                                   Documentof
                               The World Bank


                                                    ReportNo.: 34595




             PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                            INLANDWATERWAYS
                              (CREDIT 3910-CHA)


                                December5,2005




Sector, Thematic and GlobalEvaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan Renminbi (CNV

1995                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.35
1996                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.31
1997                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.29
1998                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.28
1999                                      CNY 8.28
                                          CNY 8.28
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
2000
2001                                      CNY 8.28
2002                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.29
2003                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.29
2004                      US$1.oo         CNY 8.29


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
DWT                       Deadweight tons (weight of a ship including cargo)
ERR                       Economic rate o f return
F D I C                   FCdCrationInternationale d'IngCnieurs-Conseils
FRR                       Financialrate ofreturn
Guangxi Province          Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
GCD                       NationalElectricity Grid
GWh                       Gigawatt hours (=lo00 KWh)
GXWCDC                    Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction and Development Corporation
HPCD                      HunanProvincial Communications Department
HXNCDC                    HunanXiangjiang Navigation Construction andDevelopment
                          Corporation
IBRD                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IEG                       IndependentEvaluation Group
IWW                       InlandWaterways
MOTC                      MinistryofTransport andCommunications
P A 0                     Project Administration Office
PPAR                      Project Performance Assessment Report
Rmb                       Renminbi; Chinese Yuan (currency)
S A R                     StaffAppraisal Report
TEU                       TwentyFoot Container Equivalent
ZPPWA                     Zhejiang Provincial Port and Waterways Administration


FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Evaluation                             : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank             : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation          :   Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                             :   Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                             i


m n h a n c i n gdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.                             I
 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank`sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, IEGannuallyassessesabout 25 percentof
 the Bank`s lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative, large, or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEG.To prepare
 PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEGstudies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank`s
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


Aboutthe IEG RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/OED/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project`s objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project'sobjectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefitsat least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainabilify:The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate,which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ..............................................................................................................    iv

Key StaffResponsible                ......................................................................................................   iv

Preface   .................................................................................................................................   v

Summary      ..........................................................................................................................      vu
                                                                                                                                              ..

1 Background
 .                       ..................................................................................................................   1

        Project Objectives.................................................................................................... 3
         Sub-project Components and Costs.,.......................................................................                            3

2 Results
 .             ...........................................................................................................................    4
        Zhejiang ProvinceProject (River ports 'of Hangzhou, Jiaxing and Huzhou) ..........4
         Guangxi ProvinceProject......................................................................................                       10
3 Ratings
 .              ........................................................................................................................     14

        Outcome.................................................................................................................             14
        Relevance...............................................................................................................             14
        Efficacy ..................................................................................................................          15
        Efficiency ................................................................................................................ 15
        Institutional Development Impact.,........................................................................                           16
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................             17
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                   18
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      19
4.  Conclusionsand Lessons                     ...........................................................................................   19

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................    22

Annex B ProjectStatistics
           .                               ..............................................................................................    25

TableB2InlandWaterway ProjectERRSummary                                                 .................................................... 26




This reportwas preparedbyPeterFreemanand Thomas Kennedy. who assessedthe projectin June 2005.
The reportwas editedbyWilliam Hurlbut. andRomaynePereiraprovidedadministrative support.

                                                   iv


PrincipalRatings

                                                       ICR*            ICR Review*            PPAR
Outcome                                           Satisfactory          Satisfactoj         Satisfactory
Sustainability                                        Likely               Likely              Likely
Institutional Development Impact                   Substantial          Substantial          Substantial
Bank Performance                                  Satisfactory          Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                              Satisfactory          satisfactory        Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.



Key StaffResponsible

Project                        TaskManager/Leader              Division Chief/        Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
 Appraisal                      Mohammed Rasheed              Richard Scurfield        Nicholas C. Hope
 Completion                      Toshiro Tsutsumi            Jitendra N. Bajpai         Yukon Huang

                                              V



Preface

        This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) preparedbyIEGfor
the China:InlandWaterwaysProject (Loan 3910-CHA). The loanwas approved on
June 20, 1995 for an amount o f US$210million equivalent. The Chinese Government
(central government, provinces, and municipalities) was to provide an additional
US$319.3 million and a Chinese bank was to provide a further US$27.5 million. The
borrowers were the Departments o f Communications o fZhejiang, Hunan, and Guangxi
provinces, and their allocations were guaranteed by the People's Republic o f China. The
date o f loan effectiveness was November 29, 1996, and the loanwas closed on schedule
on June 30,2001, with US$185.9 milliono f the funds disbursed. An amount o f US$24.1
millionwas cancelled. The unusedportion o f the loan resulted from savings due to
competitive biddingfor power generation units inGuangxi Province.

        The project was chosen for assessment because it was the first Bank loan for the
inlandwaterway sub-sector inChina andbecause it i s one o f only a few such projects
funded by the Bank worldwide. The project consisted o f separate subprojects ineach o f
the three provinces.

        IEGpreparedthis report based on an examination o fthe relevant StaffAppraisal
Report (SAR), Implementation Completion Report (ICR), legal agreements, project files
and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers.
Discussions were also held with a number o f existing and former Bank staff in
Washington DC, as well as inChina. An IEGmission visited China inJune 2005,
conducted site visits, and discussed both the project and the effectiveness o f Bank
assistance with government officials and stakeholders. Their kindassistance is greatly
appreciated.

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the PPAR was sent to relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were
received.


                                               vii


 Summary

          China has benefited from one o f the highest sustained growth rates inthe world
 over the last 25 years, but the pace at which infrastructure can be provided has not always
 matched this extraordinary growth. Nevertheless, the transport network is extensive and
 expanding rapidly. Inlandwaterways are particularly attractive for bulk transportation
 because they are environmentally friendly, andthe China InlandWaterwaysProject
 (Loan 3910-CHA) was an opportunity to establish a platform for future similar projects
 elsewhere. An interesting feature is the dual nature o f the project - to improve waterway
 capacity by constructing dams that could also be used for power generation.

          Inthe case ofthe HunanandGuangxi provinces the project aimedto improveport
 facilities and construct ship locks around the dams. Sources o f income from the project
 were expectedto include sales o f electric power and fees paidby vessel owners for
 passage through the ship locks. The Bank also supported the expansion o f capacity and
 modernization o f the facilities inthe Zhejiang province, which hadno power generation
 component. The three provinces were selected because o f their potential for economic
 growth, the expectations o f traffic increases along their inlandwaterways, and the year-
 round navigability o f these waterways. Ineffect the scheme ineach o f the three provinces
 was a separate sub-project, but as the objectives were common it made sense to package
 the sub-projects into one aggregate project under a single loan.

         The project had five specific objectives: to (i)improve inlandwaterway
management through organizational and financial reforms; (ii)      expand waterway capacity
by constructing dams to increase the water level and deepen channels to improve
navigation; (iii) improve connections between waterway and landtransport bybuilding
new and equippingexisting ports; (iv) generate hydroelectric power by using waterway
dams (Hunan and Guangxi); and (v) enhance the capabilities o f the waterway
management entities inthe three provinces.

         The outcome o f the project i s rated as satisfactory. Construction o f all planned
infrastructure was completed to a highstandard, but traffic to some o f the transfer port
facilities didnot materialize inthe volumes expected due to changes inthe market
following the deregulation o f the transport sector. There was also some delay in
compensation payments to residents affected by the creation o f the reservoir inGuangxi
Province, but all o f these payment issues have now been resolved. No safeguard
contraventions were recorded and a good overall rate o f return o f 22 percent was
achieved for the project. Average vessel size increased and power output from the dams
equaled or exceeded projections. The assessment considers the objectives o f the project
fully achieved.

         The institutional development impact i s rated substantial.The project has ledto
the development o f two corporatized entities responsible for the implementation o f the
project inGuangxi andHunanprovinces, where a power generation component was
included. InZhejiang Province, the project was implemented by a Project Administration
Unito ftheZhejiang ProvincialPort andWaterways Administration andthe repayment o f
the loanwas effected through the provincial treasury; control systems for quality o f work,

                                              viii


timingandpayment were inaccordance withthe Federation Internationale d'hgknieurs-
Conseils (FIDIC) conditions, and dam safety panels were set up under the project and
continue to be used for similar projects o f this nature.

        The assessment considers the sustainability o fthe project likely.With the
improvedinfrastructure inplace, a competitive tariff structure for inlandwaterway
transport as well as a strong income base from sale o f electric power, the project enables
the provinces to benefit from both these income streams. The training component was
also successfully completed, increasingthe likelihood o fproject sustainability. Several
progressive ideas and innovative concepts were developed as a result o f this training.

       Bankandborrower perfonnance are rated satisfactory.Preparationo fthe project
took about 31months. However, the result was a project that was successfully
implemented andresulted ina sustainable stream o fbenefits. The implementation
organizations ineach province coordinatedwell with Bank staff and prepared the project
consistent with Bank regulations.

Lessons Learned

    9 Inland waterways can be an eficient and environmentallyfYiendly transport mode
       for bulk goods conveyance where the market demand is strong and when such
       projects are developed incoordination with the other modes o f transportation.
       Additional benejts can be derived when dams constructed to deepen water
       channels are also usedfor hydro-electric power generation. Insuch cases a
       separate corporate entity is required to operate the facility effectively.

    9 A thoroughassessmentof both themarket and the risks in the realization of trafic
       projections is essentialfor inland waterwayprojects. Traffic forecasts and
       monitoring indicators should be analyzed carefully and the risks assessed
       thoroughly duringpreparation.

   9 Inland waterwayprojects should consider the inclusion of guidelines to encourage
       andexpedite the modernization process o f shippingusingthe waterways, inorder
       to help ensure that vesselfleet eficiency keepspace with the level of service
       provided by the improved infrastructure.



                                                             Vinod Thomas
                                                             Director-General
                                                             Evaluation

 1.     Background

 1.1      Since 1980, China has had one o f the highest sustained rates o fper capita income
 growth inthe world. Per capita GDP (at constant prices) doubledbetween 1980 and
 1990; thendoubled again between 1990 and 2000. The sustained stability inChina's
 economy throughout this period o fhighgrowth i s generally attributed to the gradual
 approach to reform inChina inwhich institutional changes have preceded or
 accompanied policy changes.

 1.2      Despite these dramatic economic growth statistics, some shortcomings are being
 urgentlyaddressedbythe government as well as through project implementationby
 internationalfinancial institutions. Such shortcomings include inequality o f development
betweenregions and environmental degradation. The outcomes ofthe ChinaInland
 VatenuaysProject indirectly relate to both o f these issues, although they were not part o f
the project objectives.

 1.3      Strong economic growthhas beenconcentrated primarily inthe coastal
provinces, as it has beeninthese regions that economic reforms and strong economic
development have taken place duringrecent years. Many of the inlandprovinces face
risingunemployment and increasing social tensions between the people and the
government. This rising disparity inregional growth has adversely affected China's
otherwise admirable progress inpoverty reduction. Between 1990 and 2000 the number
o fpeople living on the equivalent o f one dollar a day fell by 170million; while during
the sameperiodthe population increasedby 125 million. Over the past 20 years, China
has accounted for nearly 75 percent o fpoverty reduction inthe developingworld.

 1.4     Withregard to the environment, China's air andwater quality are a cause o f
concern; seven of the ten most polluted cities inthe world are loiated inChina.
Appropriate investmentprojects which include economically stagnant regions and which
support environmentally favorable transport modes clearly assist the easing o f these
economic inequalities and helpreverse the trend o f degradation o f the environment.

1.5      Chinahas an extensive transport network o f railways, highways, waterways, and
ports, but this network remains unable to fully meet all the needs o f its rapidly growing
economy. Evenwith recent increasesinthe country's highway andrailway networks,
lack o ftransport capacity continues and a highpriority i s placed on alleviating
congestion.

1.6      Inlandwaterways, taking advantageo f existing large navigable rivers, are an
important element o fthe transport system. They are a cost-effective transport mode for
bulkygoods such as agriculturalproducts, buildingmaterials, coal, andother
commodities over medium to long distances. The waterways also have an environmental
advantage, with a low fuel consumption rate per unit-kilometer hauled compared with
other transport modes. Nevertheless, China's once extensive waterway network has, over
time, been reduced from 172,000 kilometers in 1961to approximately 110,000

                                                    2


 kilometers today due to underinvestment, removal of some sections o f the network, and
 constructiono f dams without ship locks (effectively eliminating waterway transport on
 some rivers).

 1.7      The project assessedinthis PPARwas intendedto stem the trendtowards a
 diminishingwaterwaynetworkby expanding capacity andmodernizingthe waterways of
 Zhejiang, Hunan, and Guangxiprovinces. These provinces were selected for the project
 becauseo f their potential for economic growth, the expectations o ftraffic increases along
 their inlandwaterways, and the year-round navigability o fthe waterways concerned.
 Guangxi has the highest incidence o f poverty among the three provinces' with nearly 35
percent o f its counties designated as "poverty counties". Per capita income during 2004
was Rmb 5,944 inZhejiang, Rmb 2,838 inHunan, and Rmb 2,305 inGuangxL2Although
 the latter provinces were not the poorest areas inChina, they had substantial navigable
waterways and met the criteria for inclusion. Through this mix o fprovinces, the project
 contributedto the government's objective o f reducingthe development imbalance
between the fast-growing coastal provinces and the less prosperous inland regions.

 1.8      InZhejiang, the needto removewaterwaybottlenecks hadlong ago been
identified. Some construction projects innearby Shanghai hadbeeninterruptedbecause
o f delays inthe transportation o f construction materials from Zhejiang, while a local
power planthad on occasion ceasedoperations for lack o f coal. Botho f these key
commoditieswere carried by the inlandwaterway system. InHunanand Guangxi, the
project was designedto improve shippingchannels on the Xingjiang (a tributary o f the
Yangtze River, and the Xijiang, which flows into the Pearl River to Guangzhou). An
interestingfeature inthese provinces was the dual nature ofthe project to improve
waterway capacity by constructing dams that could also be usedfor power generation.

1.9       Theproject aimed not only at improving infrastructure along the waterways but
also at improving the organization andmanagement o f the waterway network. Market
reforms already begunby the government were strengthenedand deepenedthrough the
implementation o f the project.

1.10      The rationale for the Bank's involvement was fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, discussed by the Boardin 1995. This strategy
aimed to help alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks, reduce poverty, safeguard the
environment, and introduce macroeconomic and structural reforms. Although this was
not an explicitly poverty-focused project, the benefits would clearly help to reduce
imbalances between Hunan, Guangxi and the better-off coastal provinces.

1.11      Nineprevious Bank-fundedhydro projects inChinahave demonstrated the need
to enhance implementationquality and accelerate sector and enterprise reform to increase
efficiency. Based onprevious experience this project provided for technicalpanels
responsible for ensuringdam safety and for assisting inreaching agreement on adequate

1.Analysis and Evaluation of thePresent Situation of Socioeconomic and Rural Roads in China'sMajor
Poverty Stricken Area, State DevelopmentPlanningCommission, Beijing, November 1998.
2. China Statistical Abstract; 2005.

                                                        3


 pricing o fpower suppliedby the project. The panels provedto be highly successful in
 both Hunan and Guangxi andthe concept will be continued for similar projects inthe
 future.The Project


 Project Objectives

 1.12       The project had five objectives: to (i)      improve inlandwaterway management
 through organizational and financial reforms; (ii) waterway capacity by
                                                              expand
 constructing dams to increase the water level and deepenchannels to improve navigation;
 (iii)improve connections betweenwaterway andlandtransport bybuildingnew and
 equippingexistingports; (iv) generatehydroelectric power byusingwaterway dams; and
 (v) enhance the capabilities ofthe waterway management entities inthe three provinces.
 The objectives generally apply to project components ineacho fthe three provinceswith
 the exception o fZhejiangProvince, where the project didnot include dam constructionor
 power generation facilities. I t should benotedthat, except for the last objective the focus
 was on outputs rather than outcomes.

 1.13       The project financing plan, amounting to US$ 556.8 million, consisted of a
 US$210 million loan from the Bank,US$319.3 million from government (central
 government, provinces, andmunicipalities) and US$27.5 million from a localbank loan;
 the actual cost was US$592.4 million, or six percent higher than the appraisal estimate,
primarilydue to increasedcivilworks andresettlement costs inHunanandZhejiang
provinces.

 1.14       The loan from the Bank was to cover the fareign exchange portion o ftotal
project cost. Only US$185.9 milliono f the Bank loanwas disbursed, however, primarily
becauseo f savings from competitivebiddingfor the power generation units inGuangxi;
US$24.1 millionwas cancelled.

Sub-projectComponentsand Costs

Table 1: InlandWaterways Sub-projectComponentsandTotal Costs

                                   Components                                      Total Project Costs
                                                                                     (US$ millions)
                                                                                   Appraisal    Actual
Guangxi: Construction of dam and ship lock at Guiping channel, improvement of       246.4        229.0
the Xijiang channel, and installation of power generation facilities at the dam.
Technical assistance, training, land acquisition, and resettlement.
Hunan: Construction of dam and ship lock at Dayuandu, channel improvement of        211.8        237.7 .
the Xiangjiang waterway, installation of hydropower generation facilities at the
dam, and expansion of two ports, Hengyang and Zhuzhou. Technical assistance,
training, land acquisition, and resettlement.
Zhejiang; Improvement of four major waterway channels and construction of           98.6         125.7
three river ports at Huzhou, Jiaxing, and Hangzhou to link with land transport.
Technical assistance, training, land acquisition, and resettlement.
Total cost                                                                          556.8        592.4

                                              4




 1.15     Three independent sub-project components were separately located inGuangxi,
 Hunan,andZhejiangprovinces (the percentage shares incomponent costs are shown in
 brackets ineach case). The Guangxi components included construction o f a dam, ship
 lock and channel improvement (5 1.O percent), power generation and ship lock equipment
 (27 percent), technical assistance andtraining (12.5 percent), and land acquisitionand
 resettlement (9.5 percent). The Hunan components consisted o f construction o f a dam,
 ship lock, channel improvement andterminals at two ports (55.1 percent), power
 generation and ship lock equipment (34.0 percent), technical assistanceand training (4
 percent), and land acquisition andresettlement (6.9 percent). The Zhejiang components
 comprised channel improvements and construction works at three ports (66.0 percent),
 supply o f equipment for port operation (2.7 percent), technical assistanceandtraining
 (1.9 percent), as well as land acquisition andresettlement (29.4 percent).

 1.16     Exogenous events ledto unavoidable increases insome project costs. Heavy
 flooding inthe Hunan and Guangxi provinces during 1996, delayed project
 implementation and requiredmodification o fthe dam designs to increase reinforcement
 works and raise the level o fthe cofferdams. InZhejiang, the channel design was modified
 andupgradedto allow passageof larger vessels of 500 dwt andto beconsistent with the
 standards inneighboring Jiangsu Province. Landacquisition and resettlement costs were
 also increased to add embankment protectionthat would reduce inundated landin
reservoir areas.



2.      Results

Zhejiang Province Project (River ports of Hangzhou, Jiaxing and Huzhou)

Objective I:Improve waterway management by introducing organizationa1 and
financial reforms in line with the market economy

2.1      The implementationo fthe project was the responsibility o f a Project
Administration Office (PAO) within the Zhejiang Provincial Port and Waterways
Administration (ZPPWA). A development corporation similar to that inHunanand
Guangxi provinces was not established inZhejiangbecausethe Zhejiang project didnot
include dam andpower generation capability.

2.2      Income from waterway transport inZhejiang consists o f four elements: (i)
waterway maintenance fees (57 percent); (ii)  transport management fees (14 percent);
(iii) servicesfees(18percent),and(iv)vesselfees(11percent).Historically,the
    port
waterways were subsidized by the province so there was little incentive to collect
additional revenue, but the tariff systemwas radically overhauled andmade self-
financing under the inlandwaterways project. Financialmanagement and accounting
practices were upgraded to conformwith internationalbest practice. By 2004, the total

                                                5


incomehadrisento Rmb 290.3 million (about US$35 million). This canbe compared
with operating costs o fthe waterways systemthat amounted to Rmb 108.3 million(about
US$13 million), indicating a strong financial performance by the waterways system in
2004 inthe province. Proceeds from these charges are collected by the local
municipalities and deposited inthe general revenue account o f the province. Funds
neededfor the operation andmanagement ofthe waterways arerequestedbythe Port and
Waterways Administration from the provincialtreasury and are not directly linkedto
revenue.

2.3      The overall financial performance o fHangzhou was satisfactory with operating
and working ratios within an acceptable range (40-60%). Jiaxing and Huzhou showed
less revenue than anticipated and short-term liquidity problems, but profitabilitywas
better than expected.

2.4      Figure 1shows trends inincome andexpensesofwaterway charges onthe 190
kilometers o fwaterways improved under the Inland Waterway Project inZhejiang. It can
be seenthat the profitability increased markedly after project completionin2001.




                                Figure 1: Zhejiang Province:
                      Profitability of lWWl Waterways (Rmb millions)




                                                                     -.-._Expenses
                                                                            Income




2.5      The operation o fthe port facilities inHangzhouimproved under the project i s
also now the responsibility o f a private company, a move inline with both borrower and
Bankobjectives to increase therole oftheprivate sector inthe emergingmarket-driven
economy. Formerly, the HangzhouPort Services CompanyLtd. was partially ownedby
the government, but inJune 2004, with the encouragement of the government, the
company became ajoint stock company, with 40 shareholders and no government
participation. This company is making a profit (annual revenues o f about Rmb 50 million
andcosts ofRmb40 million) on its operations, including chargingfull depreciation for
assets. Similar options (not part o f the project) are under consideration for Jiaxing and
Huzhou. The assessmentconsiders this objective to befully achieved.

                                                    6


Objective 2: Expand waterway capacity by widening and deepening channels to
improve navigation

2.6        A total of 190.3 kilometers of canal channelswere reconstructed; 140kilometers
were reconstructed to Class 43and 50.3 kilometers to Class 5.4Inaddition, 49 bridges
were constructed.

2.7        Three channels were improved to Class 4 standard: Beijing-Hangzhou Canal,
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel, and the downstream section o fthe Changxing-Huzhou-
Shanghai Channel. Reconstructionwas originally intendedto be to Class 5 standards, but
the standardwas upgraded to Class 4 to be consistent with the standards inneighboring
Jiangsu Province. Two channels were improvedto Class 5 standard: Zhapu-Jiaxing-
Suzhou Channel and the upstream section o fthe Changxing-Huzhou-ShanghaiChannel.

2.8        These channel improvements have catalyzed a strong increase inaverage vessel
size on the waterways o f the province. Figure2 shows that the average vessel size has
increased steadily since 1995 strengthening the economic benefits o fmovingbulk goods
inlargevessels.


                                   Figure 2: Zhejiang Province:
                              Average Capacity of Vessel (net tons)




                                                                                 Hangzhou   '
                                                                          .......Jiaxing
                                                                          -.-._Huzhou
                                                                                            ~




2.9        At a locationbetweenHangzhou and Jiaxing, anew 3 kilometer-longwaterway
was also constructed to avoid a low bridge that was limitingtraffic on the old channel.
Thebridgewas ahistorical monument and couldnot be dismantled, but was the cause o f
manywaterway accidents as the structure narrowed the effectiveusableportion ofthe
channel. The assessment considers this objectivefully achieved.

Objective 3: Improve connections between waterway and land transport services

2.10      Port infkastructure was improved inHangzhou, Jiaxing, andHuzhouto permit
more efficient transfer to landtransport. These investmentswere conceived when China


3. Class 4 channel accommodates vessels up to 500 tons carrying capacity.
4. Class 5 channel accommodates vessels up to 300 tons carrying capacity.

                                                7


had strong centralplanninginthe transport sector, throughwhich traffic was "directed"
to eachmode. Duringproject implementation, the market changed overnight when each
mode became free to compete for traffic. This deregulation affected the usage o fthe ports
and hence the type o f facility required.

2.11      InHangzhouthe originalintentionwas to buildabulkmaterials transfer port
primarilyfor sand. However, duringproject implementationthe ZPPWA realizedthey
should construct port facilities suitable for handling steel products. This modificationwas
carried out (withBank approval) and the facility handledapproximately 1.5 million tons
o f steel bars in2004. It was estimated that the steel berthconstructed underthe project
now accounts for about 40 percent o f all steel handled at Hangzhouport; the total
quantityofsteelmovedduring2004 was approximately 3.75 milliontons, while the S A R
estimate was 3.3 milliontons by 2000.

2.12      In Jiaxing andHuzhouthe funds from the InlandWaterways Projectwere used
to construct coal transfer facilities. The Jiaxing coal facility was later sold, however,
following the radical market changes andthe government has usedthe sale proceeds to
modifythe terminal to handle grain. It will commence operations shortly. InHuzhou, the
Bank financed a coal transfer facility, construction o f a warehouse, and handling
equipment for the transfer of commodities from railto river androadtransport. During
2004 the IEGmission found that a modest 325,000 tons were beinghandledby the Bank-
financed component ofwhich 162,000 tons were coal. The grain terminal was still under
construction.

2.13      While the facilities are not now beingusedintwo o f the three ports as originally
envisioned, they will be usedproductivelyinventures that support increased competition,
animportant element ofthe transitionof China's market economy. The Borrower and the
Bank deserve recognition for their adaptability and resourcefulness inthe circumstances.
Currently only at Hangzhouare the traffic projectionsbeingmet infullbecauseo f these
unforeseen circumstances, but the imminent opening o fthe grain terminal at Jiaxing and
changes inoperations at Huzhou are expected to increase traffic handledat these
terminals substantially. The assessmenttherefore considers this objective modestly
achieved.

Objective4: Generatehydroelectricpower by using waterway dams

2.14      The project inZhejiang Provincedidnot include a component for dam
construction or electric power generation. Therefore the evaluation o f this objective i s not
applicable inthis province.

Objective5: Enhance the capabilitiesof waterway management entities

2.15      Overseas training comprising 121.5 person-months for 141persons was carried
out. This training resulted inseveral important changes to the ZPPWA approach to the
water transport business. Examples include a pilot development o f container transport by
waterway and the introductiono f landscaping along the banks o f the waterways.

                                               8


 2.16      Although the container pilot project i s still inthe initial stages, during2003 a
 total o f 10,000 containers (TEUs) were already beingmovedthrough the ports o f
 Hangzhou, Jiaxing, and Huzhou. Facilities for handling containers at these ports are now
 under improvement (not part ofthe Bank-fundedproject) andit is expected that tonnages
 will continue to increase inthe foreseeable future.

 2.17      The landscaping concept hasbeen applied along the banks o fthe canals in
 Zhejiang Province and will be continued as part o f aninlandwaterway beautification
 program. The assessmenttherefore concurs that training definitely enhanced the
 capabilities o fthe ZPPWA significantly and this objective wasfully achieved.

Hunan Province Project

 Objective 1:Improve waterway management by introducing organizational and
jinancial reforms in line with the market economy

 2.18      HunanXiangjiangNavigationConstruction andDevelopment CorporationLtd.
 (HXNCDC) was authorized bythe Hunanprovincial government and established by the
HunanProvincial Communications Department (HPCD) inNovember 1994. This state-
 owned corporation is responsible for planning, construction, and operational management
o fXiangjiang navigation infrastructure projects. Income from the power generation at the
Dayunduhydropower station hlly funds the operating costs o f the facility, administration
expenses, andrepayment o fthe debt. While the project includes the construction o f a ship
lock to enable waterway traffic to pass the dam site, it i s the policy o f HPCD not to
impose ship lock charges on vessels. The reasoning i s to promote waterway traffic on the
Xiangjiang and becausethe power generation provides a good source o f income to
finance the ship lock construction costs and operating expenses. This strategy was agreed
withthe Bank duringimplementationo fthe project.

2.19       The HXNCDC's finances haveresultedinaprofitable positionand acceptable
operating ratios. The IEGmissionreported that the operating ratio has improved
consistently since 2000 and that the working ratio has increased slightly; both ratios are
within an acceptablerange. (See Annex B, Table Bl).Financialmanagement and
accounting practices conforming to internationalstandards were introduced. The
assessmentconsiders this objectivefully achieved.

Objective 2: Expand waterway capacity by widening and deepening channels to
improve navigation

2.20      Theprimarycomponent ofthe project was the construction o f a dam, ship lock,
powerhouse, and dam-crest highway bridgeon the Xingjiang at Dayuandu, some 62
kilometers downstream o fHengyang. Behind the Dayuandudam, the water level was
raised, making the channel deeper andwider. With the completiono fthe Zhuzhou dam
byAugust 2006, the section o fthe Xiangjiang betweenDayuandudam and Zhuzhou will
bewider and deeper as well. This improvement intheriver transport system canbe seen
inthe increased averagenet tons pervessel. From 1999to 2004, the averagenet tons per
vessel increased by approximately 10percent, from 176net tons to 192net tons. During

                                                                         9


 the early 1 9 9 0 the Xiangjiang south ofChangsha couldnot accommodate vessels
                   ~ ~
 greater than 1,000 tons capacity. Now, with the completiono fthe Dayuandudam, as well
 as other river improvements under other projects, vessels o f over 1,000 tons can navigate
 as far south as Henyang.

 2.21      A total of4.38 milliontons was movedalongthewaterway throughthe ship lock
 during2004; traffic inprevious years is shown inFigure3. It canbe seen that the
 completion o fthe project resulted ina markedincrease inthe number o f vessels. This has
 held steady duringthe last few years and there has beena marginal increase inthe total
 net tons carried, aresult o f the increasing vessel size on the waterway. Major
 commoditiesmoving throughthe ship lock are shown inAnnex B, Figure B1.The
 assessment considers the objectivefully achieved.

          I            Figure 3: Vessels and NetTons passing through
                                                                                                                                ~




                                                       Dayuandu Shiplock

         1
                                     #..................................
         ~
           25000
           20000
           15000                                                                                           Number of Vessels
           10000                                                                                    .......Net Tons (000)
         1                                                                                                          .  .
            5000        ......................................
                0     - - - - - _ - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                          - -                                                     -*
                     ~




Objective 3: Improve connections between waterway and land transport services

2.22       Theproject includedport improvements at Zhuzhou andHenyang, specifically,
the addition ofone berthat theport ofZhuzhou and two berths at the new port o f
Henyang.Primary commodities handled at theport o fZhuzhou are containers, and at
Henyang, timber andbuildingmaterials. At both locations, the inlandmovementof goods
i s by road transport. During2004, traffic handledat the Henyangport amounted to
13,750 cubic meters o ftimber and 6,700 tons o fbulk commodities; at Zhuzhou, a total o f
8,655 TEUs were handledduringthe same period.

2.23       Theports o fZhuzhou and Henyangare operated bythe administrative entities o f
their respective municipalities. Fundsusedfor upgradingthese portswere from the
domestic funding component o f the InlandWaterway Project. Includedinthe Monitoring
Indicators o f the S A R are year 2000 port tonnages for Henyang and Zhuzhou o f 4.3 and
3.3 million tons, respectively. As the HXNCDC does not have full authority over each
individualport along the river at these municipalities, the PPAR mission was unable to
obtain comparative tonnage data. However, port improvements were completed andthe
ports are functioning as planned, the assessment therefore considers this objective
substantially achieved.

                                                  10


 Objective 4: Generate hydroelectricpower by using waterway dams

 2.24      The powerhouse has four through-flow bulbturbine generator units, eachwith a
 capacity o f 30 megawatts with a total capacity o f 120megawatts, the average annual
 output i s 585 kilowatt hours. Electricity was generatedby the new facility beginningin
 December 1998, six months,aheado f schedule. Annual power output and income from
 the sale o fpower are showninTable 2. Inthe SAR it was projected that by the year
 2000, annual power output from the Dayuandudam would be 430 gigawatt hours (GWh);
 actual power generation was 404 GWhin2000 and has grown steadily since (except in
 2003). The amount o frainfall, which varies from year to year, affects the output that can
 beachieved. This objective essentially hasbeensubstantially achieved.

 Table 2: Power Output andIncomefromDayuanduHydropowerJunction

                            1999         2000        2001       2002        2003        2004
 Output (GWh)                160         404          487       521          458        526
 lncome(OO0 Rmb)           32,000       118,660     123,240   140,560     125,230     149,540


 Objective 5: Enhance the capabilities of waterway management entities

 2.25     Duringthe 90 person-months ofoverseastrainingprovidedfor HXNCDC staff,
 construction techniques o f dam andpower generation projects were studiedindetail. One
 uniquefeature ofsuch facilities inChinawas implementedat Dayuandu: apowerhouse
 with a removable roof. This designprovides easy access to the powerhouse facilities by
 means o f a gantry crane mountedon the dam. This construction technique increased the
 effective utilization o fthe facility, as the crane can move along the entire lengtho fthe
 damto maintainsluice gates duringoperation as well as to install generator unitswithin
 the powerhouse. The traditional designofthe powerhouse is ahighstructure, with
 difficult access. Dayuanduwas the first dam inChina to include such an innovation and
 this feature has also beenincorporated inthe designo f the dam andpower generation
 facility at Zhuzhou, due to be completed in2006.

 2.26      The trainingprovidedcritical instructionandexperience for many o fthe
younger engineers o f HXNCDC. Itresultedinthe project being successfully
implementedand some innovations indam construction, as noted above. Infact, the
construction project was awarded the National HighQuality Award o fthe People's
Republic o f Chinaby the Ministry o f Construction. The IEGmission commends this
development and considers the capability objective to befully achieved.

GuangxiProvinceProject

Objective1:Improve waterway management by introducing organizational and
financial reforms in line with the market economy

2.27      The Guangxi Xijiang Waterway ConstructionandDevelopment Corporation
(GXWCDC) is a state-owned corporation and was established in 1999by the Guangxi
Provincial Government for the purpose o f operating the Guigangship lock andpower

                                             11


generation facility as well as to undertake future navigationimprovement projects on the
Xijiang. As aresult ofthe overseastraining of GXWCDC staff, a financial system
consistent with internationalaccounting standards was established for cost control and to
establish procedures for debt repayment, project maintenance, and new project
construction. The GXWCDC finances are sound with an (after tax) profit and acceptable
operating and working ratios. (See Annex B, Table Bl). The IEGmissionreportedthat
this positivetrendhadbeenmaintainedthrough2004.

2.28     Theprimary income o ftheproject is from sales o f electric power to the Guangxi
power gridfrom the Guigangpower station. Revenue from this power has enabled the
GXWCDC to maintain financial self-sufficiency while generating sufficient cashboth for
operation as well as for loan repayments. This objective i s deemedfully achieved.

Objective2: Expand waterway capacity by widening and deepeningchannels to
improve navigation

2.29     Theprimaryfocus ofthe project was construction o f a dam, power generation
capability, and a ship lock at Guigang, approximately 110kilometers downstream from
Naming on the Xijiang. Constructiono f the damraised the water level upstreamto
permitvessels of class 3 (1,000 tons). Inaddition, channel improvements (primarily
dredgingandreefdemolition) were made over approximately 105 kilometers o fthe river
betweenGuiyang andNaming. The improvement o fthis section o fthe river was an
important component inimproving the 847 kilometers o fthe Xijiang betweenNaming
andGuangzhou. This project complemented arecentlycompleted dam and ship lock at
Guiping, 110kilometers downstream from Guigang.

2.30    Currently vessels must pay a fee o fRmb 0.40 per ton to pass through the ship
lock. The annual yield from these charges i s about Rmb 1million, or about US$120,000
(2004). Compared with income from power generation, this i s relatively minor and
discussion i s under way to possibly eliminate this charge inthe future. The policy o f
assessingship lock charges varies byprovince -Hunandoes not have such charges, but
Zhejiang does. The combination o f channel improvements and construction o fthe
Guigang dam and ship lock have resultedinsteadily increasing average vessel size. For
example, in 1998, the average vessel rated capacity passing Guigang was 132 tons; the
project was completed in2001 and by 2004 average vessel size had increased to over 250
tons. Average capacity and number o f vessels passing through Guigang ship lock are
shown inFigure 4 for 1998 through 2004.

                                                12



               Figure 4: Vessels Passing Through Guigang
                                     Shiplock


                                                                Awrage capacity

                                                         .-.-...Numberofwssels
                                                                (000)




 2.31     A negative aspectofthe results inGuangxi is that the traffic volume expected
 through the Guigang ship lock projected at appraisal o f 7.5 million tons bythe year 2000
 proved overoptimistic. To realize the projected traffic on the river, several independent
 projects unrelated to the InlandWaterway Project should have beenundertaken.
 Constructiono f a coal terminal at Baise (with a plannedcapacity o fbetween 4 and 5
 million tons per year) has not beencompleted, deprivingthe system o f a major
 intermodal transfer point from roadhailto inlandwaterway transport downstream.
 Another uncompleted project i s an additional ship lock at Xijing, whose single two-step
 ship lock and damfacility constructed duringthe 1960scontinues to be abottleneck.
 Completion o f the Naming-Kunming railway line in 1997 was expected to bring coal to
the river transshipment center for further movementby inlandwaterway but, thoughthe
railway line was constructed the transshipment facility has yet to bebuilt. Consequently,
 coal traffic that was to have movedby inlandwaterway i s now movedby rail.

2.32      Theprimary reason for delaying the constructiono fthe Baise coalterminal is the
outstanding requirementto prepare an environmental impact assessment, inaccordance
with the Chinese regulations. This study has not yet beenundertaken. The Xijing ship
lock i s under the authority o f the national electricity grid and GCD has no authority to
enforce more strict operating conditions at the ship lock. On average, the Xijing ship lock
i s opened about five times per day; the Guigang ship lock, however, i s opened 10-12
times per day. This means the waiting time i s much longer at the Xijing facility. While
the traffic projectionsfor the year 2000 were not achieved, the assessmentfinds no
element o f the project implementationor design that could have preventedthis situation.
The assessmenttherefore considers this objective modestly achieved.

Objective 3: Improve connections between waterway and land transport services

2.33     The project provided an improvedwaterway systemthat enhanced accessibility
within the regionand complimentedthe existing landtransport links intheregion,
including the newly completed (1997) Nanning-Kunming railway and the Tanlou-Baise
highway (an expressway to the northwest o fNanning funded with an Asian Development

                                                       13


  Bankloan approved in2005). While therewere no specific infrastructure improvements
  as part o f the InlandWaterway Project to facilitate intermodal linkages, the existence o f
  the improvedwaterway, with increased capacity, with other port improvement projects
 will intime make the Xijiang corridor amulti-modal linkinsouthwestern China.

  2.34     The assessment considers this objective not applicableto the specific
  components o f the project inGuangxi, though incombination with other port
  improvement projects this objective likelywill be achieved inthe future.

  Objective 4: Generate hydroelectricpower by using waterway dams

 2.35      A hydropower station with a capacity o f 120megawatts and an annual power
 output o f 600 GWhwas constructed including a 60 kilometer-longpower transmission
 line5.Inthe SAR, the target for power generation duringthe year 2000 was 555 GWh;
 actual power production during that year from the Guigang facility was 560 GWh.
 During2004, powerproductionwas 544.5 GWh, while during2003 itreached 645.7
 GWh. Annual actual power productionis variable and subject to the availability o fthe
 amount o frainresultinginhighwater levels; duringyears o f lower rainfall, generating
 capacity o fthe facility i s decreased. Taking into account the monitoring indicators
 identifiedinthe SAR, andthe power production data during recent years, the assessment
 considers this objectivefully achieved.

 Objective 5: Enhance the capabilities of waterway management entities

 2.36      Theproject included 1,228 person-months oftraining (506 person-months o f
 domestic training and 722 person-months o f overseastraining), coveringpolicy support,
 implementation support, and institutional strengthening. This training provedto be self-
 sustaining, as the persons trained are now training other GXWCDC staff.

2.37      Moreover, the training was instrumental inequippingthe GXWCDC
management for the transition to working as a corporatized entity.An important aspect o f
the trainingwas the introduction of strong financial management. Internationally
accepted accounting principleswere applied to the GXWCDC and enhancedthe level o f
both financial reporting and cost control.




5. The price paidby the power transmission organization to the GXWCDC i s 30 fenper kilowatt hour.
This price resulted from negotiations between the power supplier and transmission company. However,
such negotiated prices mustbe approvedby the Provincial Pricing Bureauand ReformDevelopment
Commission. Prices approved by these organizations are the result o f submissions by the power producing
organization demonstrating their cost o fproduction, as well as the political realities inthe region o f
establishmg a particular price for energy. There is not a uniform sellingprice o f electricity to the power
transmission company inGuangxi. For example, with the recent increase inthe price o f coal, thermal
power generating units have had higherprices approved. Inaddition, some foreignjoint venture enterprises
have also had higher rates approved, on the basis that foreign loans mustbe repaid.

                                                 14


  2.38      A further impact ofthe technical training ledto aredesign ofthe pressure oil
  pump inthe power generation facility. The original design includedcontinuous running
  o f the pump, resulting inhightemperatures and the needfor frequent water coolingto
  preventoverheating. A pump systemthat included intermittentrunning, which greatly
  reduced the need for cooling water, was implemented(the cost o fproviding this cooling
  water was reduced by two-thirds). The capabilities o fwaterway management inGuangxi
  were enhancedas aresult o fthe project andtherefore the assessment considers this
  objectivefully achieved.



  3.       Ratings

  Outcome

  3.1       The aggregate outcome o f the entire project (which comprises three sub-projects)
  i s rated satisfactory. While the five project objectives did not apply uniformly in each o f
  the three provinces, construction o fall civil works were completed, and insome cases
  standards exceededthose indicatedinthe original project specifications. Although the
  objectives are stated inoutput rather than outcome terms, reducedtransport costs, relative
  to the alternatives o froad and rail, were clearly a major outcome. This reductionwas
  derivedfrom lower transit time at ship locks andport terminals as well as economies o f
  scale from the use o f larger vessels. Table 3 summarizes the achievement o f all the
  objectives for each o f the sub-projects.

  Table 3 Summary ofthe Achievementof Objectivesinthe InlandWaterways
  Project
I Sub-project     Objl           Obj2            Obj3            Obj4           Obj5            I
  Type            Reform         Capacity        Connections     Generation     Training
  Zhejiang        ,Substantial   Full            Modest         Not Applic.     Full
  Hunan           Full           Full            Substantial     Substantial    Full
  Guanaxi         Full           Modest          Not Applic.    Full            Full
  Overall         Full           Full            Modest          Substantial    Full
  Outcome:Satisfactory
 Relevance

  3.2       The relevance o fthe project objectives is high.The infrastructureimprovements
 coupled with the organizational and financial reforms included inthe objectives are fully
 consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and Government o f
 China's commitment to transition to a market economy. The Bank's strategy inthe
 transport sector was to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks, reduce poverty, safeguard the
 environment, andintroducemacroeconomic and structural reforms. The project i s
 consistent with this strategy by (a) improving and expanding transport andpower
 generation infrastructure where supply constraints existed; (b) increasing transport

                                                  15


 efficiency by improving inter-modal linkages; (c) introducing financial and
 organizational reforms inthe inlandwaterway sub-sector aimed at commercialization of
 operations and financial independence; and although not direct project objectives, (d)
 focusing 79 percent o f project investment intwo relatively poor provinces and (e)
 promoting an environmentally preferable type o f transport.


 Efficacy

 3.3       The efficacy o f the project i s rated substantial. Most major elements o f each
 objective have been achieved ineach province, resulting inincreasedpower generation
 capability, larger vessel sizes and a more productive inlandwaterway system. There were
 differences inthe structure o f the implementing organizations: inZhejiang Province, a
 Project Administration Unitwithin the existing Zhejiang Provincial Port and Waterways
 Administration while inHunanand Guangxi, corporatized entities were created. The
 assessment finds these two different types o f organizations for implementation both
 worked according to the prevailing circumstances ineach case and didnot affect the
 quality o f implementation. InZhejiang Province investments incoal transfer facilities
 (rail-river transfer) at Huzhou and Jiaxing were not fully utilizedbecause o f the impact o f
 ongoing reforms inChina's transport sector. Overall, however, waterway traffic
 increasedinZhejiang Province and because the average size o f vessels increased, the
 realization o f project benefits was achieved.

 3.4      Interms o fachievement ofpower generationtargets as set out inthe monitoring
 indicators at appraisal, Hunan Province is close to target ( S A R estimate 430 GWhby
 2000, actual production was 404 GWh), while the Guigang DaminGuangxi exceeded
the appraisal estimate ( S A R estimated 555 GWh, actual production was 560 GWh)
during2000. Generationpotential, however, is variable depending onthe rainfall.

 3.5      Average vessel size on the waterway systems ineach province increased, though
actual traffic on the waterways was slightly lower than projected duringthe early years o f
the project (particularly inGuangxi). InZhejiang, average capacity per vessel at all three
project ports (Hangzhou, Huzhou, and Jiaxing) increased from less than 50 tons to well
over 100 tons from 1996 to 2004. InHunan average vessel capacity increased from 176
tons in 1999 to 192 tons by 2004. InGuangxi average vessel capacity increased from less
than 150 tons in 1998 to over 250 tons in2004. The forecasts o f inlandwaterway traffic
inGuangxiwere dependent uponthe completion o fother projects that subsequently were
not realized. This risk could have been more fully explored duringproject preparation.


Efficiency

3.6       The efficiency of the project i s rated substantial. The ERR for the project as
computed at appraisal was 22.1 percent, with most benefits derived from transport cost
savings from user larger vessels and from power generation. Inthe ICR, the ERRwas
recalculatedbased on actual shippingvolumes andpower sales, and was estimated to be
22.3 percent; Inthe ICR, the ERR for the Hunanproject was 16.8 percent, nearly
identical to that inthe SAR. Zhejiang showed a stronger return based on the charges on

                                               16


 vessel traffic through the ship locks rather thanthe performance o f the individual port
 facilities, while Guangxi showed a poorer performance due to unrealistic demand
 forecasts. The assessment concurs with the revisedproject ERRresults presented inthe
 ICR. (See Annex ByTable B2).

 3.7       River traffic inGuangxi has not reached the levels projected inthe S A R and the
 assessment finds that the traffic projections were overoptimistic. The reason that
 projected traffic didnot materializewas because other projects were not implemented.
 This was arisk inthe traffic forecasts for Guangxi and should havebeenhighlightedin
 the SAR. Inthis early transport project the selection o f indicators retroactivelywas rather
 weak since they were not really outcome orientated. This detracted from the ability to
 undertake effectivemonitoring and evaluation as implementationproceeded. The absence
 o f indicators concerning environmental and resettlement progress i s unfortunate.

 3.8       Onmost provincialwaterways, bothtraffic andvessel sizes have increased,
 resulting inan increase inpayments by the vessel operators. Some examples o f
 decreasing vessel operating costs per ton kilometers as vessel size increases are shown in
 Annex B, table B3.

 3.9      Receipts from sales o fpower generated from the project represent a significant
 income source for repayment o f the project loan. InZhejiang, the loanrepayment was
 made from the provincial treasury.


 InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 3.10     The institutional development impact is rated substantial.The project has ledto
the development of autonomous state-owned enterprises inboththe Guangxi andHunan
provinces which were responsible for the implementationo f the project, while in
ZhejiangProvince, theproject was implementedby a Project Administration Office
(PAO) within the Zhejiang Provincial Port and Waterways Administration. The
HangzhouPort Services Company, a privately owned company, i s operating the steel
berththat was constructed withproject funds.

3.11      Where the project includeddam construction (Hunanand Guangxiprovinces), a
Dam Safely Panelwas established for the purpose o f (i)     reviewingthe adequacy o fthe
design construction procedures o f the dam and associated structures; (ii)  preparinga
detailed planfor construction and quality assurance, instrumentation, operations and
maintenance, and emergency preparedness; and (iii)    carrying out periodic safety
inspections after completion. The Dam Safety Panel consisted o fmembers with expertise
inhydraulic structures, engineeringgeology, hydropower, resettlement, andport and
waterway engineering. All costs o fthe Dam Safety Panelare borne by local government.
Dam safety panels continue to be usedinHunanand Guangxi for similar projects and
dam safety hasnot beenanissue inthis project.

3.12      The EnvironmentalAction Plans andResettlement Action Plans were for the
most part followed and implementation was generally satisfactory. There was even an
increase inresettlement costs due to addedbankprotectionworks, which resulted ina

                                                 17


reduction inthe amount o f land inundated inthe reservoir areas andwas welcomed by the
 affected communities. More care could have been taken, nonetheless, to give more
 information on these non-engineering issues. Although the S A R states that the project as
proposed involved the relocation o f 2,295 persons there i s no informationoffered inthe
 I C R on this matter. There i s also no evidence to show that the monitoring agencies were
 satisfied with the resettlement process other thanto observe that it hadbeen
 "satisfactorily handled". Moreover, there was a temporary difficulty with the
 compensation payments to residents affected by the creation o f the reservoir inGuangxi
 Province, because inthe preliminary design, the number o f residents affected and the
 costs o f relocation were underestimated, which meant that the payment amount to each
 affected resident had to be increasedduringproject implementation. However, the IEG
mission confirmed that all relocationpayments have now beenmade satisfactorily and
the relocationprocess completed. The institutional capability o f all agencies was
 strengthened though training to handle environmental and resettlement issues inline with
 international practice. A note o f caution i s appropriate here, however, since an OED
background paper for the China Country Assistance Evaluation6observed that there was
 little evidence to support the ICR assertion that there was an adequate level o f
cooperation between the various authorities responsible for power, water and transport.

Sustainability

3.13       The assessment rates the sustainability o f the project likely. With the improved
infrastructure inplace, a competitive tariff structure for inlandwaterway transport, as
well as a strong income base from the sale o f electric power, the project enables the
province to benefit from both o f these important streams o f income. The training
component was also successfully completed, and several specific applications o f
innovations developed as a direct result o fthe training have been implemented.

3.14       The InlandWaterway Project is significant because it paved the way for the
implementation o f subsequent projects and created a platform for a long-term program o f
sustainable inlandwaterway improvements. One aspect that will require future attention,
however, is the modernization o f the shipping fleet itself, which has not been upgraded in
keeping with the infrastructure improvements; this, however, was not part o f the project.
Sustainability has been substantially enhanced by a set o f generic reforms which have
significantly improvedthe framework within which the project inlandwaterways now
operate. The first was the adoption o f financial and accounting procedures inline with
international best practice. The second was the deregulation o f transport tariffs which
were deregulated step by step. At first, the tariff was fully regulated, then it became
negotiable within a range o f 20 percent o f the tariff at the start o f the project and, finally,
fullderegulationwas accomplished. The last umbrellareformwas introducedbythe
Ministry o f Power and ensured that the price o f power was gradually adjusted untilit
reflected the true market price.



6. The World Bank and China's Environment, 1993-2003; OED BackgroundPaper for the China Country
Assistance Strategy, 2003.

                                                        18


 Bank Performance

 3.15       Bank performance i s ,rated satisfactory. Preparation o f the project was fairly
 lengthy at 31months from the identification through appraisal, but this was the first
 project o f this type for the Bank inChina. A good mix o f team members was achieved
 with wide specrum of specialized skills. The project was as a result successfully
 implemented and yielded a sustainable stream o f benefits.

 3.16       Since the Bank hadbeen active inthe railway sub-sector inChina and hadbeen
 promotingthe implementation o f market reforms to enable the railway to actively
 compete for profitable traffic, the redundancy o f inter-modal terminals at Huzhou and
 Jiaxingprobably should have been foreseen duringthe identificationphase o fthe project.

 3.17       The Bank monitored implementation appropriately, and ensured conditionality
 and safeguard compliance. It also ensured that competitive tendering procedures were
 followed and that the FIDIC conditions and supervision system were used. Ensuring
 compliance was made easier because the same core team was retainedthroughout from
 preparation to completion and this enabled the team to buildtrust with the client
 agencies. Seven separate supervision missions in 1998, however, does appear excessive
 and it may have been more efficient to have combined some o f these visits.

 3.18      Duringthe PPARmissioninGuangxi, an issue was raisedbythe Deputy
Director o f GXWCDC regarding procurement regulations under Bank projects. The
 existing regulations specify that payments are made for procurement based on 10 percent
prepayment, 80 percent upon delivery and 10percent upon completion. The Deputy
Director made the comment that many suppliers inChina have other financiers that pay
on more favorable terms (i.e., more money inthe early stages o f the procurement
process). An alternative payment schedule o f 10percent advance payment; 20 percent
after design; 20 percent uponpurchase o f materials; 40 percent upon delivery and 10
percent upon completion. This proposal was discussed briefly with Bank procurement
staff inBeijing.'




7. The procurementoffice generallyagreedthat somemodificationsto the payment schedulefor the supply and
manufacturingofheavymachinerywere possible. The paymentschedulesuggestedbythe Bankwas 10percent upon
contract signingand submissionofperformance security;20 percent upondesignapproval andplacementoforders for
materials; 10percent uponstartingofmanufacturingofmaincomponents; upto 40 percent additionalto bepaidprior
to deliverywiththe remainderpaidupondelivery.The Bankprocurementoffice asks that suchrequestsfor payment
schedulemodificationbemadeinwritingfor consideration. Suchmodifiedpayment scheduleswill beconsidered,
providingthey reflect the actual cashflow ofthe suppliedmanufacturer.

                                               19


 Borrower Performance

 3.19      Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, as the implementation organizations
 ineachprovince coordinatedwellwithBank staffandpreparedthe project consistent
 with Bankregulations.

 3.20      The implementation agencies complied with the conditions andrequirements o f
 the legal agreements. Boththe Environmental Action Plan and the Resettlement Action
 Plans were subsequently implemented appropriately. The borrower has furthermore
 begun to develop guidelines to encourage the modernization o f vessels using the
 waterways because this aspect hadnot been considered inthe original project design and
 the services and the quality o f the ships provided was not on a par with the standard o f
 the port facilities that have now been established.



 4.      Conclusionsand Lessons

 Inland waterway transport and tariffs

 4.1      Where there are large navigable rivers inlandwaterways should be encouragedto
 thrive because they provide an extremely environmentally friendly form o f transport.
However, the tariffs must be set to ensure that such waterways are self-financing and
there should be a level playing field whereby all competing modes o f transport are
deregulated.

Organizational models

4.2       Intwo o fthe three sub-projects the improvement ofthe waterways was coupled
to a hydro-electric generation facility and the whole complex was managed as an
autonomous development corporation or state enterprise. This model was successful both
technically and financially and can be replicated elsewhere. However, the project also
showed the provincial modelwas effective as a waterway authority without the hydro-
electric component, while the waterway port was operated successfully and efficiently by
the private sector. Inother words, it is important to customize the component according
to local prevailing circumstances and requirements.

Targets and projections

4.3      The assessment concludes that the financial, power output, vessel size and
volume targets o f the monitoring indicators have been fully achieved under the project.
Traffic to individualport facilities, however, sometimes didnot always materialize inthe
volumes projected. This was due, inpart, to other facilities not being constructed, but
whose traffic contribution was included inthe forecast methodology. The forecasts were
thus optimistic. While bothBankandthe implementing agencies are to be commended
for their flexibility inaddressing such problems, there was clearly inadequate risk
analysis duringpreparation as the deregulation o f the railways was clearly on the
government's agenda.

                                               20


River shipping

4.4      The improvements inthe waterway infrastructure threw into sharp contrast the
inadequate state o f the existingriver vessels; this could be addressedas part o f a future
project. It i s clear that guidelines are necessaryto encourage the modernizationprocess o f
shippingusingthe waterways.

Lessons Learned

4.5      The following lessons may be derivedfrom this project:

    9 Inland waterways can bean efficient and environmentallyfriendly transportmode
       for bulk goods conveyance where the market demand i s strong andwhen such
       projects are developed incoordinationwith the other modes o f transportation.
       Additional benefits can be derived when dams constructed to deepen water
       channels are also usedfor hydro-electric power generation. Insuch cases a
        separate corporate entity i s requiredto operate the facility effectively.

    9 A thoroughassessmentof both the market and the risks in the realization of traflc
       projections is essentialfor inland waterwayprojects. Traffic forecasts and
       monitoringindicators, should be analyzed carefully and the risks assessed
       thoroughly duringpreparation.

   9 Inland waterwayprojects should consider the inclusion of guidelines to encourage
       and expedite the modernizationprocess o f shippingusingthe waterways, inorder
       to help ensure that vesseljleet eflciency keepspace with the level of service
       provided by the improved infrastructure.

                                                                                                                     22




 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 InlandWaterwaysProject ( Credit 3910-CHA)


                                                                                                                   Appraisal                  Actual or                          Actual as % of
                                                                                                                   Estimate        current estimate                          appraisal estimate
 Total projectcosts                                                                                                 517.5                            592.4                                       114.5
 Loan amount                                                                                                        210.0                            185.9                                        88.5
 Cofinancing
 Cancellation                                                                                                                                             24.1




                                                                                                                                                                              "..l..".l"."l.l_..""".".
                                                                                                                                                                                  Actual
"           ........._................_lll(.lll,,,.,.,,.,..  ""..l  "ll."..."ll  ........................ ..,.._ .-
                                                                                                         ..,              Original........
                                                                                                                                         _...l_._.l,.-,,-....lll.-"   ....                              ." ".."..."ll.l
 Board approval          " "                                                                                               _"          "
                                                                                                                         06/20/95                                              06/20/95
 Signing                                                                                                                 08/31/95                                              08/31I95
 Effectiveness                                                                                                           11/29/95                                              11/29/95
 Closina date                                                                                                            06/30/01                                              06/30/01




                                                                                                        No. Staff Weeks                                                   US$ ('000)
 IdentificationIPreparation                                                                                        136.4                                                   324.2
AppraisaIINegotiation                                                                                               74.3                                                   161.5
 Supervision                                                                                                       134.1                                                   340.2
 ICR                                                                                                                 2.4                                                     7.1


The supervision cost figures include the cost of trust funds.

                                                  23


 Mission Data
 Stage of Project Cycle          Date      No. of       Specializations      Performance Rating trend
                              (month/vearl Dersons        rem-esented           rating
 Identification/ Preparation     4/93        2    1 FinancialAnalyst, 1
~




                                                  PodMaritime Engineer
                                 4/93        6    1 FinancialAnalyst, 1 Port/
                                                  Maritime Engineer, 1
                                                  Economist, 1 Operations
                                                  Officer, 1 Environment, 1
                                                  OrganizationalExpert
                                 4/94        7    1 FinancialAnalyst, 2 Port
                                                  Engineers, 1 Economist, 1
                                                  Operations Officer, 1
                                                  Organizationaland
                                                  ManagementExpert, 1
                                                  Environment
 AppraisallNegotiation          11/94        11   2 FinancialAnalyst, 1 Port
                                                  Engineer, 1 Economist,2
                                                  Environment, 1 Operations
                                                  Officer, 1Organizational
                                                  and Management Expert, 1
                                                  Resettlement, 1
                                                  Procurement, 1 Staff
                                                  Assistant
 Supervision                     9/95        6    1 FinancialAnalyst, 1 Port      S           S
                                                  Engineer, 1 Resettlement,
                                                  1 InstitutionalReform, 1
                                                  Project Officer, 1
                                                  Procurement
                                 5/96        4    1 Port Engineer, 1              s           S
                                                  Economist/Financial
                                                  Analyst, 1 Environment, 1
                                                  Resettlement
                                11/96        1    1 Port Engineer                 s          S
                                 4/97        2    1Port Engineer, 1               s          S
                                                  EconomistIFinancial
                                                  Analyst
                                10197        3    1 Port Engineer, 1              s          s
                                                  Environment, 1
                                                  Resettlement
                                 3/98        2    1Port Engineer, 1
                                                  Environment
                                 5/98        1    1 EconomisffFinancial
                                                  Analyst
                                5/98         1    1 EconomisVFinancial
                                                  Analyst
                                6/98         1    Port Engineer
                                7/98         1    1 Environment
                                7/98         1    1 Resettlement
                                9/98         2    1Port Engineer, 1               S          S
                                                  Economist/ Financial
                                                  Analyst
                                1199         3    3 Resettlement (Thematic)
                                6/99         4    1 Port Engineer, 1             s           s
                                                  Economist/Financial
                                                  Analyst, 1 Resettlement, 1
                                                  Environment
                                12/99        3    1 Port Engineer, 1             S           S
                                                  EconomistlFinancial
                                                  Specialist, 1 Environment
                                1/00         1    1 Resettlement
                                1/00         1    1 Resettlement

Stage of Project Cycle      Date      No. of      Specializations  Performance Rating trend
                         (monthlyear) persons       represented       rating
                            8/00         1   1 Port Engineer            S           S
                            9/00         1   1 Resettlement
                           12/00         1   1 Port Engineer, 1         S           S
                                             Environment,1
                                             EconomistlFinancial
                                             Analyst
                            5101         1   1 Resettlement
ICR                         8101         2   1Port Engineer, 1          S           S
                                             EconomistlFinancial
                                             Analyst

                                                        25


Annex B. Project Statistics

 Table B1Achievementof SAR MonitoringIndicators
              Indicator                  Projectionfor 2000         Achievement for 2000

                             Traffic:
                            Zhejiang:
                 Hangzhou (dry bulk)              3.2 million tons                3.2 milliontons
              Huzhou (public berths)              1.Imillion tons   10.8 million tons (total port)*
               Jiaxing (public berths)             1.5 million tons   5.1 milliontons (total port)

                               Hunan
                            Henyang                4.3 million tons                            nla
                             Zhuzhou               3.3 million tons             0.083 million tons
                 Dayuanduship lock                 4.2 million tons               3.7 milliontons

                             Guanaxi
                                                   7.5 million tons               1.4 milliontons
                                       I
                     Dayuandu Dam                        430 GWh                        404 GWh
                       Guigang Dam                       555 GWh                        560 GWh

                            Zhejiang;
                        Working ratio                          57%                            61%
                      Operating ratio                          70%                            53%
                                 FRR                                                           4%
                               Hunan
                        Working ratio                          26%                             8%
                      Operating ratio                          61%                            77%
                                 FRR                                                           5%
                             Guangxi
                        Working ratio                          26%                            11%
                     Operating ratio                           40%                           50%
                                 FRR                                                           8%
                         Overall FRR                                                           6%
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report; ICK; PPAR mission. Note: Or
Henyang and Zhuzhou ports was available. There are many ind .dualports along the river at these
     - -
locations and the HXNCDC does not have full access to all port data, making a direct comparison with the
monitoring indicators difficult.




8. Detailedbreakdown for the various districts o fHuzhouport was not available during PPAR mission, but
162,000 tons o f coal was handled in2004.
9. For the portion o f Jiaxing port that was the focus o f InlandWaterway Project improvement (installation
o f coal transshipment equipment) there were no throughput tons, resulting inthe disposal o f the equipment.

                                             26


TableB2InlandWaterwav ProjectERRSummary

             SAR                    (percent)                   ICR

Guangxi   Hunan Zhejiang           Total      Guangxi        Hunan     Zhejiang Total

21.1        16.9        30.1        22.1        9.9           16.8       37.4   22.3




                                      VesselOperating Costs (US cents/t/km)
                 50 dwt 100 dwt            300 dwt        500 dwt      1000 dwt 3000 dwt
   Economic Cost 10.85          9.31       5.12           2.80         1.45     1.17
   Financial     10.12          9.87       5.59           3.15         1.70     1.69
   cost




                  Figure 61: Commodities Moving through Dayuandu
                                           Shiplock
                                        Hunan Province




        I                            Other




                      Salty fluid
                           6%

              Chemicalfertilizer
                    5%



                Nonferrous metalsY
                       13%

                                     Timber                i

                                      6%       1   1 Buildingmaterials
                                                             9%
                                               l    L
                                        Cement I            2%

