Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3910 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Inland Waterways Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 31, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3910 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1995 , between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
The Project Provinces (as defined in Section 1.02(j) of this Agreement) 
shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Project Provinces the proceeds of the Loan as  provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Company Law" means the Borrower's Company Law promulgated on December 
29, 1993 and effective as of July 1, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to 
time.
(c)
"Guangxi Province" means Guangxi-Zhuangzu Autonomous Region, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower.
(d)
"Guangxi Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement.
(e)
"Hunan Province" means Hunan Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower.
(f)
"Hunan Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(g)
"HXNCDC" means the Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and 
Development Corporation (Ltd.), a wholly state-owned company established under the 
Company Law and operating pursuant to Articles of Association dated November 21, 1994 
and approved by the Hunan Province Communications Department on November 21, 1994, and 
Business License Number 18378999-8 issued by the Hunan Province Administration for 
Industry and Commerce on November 25, 1994.
(h)
"HXNCDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Hunan Province, represented by the Hunan Province Communications Department, 
and HXNCDC pursuant to Part F.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the HXNCDC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "HXNCDC Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under 
the HXNCDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(i)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(j)
"Project Provinces" means, collectively, Zhejiang Province, Hunan 
Province and Guangxi Province; and "Project Province" means any of the Project 
Page  3
Provinces.
(k)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of:  (i) Guangxi 
Province, Part A of the Project; (ii) Hunan Province, Part B thereof; and (iii) 
Zhejiang Province, Part C thereof.
(l)
"Respective Proceeds of the Loan" means, in respect of:  (i) Guangxi 
Province, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1); (ii) 
Hunan Province, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2); 
and (iii) Zhejiang Province, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (3).
(m)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Guangxi Special Account, the 
Hunan Special Account and the Zhejiang Special Account; "Special Account" means, any 
of the Special Accounts; and "Respective Special Account" means, in respect of (i) 
Guangxi Province, the Guangxi Special Account, (ii) Hunan Province, the Hunan Special 
Account and (iii) Zhejiang Province, the Zhejiang Special Account.
(n)
"Zhejiang Province" means Zhejiang Province, a political sub-division of 
the Borrower.
(o)
"Zhejiang Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred ten million 
dollars ($210,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars the following three special deposit accounts in one or more banks acceptable 
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one for purposes of Part A of 
the Project; (ii) one for purposes of Part B thereof; and (iii) one for purposes of 
Part C thereof. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
Page  4
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause the Project Provinces to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all their respective 
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Project Provinces to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its Respective 
Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be the equivalent in 
dollars 
(determined on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods, works and services required 
Page  5
for said Project Province's Respective Part of the Project and to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan;
 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover from said Project Province, the 
principal amount so made 
available over a period of twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years; and
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge (A) interest on the principal amount so 
made available 
and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from 
time to time at a rate equal to the 
rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 
of 
this Agreement and (B) a commitment charge on the principal amount so made 
available not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that each Project Province 
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one (1) year 
after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records and 
accounts.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) 
of this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6)
months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Project Province will be able to perform its respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the HXNCDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Hunan Province and HXNCDC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
Project Province and is legally binding upon said Project Province in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
that the HXNCDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated             % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  For Part A
     of the Project:
      (a)  Goods                  56,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
    of local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    75% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
Page  8
                                                    procured locally
      (b)  Works                   4,300,000        47%
      (c)  Consultants'            1,900,000        100%
          services and
          training
      (d)  Unallocated            17,000,000
(2)  For Part B
     of the Project:
      (a)  Goods                  53,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    75% of local ex-
                                                    penditures for other
                                                    items procured locally
      (b)  Works                  26,000,000        47%
      (c)  Consultants'            1,700,000        100%
           services and
           training
      (d)  Unallocated             9,300,000
(3)  For Part C
     of the Project:
      (a)  Goods                   3,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    75% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items procured
                                                    locally
      (b)  Works                  30,000,000        47%
      (c)  Consultants'              900,000        100%
           services and
           training
      (d)  Unallocated             5,400,000
          TOTAL                  210,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  9
except that:
(a)
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$8,500,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before the date of this Agreement but after January 1, 1995; and
(b)
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$3,500,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before the date of this Agreement but after January 1, 1995.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent;
 
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent;
 
(c)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent;
(d)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; and
(e)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the organization, management and 
finances of the agencies responsible for managing inland waterways in the Project 
Provinces, expand the capacity of such waterways, upgrade the links between such 
waterways and land transportation networks and expand power generation utilizing such 
waterways.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Guangxi Province
 
(1)
Construction of a dam, shiplock, access road, bridge and administration 
buildings at Guigang Municipality, removal of shoals and construction of river 
training and inundation protection facilities between Guigang and Nanning 
Municipalities and provision of flood and lock gates and related equipment and 
telecommunications hardware, all so as to improve the navigability of the Xijiang 
River in Guangxi
Province.
(2)
Construction of a 120 megawatt capacity hydropower generation facility at the 
dam constructed under Section (1) of this Part A, installation of related transmission 
lines and provision of power generating equipment required therefor.
(3)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
finances of the agencies
responsible for management of inland waterways in Gangxi Province, consisting of: the 
development and introduction of suitable financial and cost accounting systems and a 
tariff structure for inland waterway operations designed fully to cover the costs 
thereof; the development and carrying out of a
training program for the staff of such agencies in policy and project development and 
management of project construction and supervision; and the creation of a company to 
be responsible for the management of inland waterway operations in Guangxi Province 
and adoption of appropriate operating policies and
procedures therefor.
(4)
Development and carrying out of a training program in environmental management 
Page  10
for staff of the agencies of Guangxi Province responsible for environmental protection 
of the inland waterways in Guangxi Province.
Part B:
Hunan Province
 
(1)
Construction of a dam, shiplock, access road, bridge and administrative 
buildings near Dayuandu Municipality, removal of shoals and construction of river 
training and inundation protection facilities between Dayuandu and Zhuzhou 
Municipalities, provision of flood and lock gates and related equipment, handling 
equipment, navigational aids and markers and telecommunications hardware, and 
upgrading of the port of Zhuzhou Municipality to provide a general cargo berth and 
coal terminal, and of the port of Hengyang Municipality to provide three general cargo 
berths, all in order to increase the navigability of the Xiangjiang River between 
Hengyang and Zhuzhou Municipalities and improve links between said waterway and land 
transportation systems.
(2)
Construction of a 120 megawatt capacity hydropower generation facility at the 
dam constructed under Section (1) of this Part B, including provision of power 
generating equipment required therefor, and installation of related transmission 
lines.
(3)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
finances of HXNCDC, consisting of the development and introduction of suitable 
financial and cost accounting systems and a suitable tariff structure for inland 
waterway operations designed fully to cover the costs thereof, and the development and 
carrying out of a training program for staff of HXNCDC in policy and project 
development and management of project construction and supervision.
(4)
Development and carrying out of a training program in environmental management 
for staff of Hunan Province and of HXNCDC with responsibilities for environmental 
protection of the inland waterways in Hunan Province.
Part C:
Zhejiang Province
 
(1)
Expansion and upgrading of the following four major channels, including 
construction of bridges, in order to expand their capacity: the channels from Beijing 
Municipality to Hangzhou Municipality, from Changxing Municipality through Huzhou 
Municipality to Shanghai Municipality, from Hangzhou Municipality to Shanghai 
Municipality and from Zhapu Municipality through Jiaxing Municipality to Suzhou 
Municipality.
(2)
Construction of a port in Hangzhou Municipality with bulk cargo-handling 
facilities, a port in Jiaxing Municipality with a rail-water transfer facility and a 
railway-waterway transfer terminal at Huzhou Municipality's port, all so as to improve 
links between water and land transportation systems,
and provision of cargo-handling equipment required to increase the productivity and 
efficiency of these ports.
(3)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
finances of the agencies
responsible for management of inland waterways in Zhejiang Province, consisting of the 
development and introduction of suitable financial and cost accounting systems and a 
suitable tariff structure for inland waterway operations designed fully to cover the 
costs thereof, and the development and carrying
out of a training program for staff of these agencies in policy and project 
development and management of project construction and supervision.
(4)
Development and carrying out of a training program in environmental management 
for staff of the agencies of Zhejiang Province responsible for environmental 
protection of the inland waterways in said province.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
March 1, 2001
4,040,000
September 1, 2001
4,180,000
March 1, 2002
4,330,000
September 1, 2002 
4,485,000
March 1, 2003
4,640,000
September 1, 2003 
4,805,000
March 1, 2004
4,975,000
September 1, 2004
5,155,000
March 1, 2005
5,335,000
September 1, 2005
5,525,000
March 1, 2006
5,720,000
September 1, 2006
5,925,000
March 1, 2007
6,135,000
September 1, 2007 
6,350,000
March 1, 2008
6,575,000
September 1, 2008
6,810,000
March 1, 2009 
7,050,000
September 1, 2009
7,300,000
March 1, 2010
7,560,000
September 1, 2010
7,825,000
March 1, 2011
8,105,000
September 1, 2011
8,390,000
March 1, 2012
8,690,000
September 1, 2012
9,000,000
March 1, 2013
9,315,000
September 1, 2013
9,645,000
March 1, 2014
9,990,000
September 1, 2014
      10,345,000
March 1, 2015 
      10,710,000
September 1, 2015 
      11,090,000
 
__________________________ 
*
The figure in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Section 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04(b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
Page  12
More than eleven years but not
0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not
0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before 
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of: (i) the Guangxi 
Special Account, Categories (1)(a), (1)(b) and (1)(c); (ii) the Hunan Special Account, 
Categories (2)(a), (2)(b) and (2)(c); and (iii) the Zhejiang Special Account, 
Categories (3)(a), (3)(b) and (3)(c).
(b)
The term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of each of the Special 
Accounts, the following amounts to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule:  (i) the 
Guangxi Special Account, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000; (ii) the Hunan Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000; and (iii) the Zhejiang Special Account, 
an amount equivalent to $2,000,000; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree: (i) the Authorized Allocation for the Guangxi Special Account shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals under Categories (1)(a), (1)(b) and (1)(c) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of Part A of the Project shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000; (ii) the Authorized Allocation for the 
Hunan Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals under Categories (2)(a), (2)(b) and (2)(c) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of Part B of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000; and (iii) the Authorized 
Allocation for the Zhejiang Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $700,000, until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals under Categories (3)(a), (3)(b) and (3)(c) plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of Part C of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation in respect of said 
Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of said Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  13
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into said Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Part of the Project in respect of which a Special Account was 
established, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of said 
Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation in respect of said Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for said Part of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in each Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  14
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
