Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19003
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2259-BD)
February 15, 1999
Health, Nutrition and Population Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1, 1998)
Currency Unit         Taka
Taka I     =    US$0.021
US$1.00              Taka 48.70
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI            Acute Respiratory Infection
BCG            Bacillus Calumet-Guerin (TB immunization)
BDHS           Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey
BINP           Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
BIRPHERT       Bangladesh Institute of Research for Promotion of Essential
CMMU           Construction and Maintenance Management Unit
CPR            Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CPS            Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
DfID           Department for International Developrnent (United Kingdom)
DOTS           Directly Observed Treatment-Short Course
DPT            DiphtheriaiPertussis/Tetanus
EC             European Community
FHA            Family Health Assistant
FP             Family Planning
FPHP           Fourth Population and Health Project
FWC            Family Welfare Center
HDS            Health and Demographic Survey
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPPP           Health and Population Program Project
HPSS           Health and Population Sector Strategy
HRD            Human Resource Development
HS             Health Services
IDA            Intemational Development Association (World Bank)
IEC            Information. Education and Communication
IEDCR          Institute of Epidemiology and Disease Control Research
LMIS           Logistics Management Information System
MCH            Matemal and Child Health
MIS            Management Information System
MMR            Matemal Mortalitv Ratio
MOHFW          Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Bangladesh
MR             Menstrual Rezulation
MTR            Mid Term Review
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NIPORT         National Institute of Population Research and Training
ORS            Oral Rehvdration Solution
PHO            Population and itieaitn urganization
PWD            Public Works Department
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
STD            Sexually Transmitted Disease
TB             Tuberculosis
TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
TFIPP          Thana Functional Improvement Pilot Project
TFR            Total Fertility Rate
THC            Thana Health Complex
TT             Tetanus Toxoid
UNFPA          United Nations Population Fund
USAID          United States Agency for Intemational Development
WID            Women In Development
Vice President          Mieko Nishimizu
Director                Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager          Richard Skolnik
Team Leader             Wm. Bradford Herbert



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table of Contents
Preface .................................................                                                        iv
Evaluation Summary ..................................................v
Part 1: Implementation Assessment
Introduction .................................................l1
Project Objectives ..................................................1
Achievement of Objectives .................................................l1
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................3
Implementation Experience ..................................................3
Project Sustainability ..................................................8
IDA  Performance ..................................................8
Executing Agency Performance ..................................................9
Borrower Performance .................................................                                      10
Assessment of Outcome .................................................1  1
Future Operations .................................................                                          I 1
Key Lessons Learned ..................................................11
Part II: Statistical Annexes .................................................                                    14
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .................................................                           15
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits .................................................                             16
Table 3:   Project Timetable .................................................                                17
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulated Estimated &  Actual ....................... 18
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................... 19
Table 6:  [Key Indicators for Project Operation N/A]
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project .................................................                  21
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................                                     22
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................                                 24
Table 9:  [Economic Costs and Benefits N/Al
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................                         25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational manual Statement ................................. 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................                      31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................                          32
Appendices
Appendix A. Final Supervision Mission Aide Memoire ...................................... 33
Appendix B. Borrower's Summary Project Review .............................................. 47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Population and
Health Project (FPHP) in Bangladesh (Credit 2259-BD). An IDA credit of SDR 133.2
million (US$180.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 6, 1991 and was made
effective on March 17, 1992.
The credit closed on June 30, 1998, 18 months later than the original credit closing
date. The credit amount was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place on
December 3, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Frances Plunkett and Laura Kiang, with assistance from
Philip Gowers, Jagmohan Kang, Faruque Ahmed, Humayun Hye, Shirin Jahangeer and
Aminul Haque. Cheryl Powell and Imtiaz Ahmed Rana provided office technology
assistance. The ICR was reviewed by Richard Skolnik (Sector Manager, SASHP) and
Dr. Anthony Measham (Advisor, HNP).
Preparation of this ICR began during the final review mission for the project in
June 1998. It is based on material in the project files and discussions with project staff,
Government officials, and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by carrying out its own review of project implementation and impact. Comments on
the draft report were received from the Borrower and taken into account in the final
version.
In addition to this ICR, an detailed evaluation of the project is being carried out by
the donor consortium which supported the project. The report will be titled Bangladesh
Fourth Population and Health Project End of Project Evaluation and will be finalized in
the first half of 1999.
. . 






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.  The Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHP) was the fourth in a series of
IDA-assisted projects in support of the population/health sector in Bangladesh. FPHP was
a very large project, providing support to virtually all aspects of the health and family
welfare program; in this sense it was a sector project. There were eleven co-financiers,
and additional parallel support was provided by other donors, including UN technical
agencies. IDA led a consortium of these donors. The initial credit closing date (December
31, 1996) was extended by 18 months, until June 30, 1998. The extension allowed
completion of project-supported activities in the wake of initial effectiveness and
implementation delays as well as avoidance of a gap between closure of FPHP and
effectiveness of a follow-on project, a Borrower priority.
Project Objectives
2.   The project's program impact objectives were to achieve: fertility reduction
through increased contraceptive prevalence; reduction of mortality and morbidity in
children under five; reduction of maternal mortality through improvements in maternal
and delivery care; reduction of mortality, morbidity and disability from common poverty-
related diseases; and improvement in the nutritional status of women and children.
Additionally, effectiveness and efficiency of family planning and health services were to
be improved and strategies for Women in Development (WID) and intersectoral
population activities implemented.
3.  In the light of demonstrated capacity, the ambitious objectives for family planning,
child survival and communicable disease control were not unreasonable. However, given
the limited nature of interventions to achieve reduction of maternal mortality and
malnutrition, these objectives were clearly unrealistic. Similarly, experience suggested
that anything short of fundamental system reform was unlikely to bring about desired
improvements in service delivery.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   The program achieved many of its impact objectives, most notably in the areas of
fertility decline, reduction of infant and child mortality and morbidity, and control of TB
and leprosy. Bangladesh is one of the world's poorest countries and is one of only two
such countries to have achieved substantial fertility reduction, while the TB and leprosy
v



programs are among the most effective of their kind in the world. Because of the evident
inadequacy of existing programs to address malnutrition, a separate IDA-supported
Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) was developed; BINP became effective
in 1995 and results thus far have been encouraging. Improvement in low levels of
antenatal and delivery care was not accomplished. Although reliable figures are not
available, there are no grounds for concluding that there was a decline in the high level of
maternal mortality known to exist in Bangladesh.
5.   The results of efforts to achieve improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency
of family planning and health services, chiefly through reform of the split in service
delivery between the Family Planning and Health Services Directorates, were negligible.
Due to major political upheavals around the time of appraisal, the Government then in
power was unable to undertake significant reforms. Instead, a management study,
supplemented by sub-projects to support coordination and functional integration of
service delivery, were included. The sub-projects were unsuccessful and the study was
never carried out. The experience of pilot projects gave useful pointers but also
demonstrated the need for fundamental changes in the system before sustained
improvements could be expected.
6.   An unanticipated project-supported achievement of major significance was the
preparation of a follow-on Health and Population Program Project based on project
experience as reflected in a health and population sector strategy developed in 1996-97.
This process resulted in valuable outcomes including strong political support for key
structural reforms, broad stakeholder participation in program development, and
improved planning capacity in MOHFW.
7.  Notable program achievements included a shift to use of low-dose oral
contraceptives and expansion of FP/MCH service delivery through satellite clinics;
spread of knowledge and practice concerning use of oral rehydration therapy for
treatment of childhood diarrhea; effective implementation of TB and leprosy control
programs in cooperation with NGOs; recruitment and training of some 4,500 female
Family Health Assistants; construction and staffing of an Institute of Mother and Child
Health; establishment of a Health Economics Unit in the Ministry; and timely completion
of most planned civil works.
8.   The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) probably achieved more in
the WID area than any other technical ministry in the government, although full
achievement of WID objectives will be a gradual process. To better accomplish program
objectives, support for three long-standing women's programs to achieve intersectoral
population objectives through three different government ministries was phased out in
favor of alternative arrangements, e.g. integration with NGO programs with similar
objectives.
9.   There were also some notable missed opportunities, chief of which were the failure
to achieve improvements in antenatal and delivery care that could have contributed to
reductions in maternal mortality; failure to develop a master plan for human resource
development; and failure to develop management information capacity for health services
and facilities.
vi



10. Additionally, in some areas implementation was poor: clinical family planning
methods declined alarmingly; high discontinuation rates for contraceptive methods as
well as high numbers of menstrual regulation (MR) procedures indicated an urgent need
to improve the counseling skills of field staff; high drop-out rates prevented the full
vaccination coverage rate from improving; delays in consultant recruitment and
inappropriate staffing limited the strengthening of medical institutions; facility and
equipment surveys were carried out but not utilized; and a required comprehensive
facility maintenance plan was not prepared. Delivery of FP/MCH services across the
board was constrained by the split between the Family Planning and Health Services
Directorates, and the program continued to lack client orientation.
11.  IDA performance for project preparation, appraisal, and supervision were generally
satisfactory. IDA carried out its role as the leader of the consortium, especially the
complex task of donor coordination, with a large measure of success. The lack of a sector
policy framework was evident; however, the work done for project preparation later fed
into the health and population sections of the Government's Fourth Five Year Plan. At
the request of Government and the donor consortium, IDA was instrumental in
organizing an important independent mid-term review, which facilitated improved
implementation in some problem areas and provided the basis for development of a
sector strategy and a follow-on project.
12. The Borrower took the leading role in project preparation, which was systematic
and extensive, and the resulting project proposal was clearly 'owned' by Government.
Project management was generally adequate. A Project Finance Cell in the Ministry
successfully managed accounting for the many sub-projects and preparation of
disbursement applications. Government's ability to procure in a timely fashion and in
accordance with IDA guidelines improved over the previous project. However, long-
standing inability to resolve outstanding audit observations remained at project-end. The
level of program impact achieved indicated considerable implementation capacity, for
which Government should be given full credit. Nevertheless, implementation was
significantly constrained by cumbersome and time-consuming procedures for approval
and modification of the 66 sub-projects into which project support was channeled; failure
to manage postings and transfers in a fashion to strengthen program implementation; and
delays in the release of funds.
13.  Sustainability of the achievements of the previous IDA-supported projects is a
major focus of the follow-on Fifth Project. Strong government ownership of the reform
aspects of the Fifth Project, inclusion of several measures to promote the financial
sustainability of the program, and the prospect of increased budgetary support for the
sector provide a firm basis for judging the sustainability of project investments as likely.
Key Lessons Learned
14. Key lessons learned from extensive project review beginning with the mid-term
review and continuing through preparation of the follow-on Fifth Project are summarized
as follows.
vii



a.   Although long-term commitment to the sector on the part of IDA and other
development partners will continue to be essential to the progress of the
sector, the project did not effectively address program sustainability or the
reduction of continued dependence on external financing.
b.   The IDA-led donor consortium largely achieved its aid coordination
objectives, thereby reducing MOHFW's management burden in terms of
donor relations and facilitating relatively flexible financing arrangements.
c.   The projectized approach to the utilization of donor resources was inefficient
in a variety of ways and undermined the Ministry's ability to manage its
program.
d.   The delivery of health and family welfare services through separate
Directorates continued to be inefficient and in important respects limited
effectiveness. Project-supported efforts to address the issue through
mechanisms such as functional integration failed; a fundamental structural
reform is required.
e.   Despite extremely limited public resources, pressures on Government to fund
expensive tertiary facilities and curative care proved difficult to resist. A
public sector focus on priority funding for the most cost-effective basic
services is needed.
f.   The successful delivery of services by NGOs in cooperation with
Government suggests that this approach could usefully be expanded.
All of these lessons learned were incorporated into the sector strategy and subsequently
into the Fifth Project.
Assessment of Outcome
15.  The project is rated "satisfactory." Aspects of the project, in particular some
program management, institutional strengthening and service delivery objectives, were
not accomplished. Nevertheless, given the program-wide scope of the project, the
successful implementation of many activities, the impressive progress of many outcome
and impact indicators, and the preparation of a sector strategy and a follow-on sector-
wide reform project, a "satisfactory" rating is justified.
viii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
PART I: Implementation Assessment
Introduction
1.   The Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHP) was the fourth in a series of projects in
support of the population and health sector in Bangladesh to be assisted by the International
Development Association (IDA). There were eleven co-financiers, and in addition parallel
support was provided by a number of other donors, including UN technical agencies. To
facilitate coordination of assistance, IDA led a consortium of co-financiers and other donors.
2.   The initial credit closing date (December 31, 1996) was extended by 18 months, until June
30, 1998. The extension allowed completion of project-supported activities in the wake of initial
effectiveness and implementation delays as well as avoidance of a gap between closure of FPHP
and effectiveness of a follow-on project, a Borrower priority.
3.   In addition to this ICR, an detailed evaluation of the project is being carried out by the
donor consortium which supported the project and should be available sometime in 1999.
Project Objectives
4.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) gives the following program impact objectives:
a. reduction of fertility by increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) to 45-50%;
b. reduction of mortality and morbidity in children under five;
c. improvement of maternal care and assurance of safe deliveries, thereby reducing
maternal mortality from 6-8 to 4-5 per 1,000 live births;
d. reduction of mortality, morbidity and disability from common poverty-related diseases;
e. improvement in the nutritional status of women and children.
Improved effectiveness and efficiency of family planning and health services is listed as a further
objective, and strategies for Women in Development (WID) and intersectoral population
activities are given as well.
5.   In the light of demonstrated capacity, the ambitious objectives for family planning, child
survival and communicable diseases were not unreasonable. However, given the limited nature
of interventions to achieve reduction of maternal mortality and malnutrition, these objectives
were clearly unrealistic. Similarly, experience suggested that anything short of fundamental
system reform was unlikely to bring about the desired improvements in the effectiveness and
efficiency of services.
Achievement of Objectives
6.   A summary of program achievements corresponding to the project objectives listed above
is given in Table 5 (Part II). The program achieved many of its objectives, most notably in the
areas of increased contraceptive prevalence, reduction of infant and child mortality and
1



morbidity, and successful implementation of TB and leprosy programs. Highlights are as
follows:
a. Contraceptive prevalence. Over the project period contraceptive prevalence continued
the steady increases achieved over the last two decades, rising from 40% in 1991 to 49%
in 1997. Oral contraceptives are now the most widely used method, accounting for 21%
in a total of 42% of prevalence of modem methods in 1997. Increased use of
contraception was reflected in continued fertility decline, with the total fertility rate
(TFR) declining over roughly the same period from 4.3 to 3.3. Bangladesh, one of the
world's poorest countries, is one of only two such countries to have achieved substantial
fertility reduction.
b. Child mortality/morbidity. The most recent estimates available indicate that as of
1994 both infant and young child (ages 1-4) mortality had declined to 82 and 37 per
1,000, respectively. Declines over 1989-94 were somewhat less rapid than over the
preceding five-year period but nevertheless continued substantial long-term declines,
over at least the past two decades, in infant and young child mortality. Postneonatal
mortality rates for males and females are now about equal, although rates for young
female children are still higher than those for their male counterparts. Among infants,
neonatal deaths still account for almost half, respiratory for one in three, and diarrhea for
one in ten deaths. Among young children, the situation is reversed: severe respiratory
illnesses have declined as a cause of both mortality and morbidity, while diarrhea now
accounts for one in three deaths and accidents have become significant.
c. Maternal care. Maternal care and maternal mortality objectives were not achieved.
Although coverage of tetanus toxoid (TT) immunization improved, neither antenatal
care nor delivery by trained persons increased. Reliable figures for maternal mortality
are not available, but particularly in view of limited inputs there are no grounds for
concluding that there was a decline in the high level of maternal mortality known to
exist in Bangladesh.
d. Poverty-related diseases. Substantial progress was achieved. By 1997, treatment
success for TB, a very serious problem in Bangladesh, had reached the target level of
85%, although the case detection rate was still rather low. The incidence of leprosy was
reduced by two-thirds and the case detection rate improved. The Bangladesh TB and
leprosy programs are considered to be among the most effective of their kind in the
world. However, little was accomplished by vector-borne disease (malaria, kala azar)
programs.
e. Nutrition. By 1997 almost two-thirds of children were receiving a semi-annual dose of
vitamin A. However, because of the evident inability of existing programs to address
other aspects of the country's serious malnutrition and micronutrient problems, during
the project period a separate IDA-supported Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
(BINP) was developed; BINP became effective in July 1995, and results thus far have
been encouraging.
The impact of efforts to address inefficiencies and ineffectiveness of family planning and
health services, in large measure the results of the split in service delivery between the Family
Planning and Health Services Directorates, was limited. Given nearly twenty years of IDA
investment in the development of program infrastructure and management, this was a key project
objective. Attempts to promote coordination and functional integration of services were little
more successful than previous efforts, and the program continued to lack a client orientation. The
2



experience of pilot projects gave useful pointers but also demonstrated the need for fundamental
changes in the system before sustained improvements could be expected.
7.   The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) probably achieved more in the
WID area than any other technical ministry in the government. Notable accomplishments
included establishment of a Gender Issues Office headed by a Joint Secretary and recruitment and
training of 4,500 female health assistants. However, full achievement of all WID objectives will
be a gradual process. Support for three long-standing women's programs to achieve intersectoral
population objectives was phased out in favor of alternative arrangements, e.g. integration with
NGO programs with similar objectives.
8.   A project-supported achievement of major significance not anticipated in the SAR was the
preparation of a follow-on Health and Population Program Project (HPPP) based on Fourth
Project (FPHP) experience as reflected in a health and population sector strategy (HPSS)
developed in 1996-97. This process resulted in valuable outcomes including strong political
support for key structural reforms, broad stakeholder participation in program development, and
improved planning capacity in MOHFW.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.   In reviewing the implementation experience of FPHP, it is useful to bear the following
factors in mind.
-  FPHP was a very large project, providing support to virtually all aspects of the health
and family welfare program; in this sense it was a sector project.
-  FPHP was organized into 66 individual sub-projects, each of which required separate
clearance, financial reporting, and audit.
* External support was channeled entirely through the Government's development (as
opposed to regular or revenue) budget in the form of projects. Much of the family
planning program was supported externally in this fashion. The non-regular status of
family planning and other project staff was a source of continuing staff discontent
and disruption.
*  The implementation environment was characterized by a number of major
impediments, including frequent transfer of staff, delayed release of funds, and
delayed approval of sub-projects.
*  The delivery of primary health care services was split between the Family Planning
(FP) and Health Services (HS) Directorates. Some MCH services were the
responsibility of FP, while others, including immunization, diarrheal disease and ARI
programs, were implemented by HS. The split resulted in separate FP and HS units
for such support services as logistics, MIS, and IEC.
Implementation Experience
10.  Implementation of FPHP got off to a slow start. Effectiveness was delayed because of the
legal requirement that agreements between Government and co-financiers be signed before the
IDA credit could become effective. Much of detailed content development was completed only
after FPHP was appraised, which resulted in delays in the initial implementation of many sub-
projects. Another source of delay resulted from the projectized structure of FPHP, which
required Planning Commission approval for each of the 66 sub-projects as well as appointment of
a project director for each.
3



11.  Of the original 66 sub-projects, seven were dropped for a number of reasons; the remaining
59 completed their planned activities by June 1998, the credit closing date. Of these, five
continued some activities beyond the credit closing date because of bilateral financing
agreements. A mid-term review (MTR) provided a valuable review of project experience to date
and identified those areas requiring special focus to improve implementation.
12.  The following paragraphs give an overview of the major accomplishments and failures of
FPHP sub-projects in terms of the nine general categories used in the MTR.
13. (1) Delivery of FP/MCH Services. The use of modern contraceptive methods continued
to rise steadily. A shift to use of low-dose oral contraceptives was accomplished, and service
delivery through satellite clinics was expanded. Planned recruitment of medical doctors by the
Family Planning Directorate, a long-standing difficulty, was completed. However, a number of
important issues affecting the continued development and sustainability of the family planning
program were unresolved. Due to lack of cooperation between the Family Planning and Health
Services Directorates, the use of clinical contraception declined drastically, leaving the program
dependent on oral contraceptives. High method discontinuation rates as well as high numbers of
menstrual regulation (MR) procedures indicated an urgent need to improve the counseling skills
of field staff. Clinical services provided by paramedics continued to be deficient in both quantity
and quality, resulting in underutilization of facilities.
14.  The expansion of satellite clinic coverage permitted increased coverage of child health
services. However, efforts to improve maternal health services were hampered by lack of
coordination between the FP and HS Directorates. With the exception of a few pilot projects,
strengthening of maternal services at thana health complexes (THCs) and district hospitals was
not achieved. Coordination among the facilities that should provide maternal care was poor, and
delivery by trained personnel remained low at less than 10%. Training of traditional birth
attendants (TBAs) was carried out as planned, but there were serious questions about the impact
of TBA training on maternal mortality and morbidity.
15.  (2) Disease Control and Other Public Health Programs. Two programs directed
primarily at children-control of acute respiratory infections and control of diarrheal diseases--
achieved encouraging results. The spread of knowledge and practice concerning use of oral
rehydration therapy for treatment of children with diarrhea in households and at THCs was a
particularly noteworthy achievement: DHS data for 1996-97 indicated that 75% of children with
diarrhea were either given ORT at home or were taken to a satellite clinic or health facility. The
status of the immunization program, however, was cause for concern. Coverage rates for initial
doses increased slightly. However, coverage surveys indicated that dropout rates, which were
declining through 1994, subsequently began to rise, leading to a decline in the percentage of
children fully immunized, which was only 54% for children 12-23 months in 1996-97.
16.  The progress of disease control programs aimed at adults was mixed. On the one hand, the
TB control program, using the DOTS strategy, and the leprosy control program, based on multi-
drug therapy, both achieved remarkable results: 85% of detected TB cases cured and the active
leprosy case rate reduced from 11 to 3.5 per 10,000 pop. from 1990 to 1997. These programs can
be regarded as among the most effective and well-managed programs of their kind in the world.
Both programs were implemented with substantial NGO involvement and marked the
development of the Ministry's ability to effectively cooperate with NGOs for the delivery of
services. However, both remained dependent on external technical assistance. The program for
control of vector-borne diseases (primarily malaria and kala azar) was compromised by
government problems with procurement of insecticides that were resolved only towards the end
of the project.
4



17. Activities under the STD sub-project started late and achieved little. The original plan was
superceded by a national HIV/AIDSISTD program that included a more comprehensive STD
program than originally envisaged, and coordination of the donor AIDS effort shifted to
1JNAIDS. At project-end, lack of progress, coupled with failure of GOB to give urgent priority
to addressing the AIDS threat, was cause for major concern. It was clear that effective
implementation of the national program would require a much more adequately empowered
agency than that responsible for the FPHP STD sub-project.
18. (3) Training/Human Resource Development. At least half of the FPHP subprojects
included a major training focus and another quarter had some kind of training activity. However,
there was neither a master plan for training nor any provision for training coordination, with the
result that a good deal of training supported by the project took place; however, it was
uncoordinated and there were numerous instances of duplication. The National Institute of
Population Research and Training (NIPORT), the primary training institution for the Family
Planning Directorate, continued to provide technically sound pre-service and in-service training
but because of poor coordination with the Directorate experienced difficulties in obtaining the
release of staff for planned in-service courses. In the latter two years of the project, the
unresolved status of NIPORT and consequent financial and management difficulties prevented
NIPORT from functioning effectively.
19. Some 27,000 health personnel of different categories were trained under the major training
sub-project on the Health Services side; a follow-up survey indicated significant gains in
knowledge and skills of trained vs. untrained staff. Some 4,500 newly recruited female Family
Health Assistants (the Health Services counterparts of Family Welfare Assistants) were trained in
poor circumstances; because of the split between the FP and HS Directorates no advantage was
taken of relevant FP training capacity. Staff who received advanced training abroad were not
given appropriate postings to take advantage of new skills after they returned to Bangladesh.
20. A sub-project to strengthen and improve the quality of nursing education and services
made some progress, including training of nursing supervisors. However, difficulties with
government policies regarding nurses remained. Recruitment and transfer policies were primarily
responsible for delays in filling up senior nursing posts, and even the creation of new government
posts did not result in enough posts to absorb all nurses being trained. Regulations requiring
employment of licensed diploma nurses in all private hospitals and clinics are needed to both
improve employment opportunities for nurses as well as improve quality of services.
21. The project supported a unit that was to oversee the production of a Human Resources
Development Master Plan. After many delays, data were collected, a number of studies were
completed, and a draft HRD strategy (not a Master Plan) was prepared and circulated for
comment. While these materials will be useful for HARD activities under HIPPP, there was little
impact for FPHP. The unit lacked the technical capacity or leadership to pursue its task, and the
HRD strategy produced by an external consultant was generally not understood. The failure to
make significant progress in the area of human resources was one of FPHP' s most notable missed
opportunities; it had adverse consequences inter alia for institutional development, staff training,
and program management capacity.
22. (4) Information, Education and Communication (IEC). The primary mass medium for
family planning and population communication continued to be radio. By project-end, the
Population Cell in Bangladesh Radio broadcast some 355 program minutes a day, including serial
dramas, songs, interviews, live programs from the field, etc. In addition to covering small
families and MCH care, programs devoted substantial time to gender issues and more recently to



the role and responsibility of men in family health. Surveys indicated that this programming was
widely heard and understood. The potential of the Population Cell in Bangladesh Television was
not fully exploited and available funds were not fully utilized.
23.  The Family Health Education sub-project, implemented by the Health Education Bureau,
produced a wide variety of informational, educational and training materials, including a manual
for health workers that was in great demand. However, there was no coherent strategy for health
education, nor was there any coordination between the Health Services and Family Planning IEC
efforts.
24.  (5) Systems/Institutional Development When it proved impossible to include structural
reform in the project, three activities were substituted. A reorganization study was subject to
numerous delays and was finally replaced altogether by reform recommendations made by
Government as a part of HPPP preparation. A Management Development Unit to facilitate
improved management of programs identified a number of valid management issues but was
unable to obtain the cooperation needed to achieve any impact and was closed at the
recommendation of the Mid-Term Review. An MCH Coordination Cell never functioned
effectively and was closed two years prior to the end of the project.
25.  The aim of the Thana Functional Improvement Pilot sub-project (TFIPP) was to strengthen
selected THCs through refurbishing of facilities, provision of equipment of supplies, and training
of staff. In general, results were promising: clear improvements in facility management,
cleanliness, staff discipline, level of service provision, and numbers of inpatients were observed
in the pilot TFCs. However, all three improvement elements were not accomplished in the same
facilities, and there were difficulties due to vacant posts and transfer of trained staff. The impact
of improvements as well as sustainability issues need to be assessed. The project will carry over
into HPPP and is expected to become a vehicle for planned decentralization of facility
management.
26.  FPHP supported strengthening of a number of existing medical institutions: medical
colleges, the Bangladesh Medical Research Center (BMRC), the National Institute of Social and
Preventive Medicine (NIPSOM), the Institute of Epidemiology and Disease Control Research
(IEDCR), and the Drug Testing Laboratory. The experience was in many respects similar.
Although physical improvements were satisfactorily completed and equipment etc. was procured,
there were long delays in the recruitment of WHO-supported consultants, and government
posting and transfer policies were in many instances clearly counterproductive. Project impact
was therefore much less than it might have been. The IEDCR, for example, was inappropriately
staffed, accomplished few of its goals, and in particular was unable to develop a system for
disease surveillance.
27.  By project-end, construction and staffing for an Institute of Mother and Child Health were
almost complete and staff training was well underway. As agreed, staff was about 50% female.
It is expected that the Institute will be given autonomous status; it has the potential to play an
important role in strengthening maternal health efforts under HPPP.
28.  A Health Economics Unit was established in the Secretariat to create a critical mass of
health and planning personnel well versed in health economics concepts and tools. The Unit
produced a number of useful products, organized workshops, and sponsored training abroad for
government and NGO staff. It will be continued under HPPP; however, it is likely to remain
dependent on external technical assistance for the foreseeable future.
6



29.  (6) Management Systems. A sub-project for logistics management by the Family
Planning Directorate contributed to strengthening a system that has benefited from long-standing
assistance from USAID. Improved management of FP/MCH commodities, including
contraceptives, was demonstrated by lack of any stockouts in the second half of the project
period. However, difficulties experienced with the Logistics Management Information System
(LMIS) and with appropriate projections of commodity requirements, linked to continuing
systems loss problems, raised questions about premature curtailment of external technical
assistance.
30.  The Family Planning MIS accomplished system development objectives in terms of design
and implementation of registers and reporting formats as well as training of field staff; assistance
from UNFPA enabled computerization at district and divisional FP offices. The MIS unit
continued to prepare and circulate monthly performance statistics for delivery of FP and MCH
services; in addition it took over preparation of the LMIS and oversaw initial collection and
compilation of FP personnel data for a human resources information system. However,
questions concerning completeness and accuracy of the data collected remained, and little if any
progress was made in promoting the utilization of MIS data for management purposes at thana
and district levels.
31.  Through mismanagement, delays in appointment of WHO consultants, and delays in
procurement of computer equipment, little progress was made by the sub-project for the
development of information systems in the Health Services Directorate. The failure to develop
health reporting systems was another major missed opportunity of FPHP. Some work on the
Health side of the human resources information system was completed.
32.  Facility and equipment surveys for both the FP and HS Directorates were carried out in the
first half of the project. Although the HS data were computerized and an abstract of the FP data
was prepared, neither survey was followed up and the data were neither utilized nor updated.
33.  Project management was greatly facilitated by the establishment of a project finance cell in
the Ministry, which was responsible for sub-project accounts, processing reimbursements claims
and withdrawal applications, operating special accounts, and following up on audit requirements
and reports. The unit's skills and experience will be retained through its incorporation into a
management accounting unit to be established under HPPP.
34.  (7) WID and Intersectoral Population Programs. FPHP included a WID/Gender
strategy whose key elements included broadening the focus of health services for women beyond
family planning; expanding women's involvement in the Ministry's policy-making processes;
removal of family planning targets; and empowering women through income generation, skills
development, and literacy programs. MOHFW probably achieved more in the gender area than
any other technical ministry in the government, although progress was, and likely will continue to
be, gradual. Notable achievements were establishment in the Ministry of a Gender Issues Office
(GIO) headed by a Joint Secretary and recruitment and training of 4,500 female FHAs. Due to
transfers and delay in recruiting a consultant, GIO accomplishments were limited, although by
project-end an effort to systematically address the WID agenda had begun. Method-specific
family planning targets were abolished on paper, but Government finds it difficult to operate
without the assistance of targets and views them as needed in the effort to reverse recent declines
in female sterilization.
35.  Support for three long-standing women's programs involving skills training and income
generation was continued under FPHP. An evaluation indicated achievement of some impact in
terms of increased contraceptive prevalence and socio-economic benefits for participants.
7



However, since it was felt that in view of changing circumstances program objectives could better
be accomplished through alternative arrangements, e.g. integration with similar NGO programs,
rather than through three different government ministries as set up in 1975, project funding was
phased out.
36.  (8) Infrastructure. The civil works component of the project was relatively smaller than
in previous projects (roughly 15% of total project costs), although in absolute terms it represented
a considerable increase. Construction of 100 FWCs, upgrading of 500 rural dispensaries to
FWCs, construction of 10 THCs, development of 18 district hospitals and 4 medical college
hospitals, and construction of the Institute of Mother and Child Health were achieved. The MTR
noted continued problems with site selection for FWCs. A planned office complex for the
Directorates was not constructed due to unresolved squatter issues.
37.  Establishment of a Construction and Maintenance Management Unit (CMMU) to
coordinate and oversee implementation of all the Ministry's construction and maintenance work
was an important step. However, weak contract management and supervision by the CMMU and
its consultants resulted in less than satisfactory quality of design, construction and refurbishment.
Additionally, the CMMU failed to prepare the required comprehensive maintenance plan and was
not able to establish the coordination with the PWD necessary to achieve maintenance goals.
38.  (9) Research and Analysis. The importance of research in FPHP is indicated by the fact
that almost 2% of the original project budget was allocated to research. Many sub-projects
included research activities, and most fell into priority areas of project concern including family
planning, MCH, and primary health care. Results were mixed, and emphasis on quality rather
than quantity would have produced better results. Much of the work was of questionable quality,
relevance for program managers was not as strong as it should have been, and provision for
coordination and dissemination of results was inadequate. On the positive side, the Bangladesh
Institute of Research for Promotion of Essential and Reproductive Health and Technology
(BIRPHERT) carried out high quality research of direct program interest, although not all
planned studies were undertaken. A Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) in 1996-97
continued a data base extending back more than 20 years, making possible measurement of
program impact. After a slow start, the Health and Demographic Survey (HDS) of the
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics began a series of community-based health surveys that over time
should provided additional longitudinal data including socio-economic and health status data not
available from DHS.
Project Sustainability
39.  Sustainability of the achievements of the four previous IDA-supported projects is a major
focus of the follow-on fifth project (HPPP). Specifically, HPPP will promote institutional
sustainability through the reorganization and reform of MOHFW; and financial sustainability
through a declining proportion of external funding, increases in the absolute levels of government
supports to the sector, and a number of activities to address resource mobilization. Strong
government ownership of the reform aspects of HPPP provides a firm basis for rating
sustainability of project investments as likely.
IDA Performance
40.  IDA played a key role in support of project preparation by Government. IDA led
planning for a preparation meeting in Geneva in 1989 where Government met with donor and UN
agencies (WHO was host, UNFPA chaired). Subsequently, IDA coordinated preparation of
needed background research and reports as well as the participation of consortium members in the
8



preparation process. Considerable work on the requirements for improvement of maternal health
was carried out, and a basis for addressing gender issues was developed. The lack of a sector
policy framework was evident; however, the work done for project preparation later fed into the
health and population sections of the Government's Fourth Five Year Plan.
41.  IDA recognized from the start the importance of structural reforms in the organization of
the program, specifically the need to address the bifurcation of service delivery between the
Family Planning and Health Services Directorates. However, there were major political
upheavals around the time of appraisal, leaving the Government then in power unable to
undertake significant reforms. IDA was obliged to fall back on covenanting a management study,
supplemented by sub-projects to support coordination and functional integration of service
delivery. The sub-projects were unsuccessful and the study was never carried out. In retrospect,
it is clear that preparation well in advance of appraisal, linked to government willingness and
ability to pursue reforms, would have been required in order to have included structural reform in
the project.
42.  IDA coordinated supervision missions in a systematic and generally productive fashion.
Of two missions annually, one was designated a technical mission and was handled by IDA with
the participation of consortium members available in Dhaka. The second mission was a full
supervision in which all consortium members were invited to join. This resulted in very large
missions but also made available extensive technical expertise. At the request of Government
and the consortium, IDA was instrumental in organizing a mid-term review (MTR) carried out
by an independent expert team working with Government. The extensive MTR highlighted
aspects of FPHP where implementation was faltering and began the process of drawing on project
experience to provide the basis for development of a sector strategy and a follow-on project.
43.  IDA carried out its role as the leader of the consortium, with responsibility for promoting
donor coordination and thus lightening the Government's management burden, with a large
measure of success. The difficulties of such an undertaking should not be underestimated. An
independent researcher and a consortium evaluation towards the end of the project both
concluded that IDA-led donor coordination in Bangladesh was probably the most successful
example of such an effort in the developing world. The donor-supported Population and Health
Office (PHO), based at the World Bank office in Dhaka, carried out dual functions of providing
implementation support to Government as requested and monitoring project progress.
44.  An initial attempt to design and implement a comprehensive computerized system to
monitor HPFP inputs and implementation progress did not serve the immediate needs of either
the Government or the Bank's-PHO unit; consequently it was not kept current and fell out of use.
It was replaced by a Disbursement and Monitoring Instrument that provided project financial data
to co-financiers at six-monthly intervals and a standardized quarterly proforma for reporting on
the status of sub-projects that was also used as a standard annex to supervision reports. Both
reports were shared with Government.
45.  IDA's role in procurement and disbursement was carried out promptly and effectively.
In both instances performance was improved over that in the Third Project due to availability of
specialists in the Resident Mission to handle these tasks.
Executing Agency Performance
46.  Special notice is required concerning the performance of WHO, which was contracted by
Government as the executing agency for activities involving 22 sub-projects at a cost of some $30
million, which representing almost 7% of total IDA and co-financier costs. This unusual
9



arrangement was carried out on the grounds that WI-HO, as the UN technical agency chiefly
concerned with health, was uniquely qualified to assist with implementation of the health aspects
of the project, which had a much larger health content that did the earlier projects. The results
were mixed. No consensus was ever reached concerning the appropriate role for WHO
consultants; WHO's internal procedures resulted in procurement delays; and WHO never reached
an understanding with Government concerning expedited clearance of project-supported
consultants and equipment; all of which resulted in lengthy delays that undermined
implementation of affected sub-projects.
Borrower Performance
47. Project Preparation. Government took the leading role in project preparation, and the
resulting project proposal, as appraised by the IDA-led consortium, was clearly 'owned' by
Government. The Government's preparation effort was systematic and quite extensive. It was
led by the Planning Cell of the Ministry and was structured in terms of the identification and
preparation of individual projects. A first compilation of possible projects for consideration was
followed by a series of working groups involving government staff, consortium members, and a
few other concerned organizations including NGOs. Through this process a set of priority
projects to be appraised was identified and their contents developed.
48.  Implementation. The level of program impact achieved indicated considerable program
accomplishments, for which Government should be given full credit. Nevertheless, results were
significantly constrained by procedural and organizational difficulties. Three types of procedural
constraints affected Government's ability to implement: cumbersome and time-consuming
procedures for approval and modification of projects (the total number of projects, including the
66 FPHP sub-projects, was more than a hundred); failure to manage postings and transfers in a
fashion to strengthen program implementation or to ensure that staff who received specialized
training were subsequently able to make use of their skills; and delays in the release of funds,
which although less severe than those experienced in the Third Project remained significant.
Service delivery was additionally constrained by the split between the Family Planning and
Health Services Directorates.
49. Procurement. Government's ability to procure in a timely fashion and in accordance with
IDA guidelines improved over the experience of the Third Project. The preparation of contract
packages, although initially time-consuming, ultimately allowed most procurement to be carried
out within the original project period; unlike the previous IDA-assisted projects, delayed
procurement was not a major cause for postponement of the credit closing date for FPHP.
Procurement for goods, works, and services totaled about US$322 million, slightly more than
originally anticipated. Experience indicating the need for preparation of a procurement plan,
establishment of standing evaluation committees, and performance audits during project
implementation was incorporated into preparation of HPPP.
50.  Disbursement. The projectized structure of FPHP resulted in a very considerable burden
in terms of financial record keeping. However, once the Project Finance Cell was established in
the Ministry and appropriate procedures and formats understood, compilation and submission of
disbursement applications proceeded satisfactorily. The IDA credit of SDR133.2 million
($US1 88.5 million equivalent by project-end) was fully utilized, and co-financing funds were
almost fully utilized except for some DflD and EC grants which will be used to support parallel-
funded activities continued beyond the credit closing date. Some $3.1 million with WHO
remained unspent as of July 31, 1998. These funds were subsequently utilized to support flood
relief activities in the aftermath of the devastating floods that affected Bangladesh in August and
September of 1998. As of December 1, 1998, total project costs were estimated to be $756.6
10



million, supported by $188.4 million (25%) from IDA, $265.0 million (35%) from co-financiers,
and $303.2 million (40%) from the Government of Bangladesh (Table 8).
51.  Audits. The Borrower's long-standing difficulties in meeting IDA audit requirements
remained a difficulty. The projectized structure of FPBP required the submission of a separate
annual report for each project. Although audit reports were submitted, many of them contained
observations that were required to be resolved by Government. At the time the credit closed, 7
observations from the Third Project had not yet been resolved, and 45 observations from the
Fourth Project also remained. Assurances were received from Government that all outstanding
audit observations from the Third Project and all from the first four years of the Fourth Project
would be resolved by December 1998. Government is aware that failure to achieve this deadline
could jeopardize a smooth flow of funds from IDA and the cofinanciers to the Fifth Project.
Since the Fifth Project incorporates a sector-wide approach, financial management aspects of the
project will be reviewed by a financial management specialist to ensure compliance with OP/BP
10.02. This will ensure that appropriate accounting, internal control, financial reporting and audit
arrangements are put in place, which should eliminate the problems of qualified audit reports
experienced under previous IDA credits.
52.   Covenant Compliance. The inclusion of a large number of covenants (33), many of
which were not feasible, was not useful. The covenants relating to program reform were not met
directly, although they were fulfilled indirectly through preparation of the reform aspects of the
Fifth Project. Other covenants were met.
Assessment of Outcome
53.  The project is rated "satisfactory." Aspects of the project, in particular some program
management, institutional strengthening and service delivery objectives, were not accomplished.
Nevertheless, given the program-wide scope of the project, the successful implementation of
many activities, the impressive progress of many outcome and impact indicators in one of the
world's poorest countries, the likely sustainability of project investments, and the preparation of a
sector strategy and a follow-on sector-wide reform project, a "satisfactory" rating is justified.
Future Operations
54.  At an aid consortium meeting for Bangladesh held in Paris in Sept. 1995, the basic
approach for a follow-on fifth project was agreed. The Health and Population Program Project
(HPPP), based on the mid-term review of FPHP and the subsequent Health and Population Sector
Strategy (HPSS), was appraised in March 1998 and became effective in July 1998.
Key Lessons Learned
55.  Extensive review of project experience began with the mid-term review and was continued
as an essential element in the preparation of the sector strategy (HPSS) and the follow-on fifth
project (H1PPP). The lessons learned drawn from these reviews and their incorporation into BPPP
are summarized as follows.
a. Although long-term commitment to the sector on the part of IDA and other
development partners, as reflected in the series of IDA credits, has been and will
continue to be essential to the progress of the sector, the project did not effectively
address program sustainability or the reduction of continued dependence on external
financing. HPPP supports institutional sustainability through the reorganization and
reform of MOHFW and well as decentralization of facility management. Financial
sustainability is supported through a declining proportion of external funding,
11



anticipated increases in the absolute levels of government support to the sector, and a
number of activities to address resource.mobilization. Given high poverty levels in
Bangladesh and the consequent importance of ensuring the availability of health
services to those who have very limited ability to pay for health services, cost recovery
efforts will be introduced on a pilot basis and the impact carefully monitored.
b. The IDA-led donor consortium largely achieved its aid coordination objectives, thereby
reducing MOHFW's management burden in terms of donor relations andfacilitating
relatively flexible financing arrangements. Under HPPP IDA will continue to lead a
donor consortium that will coordinate consortium assistance to MOHFW. In the light
of the recommendations of a review of the consortium's activities and management
carried out towards the end of FPHP, the staffing and functioning of the consortium
unit located in the World Bank office in Dhaka will be somewhat modified to provide a
better balance of technical skills and increased capacity to respond promptly to
MOHFW requests for support.
c. The projectized approach to the utilization of donor resources was inefficient in a
variety of ways and undermined the Ministry's ability to manage its program. In
particular, the financing and management of much of the family planning program as a
set of smaller and larger projects rather than as a cohesive program made
implementation of policy initiatives difficult. With the end of FPHP, the many projects
supported by FPHP were closed, and in their place, with HPPP support, line
management of the program will be expanded and substantially strengthened.
d. The delivery of health andfamily welfare services through separate Directorates
continued to be inefficient and in important respects limited effectiveness. Project-
supported efforts to address the issue through mechanisms such as functional
integration failed; afundamental structural reform is required. The need for such as
reform has long been recognized by outside observers and some within MOHFW as
well; however, previous reform efforts failed due do strong vested interests and lack of
key support within Government. The sector strategy adopted by Government prior to
the preparation of HPPP calls for such a reform, and a specific plan for reform that
includes integration of field-level services as well as subsequent unification of the
Directorates was developed by a high-level government committee and approved at the
highest level. This process has ensured maximum government support for and
ownership of reform measures.
e.   Despite extremely limited public resources, pressures on Government to fund expensive
tertiaryfacilities and curative care proved difficult to resist. A public sectorfocus on
priority fundingfor the most cost-effective basic services is needed Under BPPP a
cost-effective package of essential services appropriate to the circumstances of
Bangladesh, including reproductive and child health care and communicable disease
control, is identified. Allocation of a specified proportion of public sector resources for
support of this package is covenanted, and compliance will be reviewed as part of the
annual review of HPPP.
f. The successful delivery of services by NGOs working with Government suggests that
this approach could usefully be expanded. The impressive implementation of the TB
and leprosy programs by NGOs, the favorable family planning and MCH results
achieved in areas where services are provided by NGOs, and the key role played by
NGOs in the implementation of the IDA-supported nutrition project (BINP) all
12



demonstrate the comparative advantage for program implementation that NGOs often
demonstrate. Various modalities are possible: these examples include both
Government-NGO cooperation and contracting with NGOs for service delivery.
However, NGO capacities vary in different areas, and MOHFW reviews proposed
expansion of NGO participation carefully. An NGO funding mechanism to support
delivery of FP/MCH services by NGOs and well as capacity building will be continued
under HPPP. In addition, the systematic involvement of NGOs in annual program
reviews will provide an opportunity to assess NGO achievements and to reach
agreement on further NGO involvement.
13



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6       [Key Indicators for Project Operation--NA]
Table 7:      Major Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      [Economic Costs and Benefits--N/A]
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
N/A: Not applicable
14



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial         Partial           Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                                             El                 El   
Sector Policies                                            Eii                                     El
Financial Objectives                                                          E] l  El
Institutional Development                E                                    El                  El
Physical Objectives                                        El                 El                   El
Poverty Reduction                                                                                 E] El
Gender Issues                                                                                     E] El  El
Other Social Objectives                  E                 El                 El
Environmental Objectives                 E                 El                 El
Public Sector Management                 El                El                                      El
Private Sector Development               n                 Wi                 E                    E
B. Project Sustainability                   Likely                     Unlikely                      Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                           El                          WI                            El
Preparation Assistance                   El                                                        El
Appraisal                                El                                                        E
Supervision                                                          El                            E]
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Preparation                              E                           WI                            E
Implementation                           E                           WI                            El
Covenant compliance
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                     Satisfactory             Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
15                WI                            El
1 5



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                               Purpose                       Year of           Status
I____________________  I_________________   Approval                               l
First Population Project    Increase the demand for and supply of Maternal-Child   1974  Credit closed April 1980
(Cr.533-BD)                 Health (MCH) and famnily planning services. The
components included:
(i) Training and Service Facilities
(ii) Increasing the number of
(iii) Female Family Welfare Workers by 3,700
(iv) Intersectoral Pilot Schemes to Disseminate FP
Information
(v) Program Support for Population Activities
Second Population and Family  This project aimed to consolidate, strengthen and  1979  Credit closed April 1986
Health Project (Cr. 921 -BD)    expand the activities started under the first project.
The project had the following components:
(i) Health Care, MCH and FP Service Delivery
(ii) Capacity Increases and Improvements in the
Quality of Training of FP and Health Personnel
(iii) IEM activities
(iv) Evaluation and Research
(v) Innovative and Private Sector Activities
(vi) Administration, Management and Project
Implement
Third Population and Family    Assist the GOB in achieving the fertility and infant and  1986  Credit closed December
Welfare Project (Cr. 1649-BD)  maternal mortality reduction goals and to maintain      1991
program momentum thereafter by stimulating
additional demand for family planning and to help
strengthen the infrastructure for basic rural health
services. The components were:
(i) Family Planning Service Delivery Consolidation
and Expansion;
(ii) MCH Programs
(iii) Communications
(iv) Womens' Programs
(v) Support to NGO and Innovative Programs
(vi) Research and Evaluation
(vii) Project Management Support
Bangladesh Integrated       Assist GOB to develop a comprehensive and        1995      Under implementation
Nutrition Project (Cr 2735-  coordinated program to reduce malnutrition;
BD)                         components for national-level nutrition activities;
community-based nutrition; and intersectoral nutrition
program development; NGOs contracted to implement
community-based activities
16



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned          latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project                       12/16/88 (IEPS review)
Summary)                                                03/17/89 (Mission)
Preparation                                             02/24/90
Appraisal                             04/90*            10/29/90
Negotiations                          04/91 *           04/26/91
Board presentation                                      06/06/91
Signing                                                 06/21/91
Effectiveness                         09/91*            03/17/92
Project completion                                      12/31/97
Credit closing                        12/31/96          06/30/98
*Dates obtained from MOP
17



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92      FY93    FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99    Total
Appraisal estimate  16.0     39.6     39.0     37      33.5    14.9    0.0      0.0       180.0
Formally Revised                                       27.1    31.4    35.4    0.0
Actual             12.1      14.0    39.4    25.1    29.9    24.4    42.1    1.4          188.4
Actual as % of     76%       35%      101%    68%       110%   78%        --     --       105%
Estimate
Date of final                                                                            December 3,
disbursement                                                                              1998
18



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Summary of Achievement of Project Objectives
SAR           Baseline          Achieve-   Achieve-          Source                  Comments
obj.                             ment         ment
a.   Total fertility rate        4.3          3.3     CPS 91/BDHS 96-97  3-yr period prior to survey
Contraceptive prevalence  39.9%       49.2%     CPS 91/BDHS 96-97  includes traditional methods
rate
b.   Infant mortality rate        87          82      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Per 1000 live births; 5-yr
period prior to survey; data show
consistent declines since early
1980s.
Child mortality rate        50          37      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Per 1000 live births; 5-yr period
prior to survey.
Full immunization          59%         54%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Children 12-23 months.
(BCG, DPT, polio,                                                  Coverage evaluation surveys
measles)                                                          indicate increasing dropout rates
since 1994
ARI prevalence             24%         15%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Children under 3 yrs.
ARI treatment              28%         36%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Taken to health facility.
Diarrhea prevalence        13%          9%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Children under 3 yrs.
Use of ORS                 50%         49%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    ORS and/or taken to health
facility/provider about 75%.
c.   Tetanus toxoid immuni-      66%         75%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Births five years prior to survey;
zation                                                              at least one dose.
Antenatal care by trained  26%         26%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Births five years prior to survey;
persons                                                             does not include trained TBAs.
Delivery assisted by       10%          8%      BDHS 93-94/96-97
trained persons
Maternal mortality ratio  data not    data not                       Figures from several sources
available    available                     give MMRs around 4-5 maternal
deaths per 1000 live births in the
1990s; both levels and trends
considered uncertain.
d.   TB                                               WHO Program          Cure rate 85%; however, case
Review 1997         detection rate of 30%, 5:2 M/F
detection rate of concem.
Leprosy (active cases)      11          3.5     WHO Annual Report  Per 10,000 pop. for 1990, 1997;
1997                case detection rate improved;
patients now treated at regular
facilities.
Vector-bome diseases                            GOB                  Increased no. of districts (13 of
64) declared malaria-endemic in
1 9



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
__________                 1998; upsurge of kala azar.
e.   Malnourished (stunted)    65%         51%     BBS CNS 89-90/95-   Children 6 mos.-5 yrs 1989-90,
96                 1995-96; -2SD below standard
Vit. A Supplementation    49%        64%      BDHS 93-94/96-97    Children under 3 yrs.
Anemia                              67% F/   Natl Anemia Survey   Mild to severe degrees of
62% M    (1997)              anemia included.
Consumption of iodized               78%      household surveys    Pct. of households; impact of
salt                                         (1997)              increased use of iodized salt not
evaluated.
Summary of Civil Works Targets and Achievements
Target    Achievement          Pct.
| Maternal and Child Health Training Institute                Cancelled
Population and Health Bhavan                                 Cancelled
Construction of Family Welfare Centers (FWCs)    100            87              87
Upgrading of Rural Dispensaries (RDs)            500            429             86
Improvement of infrastructure of Nursing          7              7             100
Education Centres
Establishment of Nurses Training Centres          4              4             100
Renovation of Medical Colleges                     8             8             100
Construction/repair of Medical College Hostels    5              5             100
for female students
Institute of Mother and Child Health                       Accomplished
Construction, rehabilitation and renovation of             Accomplished
offices in National Institute of Preventive and
Social Medicine (NIPSOM)
Construction of Leprosy Training Institute and             Accomplished
Hospital
Minor construction/repairs of Thana Health                 Accomplished  80% of
Centres (THCs) under Thana Functional                                     allocated funds
Improvement Project                                                       expended
Development of District Hospitals                 13            13             100
Establishment of new THCs                         10            10             100
Improvement of Medical College Hospitals          4              4             100
20



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                           appraisal/redefined         Status            Impact of study
Periodic contraceptive          Periodic estimates of TFR,  DHS carried out   Permitted continuation of
prevalence/fertility surveys    CPR and related measures   in 1993-94; 1996-  longitudinal data base and
97               measurement of program
impact
Survey of the physical condition    Planning for maintenance and   Completed  Not effectively utilized
and the utilization of existing  improved utilization of
facilities for FP and Mother and  facilities
Child Health Services
Feasibility study to identify the  Improvement of FP logistics    Carried out as part Not yet known
storage requirement for FP and                              of HPPP
health supplies                                             preparation
Comprehensive baseline survey of  Provision of baseline for  Completed        Permitted assessment of
maternal and neonatal health care   project to strengthen maternal            current status and baseline
in the districts of Kushtia, Tangail,  and neonatal health care.             for measurement of
Feni and Surajganj/Pabna                                                      impact
Baseline survey of tuberculosis and  Monitoring of impact of  Completed       Permitted assessment of
leprosy                        interventions                                 current status and baseline
for measurement of
impact
In-depth review of the outcome of   Preparation and         Completed         Review indicated
the special program to address  implementation of action plan                 significant increase in the
capacity utilization at the THCs  based on findings                           number of in- and out-
and FWCs.                                                                    patients in pilot thanas
Periodic Health and Demographic   Periodic estimates of     Completed         Establishment of
Surveys (HDS)                   demographic, health, and                     important longitudinal
socio-economic measures                      data base begun.
Study on the reorganization of  Recommendations for         Dropped
health and FP programs          reorganization of FP and
Health Services Directorates
as well as service delivery
Evaluation to assess whether    Ensure expanded distribution   Completed      Assessment satisfactory
contraceptives provided on a    of contraceptives
priority basis to community
volunteer programs, Mothers'
Centers, Women's Coops,
Women's vocational training
programs.
Evaluation of 3 women's         Assess impact and future of    Completed      Programs assessed to be
(intersectoral population) programs  programs                                 effective; decided to
integrate implementation
with other programs with
similar objectives (e.g.
NGO programs)
21



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal       Actual/latest
estimate          estimate
Item                                                         (US$ Million)     (US$ Million)
1. FP/MCH Service Delivery                                            359.8              519.6
Access to FP Services                                              200.9              361.2
Strengthening of MCH Services                                       43.7               61.3
Clinical Services Development                                       34.7               25.8
In-Service Training
NIPORT                                                           13.5                14.2
TBA Training                                                      5.3                 2.7
FP Facilities
Construction and Upgrading of FWCs and RDs                       36.0               36.9
Upgrading of MCH Training Institute                               9.2                0.0
Strengthening of FP/MCH Logistics Supply System                   2.2                3.6
Private Sector Contraceptive Marketing                              14.4                13.9
2. Health Service Delivery                                            157.2              176.7
Maternal and Neonatal Health Care Pilot Project                      2.3                3.3
Strengthening Nursing and Medical Education
Nursing Education                                                12.8               12.5
Medical Education                                                15.1               11.6
Medical Quality Assurance                                         1.2                1.0
Institute for Mother and Child Health                             9.8               15.3
Expansion and Development of NIPSOM                               7.6                3.3
Development Research in Bangladesh                                  1.6                1.5
Disease Prevention and Control
Tuberculosis and Leprosy Programs                               30.4                14.3
EPI and CDD Programs                                             7.1                54.2
Vitamin A and Iodine Deficiencies and ARI                       15.8                 8.7
Control of Vector-Borne Diseases                                 1.3                 2.0
Intestinal Parasite Control Project                              0.5                 0.5
Expansion of Institute of Public Health (I.V. Fluid Plant)       1.1                 3.4
Modernization of Drug Testing Laboratory                         0.6                 0.5
Development of Urban PHC                                           2.4                 0.0
Expansion of School Health Prograrn                                1.2                 0.6
Improvement of Health Facilities
Development of District and Medical College Hospitals           11.5                15.6
Construction of UHCs                                            11.8                 9.6
Improved Utilization of UHCs and FWCs                             23.0               18.8
3. Supporting Activities to Delivery of FP and Health Services         71.9               47.9
Strengthening of Information Systems
MIS for FP/MCH                                                     2.1                2.0
22



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Appraisal       Actual/latest
estimate          estimate
Item                                                          (US$ Million)     (US$ Million)
MIS for Health                                                     2.6                1.4
Health and Demographic Survey                                      0.6                0.2
Epidemiological Surveillance System                                0.5                0.5
Improving FP & Health Organization, Mngt. & Financing
MDU Support to FP and Health Services                             3.5                 2.2
Reorganization of Health and FP Programs                          1.6                 0.8
Strengthening of PDEU                                             1.3                 0.8
Establishment of MCH Coordination Cell                            1.1                 0.2
Establishment of Health Economic and Financing Project            0.4                 4.7
Restructuring of Project Finance Cell                             0.4                 0.4
Project Management Support                                        5.3                 5.3
Construction of a FP and Health Building                          9.7                 0.0
Establishment of the MCCU                                         1.7                 2.3
Expansion of Communications Programs
Functional Integration of IEM and HEB Units                       7.6                 2.2
Support for Mass Media Activities                                 3.6                 2.2
Promotion and Community Participation                             5.4                 2.9
Support of NGOs                                                      8.5               13.9
Development of Innovative Project                                    5.3                1.7
Support for Technical Assistance Projects 1/                        10.8                4.7
4. Women's and Nutrition Programs                                      12.4                12.1
Continued Support for Three Women's Program                     _
Women's Cooperatives                                               3.7                3.7
Mothers' Center                                                    2.8                4.0
Women's Vocational Training                                        3.3                2.7
Coordinated Nutrition Program                                       2.6                 1.2
Total Project Costs                                                   601.4              756.3
1/ Technical Assistance Projects included: Training Health Personnel, Human Resources Development Master Plan, Control and
Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), Control and Prevention of Cancer, Establishment of a Pharmaceutical Production
Unit at Khulna and Establishment of a Condom Manufacturing Plan.
23



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actualllatest estimate (US$M)
Source                     l           Total                          Total
IDA                                    180.0                          188.4
Co-financiers:
Australia                                9.6                            4.9
Belgium 1/                               2.8                            0.0
Canada                                  40.3                           35.8
EEC                                     47.8                           40.4
German
GTZ                                    12.8                           13.1
KfW                                    38.8                           76.5
Japan 2/                                 9.1                            0.0
Netherlands                             24.8                           24.7
Norway                                  33.2                           28.3
Sweden                                  13.4                           14.4
United Kingdom                          23.7                           26.9
Government of Bangladesh               165.1                          303.2
Total                                  601.4                          756.3
1/ Belgium later decided not to participate in the Project.
2I The Government of Bangladesh decided to drop the Renovation of MCHTI sub-project, which was to be financed by Japan.
24



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan/                                                Original     Revised
Credit                         Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement         Section          Type      Status      Date         Date                 Description of Covenant                    Comments
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para I (a, b)  9       C         09/30/92     09/30/92     Establish annual project review system including
budget for pop. and health sub-sectors; carry out
reviews and take required actions.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 3(a)   10         C         01/01/95     06/30/95     Employ qualified women to fill 4500 out of 5000
vacant HA positions in outreach services.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 3(b)    5         CD        03/31/92     12/31/94     Prepare and furnish to IDA for comments a plan on  The unified system agreed in
recruitment of HAs including appropriate      the next project has
proportions of male and female staff and carry out   addressed this.
plan taking account of IDA's comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 4      10         C          12/31/94    12/31/94     Carry out a fertility survey according to TOR  Done
acceptable to IDA and furnish results to IDA for
comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 5      10         C         03/31/93                  Carry out every two years beginning 03/31/93 a  DHSs done in 1994 and
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (CPS) according   1996.
to TOR acceptable to IDA and furnish results to
IDA for comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 6      10         C                                   Establish transportation arrangements for FP and  Arrangements established
health field workers to attend satellite clinic.  and operationalized.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 7 (a)    9        C          09/30/92                 Carry out a survey of the physical condition and  Survey done.
the utilization of existing facilities for FP and
Mother and Child Health Services.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 8       10        CD         12/31/92    06/30/95     Carry out a feasibility study to identity the storage   Study has been launched for
requirements for FP and health supplies.      a unified logistic system for
the next project
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 9       10        CD        03/31/92     12/30/94    Initiate a comprehensive baseline survey of     Survey report finalized.
25



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Loan/                                               Original     Revised
Credit                        Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement        Section          Type      Status      Date         Date                Description of Covenant                    Comments
maternal and neonatal health care in the districts of
Kushtia, Tangail, Feni and Sirajganj/Pabna and
furnish the results to IDA for comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 10     10        CD         09/30/92                To create additional nurse positions in nursing  Complied after delay.
institute and THCs in accordance with a schedule
agreed with IDA.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 11     10        C                      12/31/94    Furnish IDA for clearance final design of the  Done.
Institute for Mother and Child Health.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 12      5        C                                  Require recipients of research grants and of project  Process started to monitor
financed training to remain in their relevant  the requirement of covenant.
institutions or areas of expertise for at least two
years after completion of training or research.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 13     10        C          09/30/92                Carry out baseline surveys of tuberculosis and  Data collected as part of
leprosy.                                     project implementation.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 14     10        CD         07/31/92                Assign responsibility for urban primary health care   Responsibility assigned.
to either the national or the local government and
inform IDA of decision.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 15     10        CD         03/31/93    05/30/95     Prepare and furnish IDA for comments a master  Master Plan developed.
plan for school health programs and carry out such
programs taking into account IDA's comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 16(a)   10       CD         04/30/92    05/30/95    Prepare and furnish IDA for comments the      Done
architectural plans for new THCs including
indications of selected sites, allocation of 70% of
the beds for women and children and a
comprehensive maintenance plan.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 16(b)   13       CD         04/30/92                Carry out plans reflecting that 70% of the beds in    Plans carried out for IDA
district hospitals and THCs will be for women and   funded THCs and district
__________ _________  ____________  ____________  children.                                 hospitals.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 17     9          CD        06/30/94    06/30/95     Carry out an in-depth review of the outcome of the   The review indicates that in
26



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Loan/                                                Original     Revised
Credit                         Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement         Section          Type      Status      Date         Date                 Description of Covenant                    Comments
special program to address capacity utilization at    the pilot thanas of the project
the THCs and FWCs, prepare an action plan,    there is a significant increase
furnish and carry out the action plan taking into  in the number of patients in
account IDA's comments.                       both the in-patient and out-
patient facilities.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 18     10         C         07/31/94     12/31/95     Carry out the MIS needs assessment and system  Report submitted to IDA.
design and furnish the results to IDA for
comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 19     10         C          12/31/94    06/30/95     Carry out a health demographic survey in      Survey completed.
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
IDA and furnish the results to IDA for comments.
Sched 4, para 20     5         CD         08/31/93    06/30/96     Carry out a study on the reorganization of health    IDA and GOB agreed to drop
Cr. 2259                                                                        and FP programs in accordance with TOR        the study. The issue of
satisfactory to IDA, furnish the recommendations    reorganization is being
of the study to IDA for comments, prepare and  addressed through a igh level
carry out an action plan taking into account IDA's   committee on 0 & M.
comments.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 21     5          C         03/31/94     06/30/97     Prepare human resource development plan for   Draft HRD report submitted
strengthening the capacity for human resource  to IDA. Follow-up of the
development, planning, furnish the plan to IDA for  report will be carried out in
comments and carry out the plan taking into   the remaining period of the
account IDA's comments.                       Project.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 22      5         C                                   Establish and maintain a MCH coordination cell in   Completed.
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
IDA and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 23(a)   10        CD         08/31/92                 Establish a health economics and financing pilot    Unit is operational.
project in the MOHFW with competent staff in
adequate numbers and with terms of reference and
________________   ________  __________    a work program   acceptable to IDA.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 23(b)   5         CD                                  Take all actions required to strengthen MOHFW  Being done through HEU.
taking into account policy-related financial and
_________   ________              ___________  economic analyses by the project.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 23(c)    5        C          09/30/93    06/30/96     Furnish to IDA for comments a plan to address the   This issue has been
I issue of long-term sustainability, proposals for  addressed through the HPSS.
27



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Loan/                                                Original     Revised
Credit                        Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement         Section         Type       Status      Date         Date                 Description of Covenant                    Comments
achieving an acceptable balance between the
MOHFW's revenue and dev. budgets, carry out the
plan taking IDA's comments into account.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 24     10         C                                   Maintain the PFC with competent staff in adequate   Being maintained.
numbers until the completion of the project.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 25      5         C          06/30/93                 Unify the BPDU and CMC and assure that the new   BPDU and CMC unified.
unit has the required administrative and financial
authority to carry out its construction and
maintenance responsibilities.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 26      5         C          08/31/92    06/30/95    Furnish a strategy and workplan for functionally  A combined FP-MCH IEC
integrating FP and health communications      strategy prepared to provide
activities of IEM unit and HEB to include     functional integration.
indicators of gender awareness and put such
functional integration into effect by 12/31/92.
C22590      Sched 4, para 27     9          CD        06/30/92     10/30/94     Carry out an evaluation of the community      Evaluations Completed.
(a,b)                                                              volunteer programs and furnish results to IDA for
comments and ensure contraceptives are provided
on priority basis to community volunteer programs,
to Mother's Centers, Women's Cooperatives and to
Women's Vocational Training programs.
Cr. 2259    Sched 4, para 28 (a,  9         CD        09/30/92                  Carry out in-depth review of 3 Women's program.   In-depth review completed;
b)                                                                 Prepare action plan for strengthening programs,  programs phased out of
furnish results of review and action plan to IDA for  FPHP.
comments, carry out action plan taking IDA's
comments into account.
Cr. 2259    Article IV. Sec.4.01,   I       C                                   Submit to IDA audits of projects accounts by  Audits being submitted
para (b)                                                           independent auditors acceptable to IDA within  timely.
nine months of the close of each fiscal year.
Covenant Type:
I               Accounts/audit                                             8       =        Indigenous people
2               Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  9        =       Monitoring, review and reporting
28



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
3       =        Flow and utilization of project funds                         10       =        Implementation
4       =        Counterpart funding                                           11       =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary of other resource
5                Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency                    allocation
6                Environmental covenants                                       12                Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
7                Involuntary resettlement                                      13       =        Other.
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with
29



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD
or OP/BP) was noticed except that in the case of OD 10.60 (OP/BP 10.02) which concerns project
financial management, the project failed to resolve numerous audit qualifications as noted in
paragraph 50 of the ICR. This problem is not expected to reoccur under the Fifth Project because
during the appraisal process the financial management systems, staffing, financial reporting and
audit arrangements will be reviewed by a financial management specialist to ensure compliance
with OP/BP 10.02.
30



BANGLADESH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 2259-BD)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned                      Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks      US$        Staff Weeks       US$
('000)                      ('000)
Preparation to appraisal      n.a.          n.a.          81.3          200.0
Appraisal                     n.a.          n.a.          72.8          203.2
Negotiation through Board     n.a.          n.a.          29.8          88.6
approval
Supervision                  707.7        1,430.5        1,186.3       3,151.5
Completion                   12.0          22.1            4.0          17.0
TOTAL                                                   1,374.2       3,660.3
n.a.: not available
31



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating 2/
Number                  Specialized     Implement-   Develop-ment
Stage of       Month/       Of       Days in      staff skills       ation       Objectives      Types of
Project cycle     year      Persons     Field     represented 1/       Status                    Problems 3
Preparation          03/90        10         37     TM,SPS,PS,OA,P,        n/a            n/a
Through Appraisal                                   PO,SHS,PHS
Appraisal through    6/91         9          40     TM,SPS,PS,OA,P,        n/a            n/a
Board Approval                                      PO,SHS,PHS
Board Approval       03/92                                                 n/a            n/a
through
Effectiveness
Supervision 1      11/91          10         14     TM,SPS,PS,OA,P,         I              I
PO,SHS,PHS
Supervision 2      04/92          9          16     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          1              I
HS,SHS
Supervision 3      10/92          10         15     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          1
HS,SHS
Supervision 4      03/93          11         15     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          1              1
HS,SHS
Supervision 5      10/93          11         14     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          2              1
HS,SHS
Supervision 6      05/94          11         16     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S
HS,SHS
Supervision 7      11/94          10         17     TM,PS,W,PHS,            S              S
P,SHS
Supervision 8      05/95          11         17     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S
HS,SHS, PE
Supervision 9      11/95          8          13     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P         HS             HS
HS,SHS, SPA,HE   _
Supervision 10     06/96          8          15     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S
HS,SHS, SPA,HE
Supervision 11     12/96          8          13     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S           MC
HS,SHS, SPA,HE
Supervision 12     08/97          11         14     TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S           MC
HS,SHS, SPA
Supervision 13     06/98          8          1      TM,PS,W,P,OA,P          S              S
HS,LS, SS
Implementation     12/98          1          7      PS
Completion Report
I/ Key to Specialized Staff skills: TM=Task Manager; SS=Social Scientist; W=Women in Development Specialist, PHS-Public
Health Specialist; PS=Population Specialist; P=Procurement Officer, OA=Operations Analyst, PO= Project Officer, SHS=Sr. PHN
Specialist, SPA=Sr. Population Advisor, HS= Health Economist, PE=Principle Economist, LS=Lead Specialist
2/ S=Satisfactory; HS=Highly Satisfactory
3/ MC=Limited Management Capacity
32



Appendix A
BANGLADESH
FOURTH POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
IDA-COFINANCIERS-GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH REVIEW MISSION
June 2-15, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
33



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.           INTRODUCTION ................................................                                                                     35
II.    SUMMARY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................   35
III.        PROJECT RESULTS .................                                            ...............................                      36
A.  Achievement of Objectives ...........................                                    ......................              37
B. Other Results .................................................                                                               38
C. Sustaining Project Achievements .................................................                                             39
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION                                                 .....................................                                     40
A.  Progress on  Agreed  Actions ....................................                                 .............               40
B.  Status  of Sub-Component Implementation  ...........................                                    ..........            40
C. Procurement .................................................                                                                  41
D.  Financial Status and  Disbursements  ...............................................                                          42
E. Audit .................................................                                                                        43
F. Covenants .................................................                                                                    43
G.  Implementation  Constraints ........................................                                  .........               43
V.           TRANSITION ISSUES ................................................                                                                44
VI.          KEY  LESSONS ................................................                                                                      45
VIl.   NEED FOR PROJECT EVALUATION ......................................                                                                       45
VIII.  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ............. ............                                                                               46
34



1.    INTRODUCTION
1.    This aide-memorie summarizes the findings and recommendations of a joint IDA-
Cofinanciers'-Government of Bangladesh Mission that reviewed the implementation of the Fourth
Population and Health Project (FPHP) from June 2-15, 1998. The objective of this final review
mission was to assist the government in assessing the achievement of project objectives, ensuring
sustainability of project results, and reviewing implementation progress. This also included
agreeing with the government on the use of possible project savings and other needed actions
subsequent to the project closing on June 30, 1998. The mission met senior government officials,
project directors, and representatives of NGOs, technical agencies, professional bodies and civil
society, and reviewed different project aspects with them. The Government provided excellent
documentation to the mission which greatly facilitated the mission's work. The mission thanks the
government and everyone who contributed to its work. It thanks the government also for the
excellent cooperation and support provided to it. The mission also thanks WHO, UNICEF and
UNFPA for their valuable contributions. The mission findings and recommendations are
summarized in Section 2 and detailed in the subsequent sections. The aide-memoire reflects the
views of the mission; respective donor agency management views may be conveyed to government
in due course.
II.   SUMMARY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
2.    FPHP has largely achieved its objectives and has had other valuable outcomes. These are:
(i) reduced fertility, (ii) lower morbidity and mortality of children under 5, (iii) improved maternal
care, and reduced maternal morality, (iv) reduced disability and morbidity on account of poverty
related diseases, and (v) improved nutritional status of mothers and children. During the project
period, i.e., 1992 to 1998, Bangladesh achieved impressive decline in fertility and child mortality,
significant decline in severe malnutrition, and substantial successes in addressing communicable
diseases such as TB, Leprosy, diarrhoeal diseases and acute respiratory infections. Life expectancy
at birth increased from 51 to 59.6 years. Such improvements are most likely influenced by other
development efforts, and other efforts within the health sector. However, given the size of FPHP as
a proportion of the total sector spending, it likely had a large effect in achieving these health
improvements. The project had also valuable outcomes not directly related to its formal objectives.
Key ones are: (i) a near consensus and strong political support for major structural reform,
stakeholder participation in policy and program formulation; (ii) greatly improved planning capacity
in the MOHFW; (iii) increased awareness of and some progress in gender issues in the health
sector; and (iv) increased and beneficial collaboration between the government and NGOs. All
these successes need to be sustained and expanded: fertility reduction by improving client focus,
contraceptive mix and continuation rates; and child survival by raising the coverage of Expanded
Program of Immunization (EPI), Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases (CDD), and Acute Respiratory
Infections (ARI). Similarly communicable disease control may be strengthened by broadening and
deepening the FPHP strategies on theses diseases, and improved nutrition by increasing the
coverage of Vitamin A and iron tablets, increased availability of iodized salt, improved behavioural
change communication, and strengthened intersectoral linkages. Gains in WID, stakeholder
participation, and NGO collaboration should be built upon by deepening the present approaches
during the implementation of Health and Population Sector Program, 1998-2003 (HPSP).
Australia, Canada, The European Union, Germany, Japan, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, The United
Kingdom.
35



3.    FPHP has also areas of missed opportunities. Key among these are maternal health services,
program efficiency, and Human Resources Development (HRD). Progress in these has been
modest. Most systems improvement sub-components have little achievement to show. Others did
not take off fully. Several structural and institutional weaknesses, e.g., bifurcated service delivery,
projectized approach, over centralized authority and lack of institutional autonomy, constrained
performance. These weaknesses have been addressed squarely in the design of the HPSP and will be
a focus of HPSP implementation. Another set of issues which impeded progress, especially in the
initial years, includes frequent transfer of project directors, delayed release of budgets and funds,
long delays in approving revised project proformas, and inappropriate use of expensive training.
Some of these administrative issues will be addressed through the HRD component of the HPSP.
The mission recommends focused, and sustained efforts to address the remaining administrative
issues that enervate the system and demoralize good staff.
4.    Overall, as shown by the project results, FPHP implementation has been satisfactory.
However the project, originally planned for five years, took about six and a half to complete. This
was because: (i) full implementation was delayed by almost a year pending finalization of all the co-
financing agreements, and (ii) the project had to be extended by 18 months for reasons not entirely
related to its implementation. This was to prevent a funding gap, for essential services to mothers
and children, between the end of FPHP and the beginning of HPSP which was not ready by the
originally scheduled close of FPHP. By present estimates, at the close of the project, IDA credit of
SDR 133.2 would be fully utilized and co-financing grants will be almost fully utilized except for
some parallel funded activities of DFID and EC.
5.    The Government is fully aware of the need to complete the stage-setting activities and to
avoid disruption in moving from the present project approach to a program approach under HPSP.
To effectively address the structural issues and avoid implementation delays during the initial HPSP
years, the mission recommends that Government may concentrate on key transition issues such as:
(i) preparing detailed plans for unification of service delivery, (ii) shift to the sectorwide approach,
(iii) launching of decentralization and hospital autonomy pilots, and (iv) institutionalization of the
HRD.
6.    FPHP, with its sector-wide scope, has many lessons to offer. Government has incorporated
several key ones in the design of the HPSP. To make the best of the valuable FPHP experience, the
mission recommends an independent, indepth evaluation to be financed and organized by the
consortium, and carried out by October, 1998.
Ill.   PROJECT RESULTS
Summary Conclusions:
7.    This section briefly assesses the achievement of FPHP objectives, describes the other results,
both achievements and missed opportunities, and makes recommendations on sustaining the project
results. A more detailed analysis is in Annex-4.
8.    The health and fertility status objectives of FPHP are more accurately described as goals,
which were most likely strongly influenced by other developmental efforts. However, given the size
36



of the project as a proportion of total sector spending, FPHP likely had a large effect in achieving
progress to these goals.
9.    The indicators for the project period show substantial progress in reducing fertility, infant
and child mortality and malnutrition. They also show more limited, but real, progress in reducing
diseases of poverty. Estimates of maternal mortality widely vary and cannot be used with any
certainty to assess changes in this period. The specific program objective for FPHP, i.e., improved
effectiveness and efficiency of health and family planning services, does not have measurable
indicators. However, the information available does allow a judgment. There was limited success
in achieving this objective.
A.   Achievement of Objectives
10.   i)  Reduced Fertility: In 1991 the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) was 31.2% for
modem methods and 39.9% for any method. By 1997/8, the CPR was 41.6% for
modern methods and 49.2% for any method, an increase of 10 points for both in the
6-year period. Total Fertility Rate (TFR) has now reached 3.2, compared to 4.9 in
1991.
(ii) Lower Morbidity and Mortality of Children under Five: Infant mortality has moved
from 110 per thousand live births in 1991 to 82 (DHS 96-97). Under-five mortality
dropped from 146 per thousand live births in 1991 to 112 in 1997, although female
mortality in the 1-4 year age-group exceeds male mortality by 27%. Life expectancy
has risen from 56.3 in 1992 to 59.6 years in 1997.
(iii) Improved Maternal Care and Reduced Maternal Mortality: Strengthening of services
at Thana Health Complexes (THCs) and district hospitals was not achieved, nor were
improvements in delivery or postnatal care, with the exception of a few pilot projects.
Delivery by trained personnel remained low at 8-10% . Antenatal care remained at
28% of women having one visit, although coverage by one dose of tetanus toxoid rose
from 66% in 1987-92 to 75% of mothers in 1992-6. Maternal mortality was estimated
in 1991 at 6-8 per thousand live births and at 4-8 in 1997. Estimates of maternal
mortality are too uncertain to assess changes in this period, but substantive
improvement is unlikely.
(iv) Lowered Disability and Morbidity Due to Poverty-related Diseases: The TB program
is achieving cure rates of 85%; although case detection rates have risen to 30%, the
male:female ratio of 5:2 is a concern. The leprosy program has succeeded in reducing
social stigma, improving case detection and reducing active cases from 11 per 10,000
in 1990/91 to 3.5 currently. Prevalence and mortality from acute diarrhoeal diseases
has been lowered. However, there is an upsurge in kala-azar, in 13 districts and
malaria is endemic.
(v)  Improved Nutritional Status of Mothers and Children: Moderate and severe childhood
malnutrition decreased from 56% in 1991 to 38% 1996, although overall prevalence
remained at 91% of under-fives. Stunting has decreased by 0.5% every year on average
for the past 10 years. Vitamin A status improved in under-fives; night blindness rates
declined from 3.4% in 1982 to 0.63% in 1998. But night blindness has increased
significantly to over 3% in children over five and pregnant and lactating women.
37



Anemia remained at 62-67% in adults. About 78% of households are consuming
iodized salt, although the impact of this increased use has not been yet evaluated.
FPHP contributed to improved nutritional status through the disease control and
fertility reduction programs, along with the micro-nutrient programs.
(vi) Improved Effectiveness and Efficiency of Family Planning and Health Services: This
was an important and appropriate objective for FPHP, given nearly 20 years of
extensive investment in developing infrastructure, although many sub-components had
very ambitious objectives. Results were mixed. Pilot projects showed areas for
potential change, as well as the need for more profound systemic changes.
B.    Other Results
11.   Successes: A major achievement of FPHP is the near consensus on the need for major
structural change, and an appreciation of the benefits of reform at political levels, and in
government and civil society. An increase in the planning capacity of MOHFW was achieved
through extensive participation in planning the major sectoral investment of HPSP, as well as
through local planning efforts in TFIPP.
12.   FPHP appears to have increased the awareness of gender issues in the implementation of
health and family planning services. There is a need however to strengthen the conceptualization of
gender issues at all levels.
13.   Collaboration between Government and NGOs for implementation of some components was
commendable, and a base for increased policy dialogue was built. There is now a potential to ensure
the effective inclusion of STD management within the public and NGO service systems and to
ensure coordination with the National HIV/AIDS Program. The Health Economics Unit (HEU)
developed considerable in-country capacity, although the trained people were not adequately
utilized, which affected the institutionalization of this function.
14.   Missed Opportunities: The lack of progress in Human Resource Development (HRD) had a
serious effect on the effectiveness and efficiency of service implementation and training programs.
The potential of the Strengthening of Nursing Services (SNES) and Further Improvement of
Medical College (FIMC) projects was substantially compromised by HRD issues, preventing the
full realization of investments in technical assistance, overseas training, and professional
development. Given the difficulties to coordinate training across the sector, insufficient tracking of
utilization and retention of trained personnel, and sub-optimal personnel management and
supervision, the development of capacity in the system was constrained. Lack of capacity
development in HRD at policy level meant that the contribution of HRD to sector reform could not
be adequately articulated.
15.   MIS-Health showed progress in only two of its eight sub-systems, but could not
institutionalize a reliable health information system in MOHFW. The effect of the lack of reliable
information on which to base policy and implementation decisions is real, but hard to assess.
Accordingly, despite some activity, impact was limited.
16.   The Rational Use of Drugs sub-component failed to achieve useful progress, mostly due to
poor project design, its location, and lack of policy support.
38



17.   The project sub-component Urban Primary Health Care was dropped as another donor was
taking this up under a large urban development project. This could be a constraint on the Ministry
of Health closely monitoring the development of urban health and FP services and on aligning these
with the HPSP work.
C.    Sustaining Project Achievements
18.   This will pose a special challenge as the reorganization of MOHFW and the program
approach is undertaken. While some loss of momentum may occur at first, there is a need to ensure
that the important gains of FPHP are protected. These are discussed following the FPHP objectives.
19.   Reduced Fertility: The next program needs clear strategies to correct the skewed focus on
female and non-clinical methods, meet unmet demand, ensure access to menstrual regulation (MR),
improve continuation rates, meet women's other reproductive needs, and to focus on cost-
effectiveness. Further fertility decline is likely to be slower and more dependent on enabling
environment factors requiring intersectoral efforts such as improvements in female literacy,
employment and status of women and child survival.
20.   Infant and Child Mortality and Morbidity: The Integrated Management of Childhood
Illnesses (IMCI) approach shows potential for greater efficiency and effectiveness, although the
ARI component needs special attention. The EPI program must strive to recover and improve the
coverage rates of 1994-95 through attention to disease surveillance, cold chain, service quality, and
BCC to strengthen demand. Careful planning to use resources efficiently as the Government moves
from vertical projects to program approach is needed.
21.   Maternal Health: A comprehensive strategy for maternal health needs to be developed for
HPSP, using the findings from the pilot maternal health care projects, and from gender-aware
research on impediments to use of services. New service standards for antenatal, delivery and
postnatal care are needed. Quality MR services need to be assured.
22.   Since improvement of maternal health is a primary objective of HPSP, all efforts must be
made to obtain accurate baseline and end-of-project figures on mortality, morbidity and process
indicators (utilization of institutions for delivery, reported complications, and case-fatality rates).
23.   Diseases of Poverty: The successes in TB and leprosy control especially show the value of
Government/NGO collaboration. Such collaboration should expand to other service areas, and be
deepened to include policy dialogue on major HPSP issues under the program funding approach.
24.   Nutrition: Vitamin A status in under-fives must be maintained while developing new
effective strategies for older children and women of reproductive age. A review of strategies to deal
with anemia is needed. Continuing availability of non-iodized salt should be addressed. Inter-
sectoral efforts, and links between HPSP and Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) will
need to be strengthened.
25.   Effectiveness and Efficiency of Services: HPSP has been designed to deal with the main
constraints to effectiveness and efficiency experienced under the existing system.
39



26.   Sustaining Progress in WID/Gender: During the first year of HPSP a gender strategy should
be developed, and its institutionalization in all aspects of the program ensured.
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION
27.   Implementation has been generally satisfactorily. Progress on actions agreed with the last
mission, sub-component implementation, procurement, financial status and disbursements, audit
and covenant compliance are briefly reviewed below. A sub-section on implementation constraints
has been added.
A.   Progress on Agreed Actions:
28.   The Schedule of Agreed Actions listed actions to address eight FPHP issues and six sector
issues which required specific actions to be implemented. The former included: (i) implementation
of sub-components, (ii) procurement of contraceptives and essential drugs, (iii) worker targets for
sterilization and IUD, (iv) utilization of unspent funds lying with WHO, (v) WID strategy, (vi)
financing plan, (vii) audit, and (viii) covenant compliance. The Government addressed all these
issues as agreed, except the audit, by implementing the necessary actions. While it progressed on
resolving the outstanding audit paras, it could not complete the work. Sustained concerted action
alone can result in completing the remaining audit work.
29.   The sector issues related to: (i) High-Level Committee's recommendations; (ii)
management capacity appraisal, (iii) HRD; (iv) quality assurance, (v) thana decentralization and
hospital autonomy pilots and (vi) system loss in FP commodities. Government made some progress
on all these issues except on quality assurance. Actions needed to address the first two, i.e. the
High-Level Committee's recommendations and management capacity appraisal, were implemented
on time. HRD strategy report is about to be finalized. The tracking system to retain trained people
in the areas for which they were trained has not been developed. It will be developed under the
personnel information system (PMIS) of the proposed unified MIS. NIPORT has developed
capacity in this area which can be used to advantage. Preparation of pilots for thana
decentralization and hospital autonomy has proceeded slowly, and the pilots will now be launched
from September instead of July 1998. Some progress has also been made on addressing the system
loss in FP commodities but this needs to be pursued on a sustained basis.
30.   This mission requests the government to complete the remaining actions on the sector issues
on a priority basis.
B.    Status of Sub-Component Implementation:
31.   Out of the original 66 sub-components 19 were completed by June 1997 and 8 dropped for
non-performance. The remaining 39 will complete their planned activities by June 1998. Five sub-
components as indicated in para 35 below, will continue some of their activities into the next phase
because of bilateral financing agreements. Detailed implementation status including overall
assessment of each of the ongoing sub-components is in Annex-1.
32.   Overall, project implementation has been satisfactory. However full implementation started
almost a year late after finalizing all the co-financing agreements. Also FPHP had to be extended
by 18 months to prevent a funding gap, between the end of FPHP and the beginning of HPSP which
40



was not ready by the originally scheduled close of FPHP. Therefore, what was planned to be
implemented in five years took about six and half years to complete. Initially, frequent change of
project directors, and delayed approval of revised PPs and release of funds impeded the
implementation of many sub-components. On the whole, while service delivery sub-components
proceeded well, implementation of capacity development sub-components was poor. This was
largely due to a lack of commitment and motivation to implement these sub-components effectively.
Accordingly, sub-components such as the Management Information Systems (Health), Health Care
Quality Assurance, and HRD Master Plan proceeded extremely slowly. Some others such as the
Management Development Unit, Reorganization Study, MCH Coordination Cell, and Urban
Primary Health Care had to be dropped because of poor implementation.
33.   For improving health and reducing fertility, interventions confined to this sector were not
considered sufficient, and so programs in other sectors were undertaken in FPHP. These included:
Inforination and Broadcasting (Population Cells in Radio and Television); women's income
generating activities to enhance the status of women through the Ministry of Women's Affairs,
Social Welfare and Rural Development; Population Development and Evaluation Unit of the
Planning Commission; and the Health and Demographic Survey (Statistics Division). By and large
these sub-components performed satisfactorily.
34.   Several assessments of the sector in the course of implementation of FPHP, including the
Mid-Term Review of the project, identified three key systemic distortions in the sector: (i) the
current bifurcated organization and management structure of the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare; (ii) the traditional fragmented and projectized approach to development activities; and (iii)
over centralized management authority. It is widely accepted now that greater effectiveness can be
achieved if these systemic distortions are adequately addressed. Accordingly the Health and
Population Sector Strategy (HPSS) and the HPSP have directly addressed these issues.
35.   Activities under the following sub-components will be carried on beyond June 30, 1998.
These will be financed from the savings of the respective donors' contribution to FPHP. (i) DFID
will finance Bangladesh Population and Health Consortium (BPHC)INGO Activities, (ii)
Strengthening of Nursing Services and Education, and (iii) Health Economics Unit. AusAID will
consider continuing financing of Rational Use of Drugs and NIPSOM. EC will finance Thana
Functional Improvement Pilot Project (TFIPP) and will also complete the remaining condom
procurement. Sida will similarly continue financing maternal and neonatal health care activities.
All these activities will be completed well within a year.
D.   Procurement:
36.   Procurement for goods, works, and services under the FPHP was originally planned for
US$298 million. During the last supervision mission, it was agreed that funds be diverted from
lower priority activities such as construction to procure essential drugs, contraceptives and supplies.
As of May 31, 1998, total procurement worth $305 million has been completed. Additional
procurement worth about $17 million is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
37.   Government experienced problems with the oral pills procured under the project. It has not
been possible yet to determine precisely the cause of decay in about 2% of the pills. It will be
useful to re-examine and, if necessary, revise the specifications related to packaging (material and
size) of the pills.
41



38.  Implementing comprehensive post-shipment inspections at the central warehouse and all
regional warehouses will strengthen the procurement area. The post shipment inspection would
verify adherence of the supplies to specification (shelf life, packaging), completeness of order, and
quality of supplies by regular sampling and testing.
39.   The mission notes that a serious storage problem has arisen because of large scale recent
delivery of commodities. UNICEF, as part of its program, has organized storage for vaccine.
MOHFW needs to immediately arrange transport of various commodities to the warehouses at
district and thana levels. Project funds may be used for this purpose up to June 30, 1998 following
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
E.   Financial Status and Disbursements
40.   As of March 31, 1998, $683.1 million (91% of the revised project costs of $755.8 million)
had been disbursed under the FPHP. This represented $254.1 million of government contributions,
$180.6 million of IDA credit, and $248.2 million of co-financing grants. By present estimates IDA
credit will be fully utilized, and co-financing grants will almost be fully utilized except for some of
the DFID and EC grants. These would represent DFID and EC's parallel funded activities. The
disbursement status and requirements by sub-component for the remaining period are in Annex 2,
Table 1.
41.   Based on the review of expenditure to date, only small amounts of co-financing grants will
remain unspent (Annex 2, Table 2 and 3). These could be spent during the next phase on the
activities these grants are financing presently. In addition, $3.12 million (including $0.85 million
interest income) lying with the World Health Organization (WHO) will remain unspent. WHO
needs to return IDA share of $715,343 immediately for further disbursements under the project.
The balance of CIDA grants of $200,971 under the sub-components of MIS-Health and MIS-FP
needs to be returned to IDA administered CIDA Trust Account. This will be used for procurement
of Oral Pills during the next phase. The remaining balances totalling $1.35 million may be utilized
during the next phase for activities which the respective donors are currently financing. WHO is
requested to immediately prepare proposals together with government for utilizing the above
balance ($1.35 million) and the interest income ($0.85 million). Since NORAD will not be a
member of the consortium after June 30, 1998, Government should take up the utilization of their
remaining funds, through the Bank, with NORAD.
42.   Disbursement under the credit would be eligible only if the expenditures are incurred (that
is, payments have been made or payments are due for goods, works and services that have been
provided including their acceptance) on or before the Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1998. The
Bank may on a case by case basis, agree to allow a grace period of up to a maximum of four months
after the Closing Date for submission of withdrawal applications against eligible expenditures.
However, during the grace period, only expenditures incurred prior to June 30, 1998 will be eligible
for disbursements.
F.    Audit:
43.   The mission notes that since the August 1997 mission, Government has resolved 10
observations relating to the Third Project leaving 7 outstanding. It has also resolved 29
observations relating to FPHP for the years 1992-93 to 1995-96, leaving 45 unresolved. While
Government has made some progress during the last ten months, it was not able to, as agreed with
42



the last review mission, resolve all outstanding observations relating to the Third Project by
December 1997 and all outstanding observations relating to the first four years of FPHP by March
1998. It is very distressing to know that audit observations relating to the Third Project still remain
outstanding. The mission sought seek assurance from the government and the government agreed
that all outstanding audit observations for the Third Project and for first four years of FPHP (FY92-
93 to FY95-96) will be resolved by December 1998. To prevent jeopardizing a smooth flow of
funds from the Bank and the cofinanciers to the HPSP, it will be necessary to achieve this deadline.
44.   IDA has received the audit report for FY96-97. Government may also complete the audit
and submit the audit report for FY97-98 on time.
G.   Covenants:
45.   The FPHP had 33 covenants. These have been complied with, in a few cases after some
delay., Governments' preparation of a large health sector reform has resulted in meeting the
compliance requirements of some of the covenants. The last supervision mission identified 3
covenants as outstanding. These have been similarly complied. Details are in Annex-3.
H.   Implementation Constraints:
46.   The work during the last two years on the Health and Population Sector Strategy and the
formulation of the HPSP has facilitated for the govermment to address a number of constraints for
the future. Areas that are being addressed in the future reform package, such as unification of the
bifurcated organization structure and a shift to the program approach, will not be repeated here.
Effectiveness of such reforms will be monitored closely during HPSP implementation.
47.   An area that suffers from serious implementation constraints is HRD. The fragmentation of
FPHP has resulted in a multitude of uncoordinated training activities with much duplication. Job
descriptions need to be finalized and training programs matched with the needs of the sector
program. Another serious problem is the frequent transfer of fellows and trainees into positions
where their skills and knowledge cannot be utilized.
48.    The design of the delivery strategy in FPHP lacked the consumer focus and depended on
worker targets. Quality control has focused solely on technical quality and quantity of services and
not on the consumers' perceptions and needs. This has resulted in underutilization of public
services, particularly by women clients. Lack of attention to the facilities and to an effective
incentive system focusing on quality and local accountability, has led to poor maintenance of
facilities, absenteeism, unauthorized service fees, and system losses resulting in shortage of drugs
and supplies. The solution might lie in decentralization and local accountability. Lack of insight
and knowledge about the gender issues at all levels has hampered genuine attention to the gender
dimension.
49.   An important fact behind these shortcomings in project management is that mechanisms for
utilizing research results and other available systematic knowledge are insufficiently developed in
the program. Active search for feedback from the community has been scanty and will need more
attention in the HPSP.
43



50.   The bifurcation of the MIS system into FP and Health and its inefficiency as a management
tool is being addressed in the HPSP. However, the computerized data retrieval and processing
systems are being developed separately for family welfare and health respectively, with insufficient
attention to compatibility aspects in forthcoming integration of the two systems.
51.   Financial management and implementation of procurement and technical assistance have
been constrained by overly bureaucratic systems of government, the executing agencies and the
donors. The structural and managerial changes in the MOHFW will expectedly address many of
these problems in the future. In the first year of HPSP, there is a risk that such constraints will
become even more serious and would need to be guarded against.
V.    TRANSITION ISSUES
52.   The first years of HPSP will be a period of transition both in terms of structure and
functioning of the program. Detailed planning is needed to address key reform issues. These
include unification of service delivery; shift from the present projectized to a sectorwide approach;
launching of decentralization and hospital autonomy pilots; and institutionalization of the HRD.
Important key issues requiring close attention during this period include:
-   ensuring well-functioning channels for coordination among different parts of the new
structure;
-   providing managerial guidance throughout the system and information about decisions
taken;
-   using the experiences of the FPHP sub-components in NGO collaboration and training;
-   monitoring closely the changes needed in the logistics, M.I.S. and BCC systems to
prevent negative effect on on-going activities, e.g. contraceptive supplies, community
clinics, etc.
-   monitoring key ongoing activities, including family planning, polio eradication, child
survival programs to ensure that there is no decline in performance, and to take
corrective action as needed;
-   monitoring closely the transitional institutional arrangements including financial
mechanisms.
44



VI.   KEY LESSONS
53.   Previous missions have analysed some of the lessons learned from this project over the years.
The design process for the Health Sector Program has taken account of them. Given the importance of
some of these for the envisaged reform process, the mission would re-emphasizes the following:
*     Despite the severe resource constraints, it is possible to reach most of the objectives of a
Health/FP program provided adequate funding can be provided, the implementation is
reasonably flexible, and the activities are result-oriented.
*     Activities and strategies that are simple and straightforward - in technical and/or managerial
sense - are approached vertically and intensively, meet the objectives early. Examples are
immunization programs and doorstep delivery of contraceptives. On the other hand, services
which require a functioning referral system and well trained service providers, e.g. safe
motherhood and clinical contraception, are lagging.
*     Both the structure and the management of health systems are vital components that, to a great
extent, determine the efficiency and the cost-effectiveness of programs. Parallel systems can be
made to work effectively provided that funding is adequate. However, funding in itself does not
guarantee the co-operation and co-ordination needed to make more difficult components such as
safe motherhood programs effective and sustainable.
*     In a highly centralized system individual managers are the ones who have the power to make a
project successful or unsuccessful. This underlines the need for a careful selection of the key
managers and constant interest of the higher echelons in keeping up the commitment and the
quality of the management.
*     Inappropriate and/or counterproductive structural arrangements of services can be overcome
with extraordinary managerial efforts. However, this mode of work is costly, unsustainable and
frustrating for the managers. The ones who have to pay these costs are first the clients, who do
not get quality services or any services at all, and second the government which does not get the
expected return from its large investments.
Vil. NEED FOR PROJECT EVALUATION
54.   Given the size and scope of FPHP, there will be important lessons to be learned from an
independent and in-depth evaluation. The evaluation could focus on the impact of FPHP as a
whole, and cover key policy issues and sub-components for special review. It could also assess the
implementation and effect of the Mid-Term Review recommendations. The mission recommends
that such an evaluation be started soon and completed by the end of December 1998. The
consortium should finance and organize the evaluation based on the TORs to be agreed with the
government.
45



Vili. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
55.   An implementation completion report (ICR) is required for each lending operation. IDA
will start the process of preparing the ICR shortly and will complete the draft ICR by October 1998.
Government is required to prepare its own final evaluation report, which will be included in the
ICR. This report should include the following:
(i)   an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operational experience;
(ii)  an evaluation of the government's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant
in the future;
(iii)  an evaluation of the performance of the Bank, cofinanciers and executing agencies during
the evolution and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the
relationship among Government, Bank, cofinanciers and executing agencies.
55.   The mission requests the government to complete its evaluation report by September 1998.
46



Apperdix B
A Review of Bangladesh
Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHP)
Intrnduetior:
This report seeks to review the situation prevailing during the formulaton and
implemenation of the Fourth Population and Health Project i= BangladeiW(1992-98). It
attempts to address the, following spec.ific areas Ehat had fearured during the FPHP and
facilitated it.s logical ransition to. the- newly adopted Health and Population Sector program
(HPSP- 1 998-2003):
A.   Development concerns and health issues that were emerging during formulation and
implementation period of the FPHP locally and globally.
B.    Government and donor interface with.regaxd to the project implementation specially
in respect of project formulation, program Supervision and Monitoring, procurement
of supplies and provision of Technical assistance etc.
C.   Review of program achievements and weaknesses.
D.   Refocussing and redirection of project efforts.
E.    Lessons learned from FPHP period and their relevence to the subsequently developed
Heath and Population Sector Strategy (aPSS) and finally to the Health and
Population Sector Program (HPSP).
Hackground Emer,ing Sarial Develonment ScenariQ:
The Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHPY supported by IDA aud Co-financiers was
implemented during the period 1992-98. There were altogether eIev'en Co-fimasnciers and
some bi-lateral agencies including soie UN technical agencies.
The decade of Nineties began with a growing understanding and emergence of newer social
development issues including new areas of concern and the imperatives of their solutions. As
the decade progressed and with the operational experieuces of the newly adopted social
interventions, it was seriously felt that stuccural and operational reforms must be undertaken
to successfully meet social objecdives and goals. The issues of womens in development,
gender dimensions in the social sectors, eradication of illiteracy, poverty alleviation,
adolescent and youth health problems, need for more specific maternal care for reduction of
maternal mortality and morbidiryFreproductive health care, urban health problems, figured
promintly during this period. Concurenly in the international front also these issues got
currency and- stang advocacy *as-aced  arround rhe globe to address these issues.
Particularly 1994 Cairo International Conference on Population and Development (ICPDI94),
Bali and Beijing Conferences, held earlier, sent ripples accross Xie counties of the World.
Like many other countries Bangladesh Government also had to respond to the emerging
needs. In rhe Health and Family Welfare Sector a number of projects had to be adopted,
47



some were subsequendy re-shaped & modified and many dropped comusurate with the felt
needs. From about 108 initially adopted projects, PHPS was later re-orjanized into 66
individual sub-projects.
There were important gains in the overal social sectors of the country during the decade of
Ninties.  Womens involvement in prodictive activities brought positive changes in the
economy, garment industry which -is prodominandy- run by fimaie workers, shifip
processing, toiletries, poultry raising etc. wbere female workers were engaged in. large
numbers had relaEively performd beter thian other economic activities. During this period
literacy drives gained momenrum, fisheries and poultries flourished, well,  rtanspration.
pgicularly road ransportation, rural electrification progressed must faster drmtitheperiod.
Ia the Health and Populition Sector also a number of gains/successes were recorded =ost
notably in the areas, of fertlity decline as well as in the reduction of infanx and child
morraliry. The FPlIP implementation environment, however, was characterized by a number
of major procedural and structural impediments such as delayed project approval procedures,
delay in the credit effectiveness, delay in find release, in the international procurement and
in the provision of TA etc. Since FPHP was a very large project, providing support vdrtually
to all aspects of health and family welfare program, better coordination and more closer
sense of parnership between, the government and donors could possibly have avoided many
of the implementation bottlenecks. However, ma.y of the problems were addressed and
resolved during the later part of the FPHP and in the course of formulation of the newly
adqpted Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP).
Trmulementation ExpcriJeace
n dte implemnentaion of che PPHP the essenial Partners were the GOB, IDA-led donors
consortium and the Executig Agencies A Brief review and analysis of the respective role
played by the important three parties could possibly provide better insight, lessons and
gidance for the fuiure parmership approach.
Government took the initiative in the project preparation and the project proposals as
appraised by the donor consortium. Government effort was led by the plannin cells of the
Ministry and the Directorates. The procedure includes a first compilation of possible
projects for consideration wbich was followed by a series of working groups involving
government staff, cnsortium meLmers and few other concerned organization including
NGOs.   The  level of program  impact achieved  indicated  considerable program
accomplishments. Three types of procedural consaints stood in the way of governm's
ability to implement the project smoothly. These are (a) Cumbersome and time-consuming
procedures for approval of project; (b) delays in the release of ftud,and (e) bifurcation of
serice delivery between Family Planning and Health  services  Government's ability to
procure improved during the FPHP. The Project Finae  Cell has performed well in the
compiltdon and submission of disbursement applications. The IDA credit of SDR 133.2
million was fully utilized and co-inancing fund was also fully utlized. Government wai
fully aware of its obligations and were more commicted to meet the audit observations in time
to facilitate speedy find flow.
48



Government performance, specially, with regard to the modifications of the FP#P,
implementation of ICPD recommendations and follow up actions and other initiati,s sand
subsequently in  respect of the -preparaton of SPSS and HPSP indicates Wts senrousness,
co==r , and rhe sense of owDrship.
4DA helped in the project preparadon by the government extendin4 necessary assisunce in
the co-ordination and preparation of needed background documents  d  reports.-DA
performed well as the leader of the consortium maintaining the proper donor co-ordination.
It may, -however, be mentioned tiat IDA fielded spervision Missions too frequently,
apparently to help the government identify the -implementation bottleneck.s and teir
resolutions. Too many visits by the IDA Missions kept mbst of the desk officers busy
preparng background maerials and po4ition papers, causmg at aimes disruptiou in the neimal
project implementaiton works.
At times donor's competion became apparent. IDA's coordination role in this respect needs
to be firther strengthened to hendle this type of situation.
Rgle of thgEecuntji# Ag~~e
WHO served as the major executing agency. WHO's role, however, constrained by its
internal procedures, resulted in the delay in the recruinnent of consultants and shipment of
equipments.
A substntial amount placed under WHO remained non-utiIized under prouremen, training
and TA heads. Moreover, Project Finance Cell, often did not receive information about
WHO accounts timely as such regular reconciliation could not be mad in time.
WHO's recruitment and utilization of TAs were at times found not appropriat  atnd
sometimes TAs were fielded without prior preparation.  There was, naubstantz.v&
inttutionalization of TA quality assurance mechanism.
Procurement. of Drugs and MSR, Storage and distribution process were one of the areas of
concern in PPIP and the role of the CMSD and its network of Divisional and District
Warehouses were nOt clearly spelt out. Executing Agency could not provide any meaingful
assistance and guidance in this respect.
UTNICEF's lengthy procedure delayed the procurement of DDS Kits for about a year in 19.96-
97 affecting the service dispensations.' Untimely bulk. procurement, done subsequenly, by
UNICEF caused storige problems which. had to be resolved by the government taking loan
from Family Plannig Logistic Management (FPLM) a bi-lawral projeet.
Pre-shifinent and Post-shftnent inspection systems should have been 'i-p or' the
procurement of the supplies like oral pill. Insances of melting and crumbling of low :Aose
pill were reported from the field.
49



The HEPE achieved many of its objectives,-notable ones are in the areas of ferdlity decline
and in the reducti  of infant and child mortlity. The TF, wenr down from 4.3 in 1989/90
to 3.3 in.199617. The BAR and CNM  bad declined to 72.8-and 116 per 1000 from a level of
96 and 139 in 1929/90 respectively. TB antd leprosy case finding and cure,rate increased
substantially during the period. TT immunization for pregnant mothers improved from 66%7
iTi 1992 to 75% in 1998, Vit A distibution increased from 49% inu 1993/4 to 641% inl 1996/7
Contrceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) increased from40%  in. 1991 to almost 50% in 1996/7.
The introduction of low dose pill has relieved a loc of complicaions/quality of care issues.
.-utrinon used a number of srracegies to promote breast feeding and in the use, of Iodized salt.
iNutrition activities were later folded in co a large integrated naEional project.
Good progresses have been recorded in the child health measures l;ke CDD, ART and vit A.
distribution programs.
Apart from the above, successess have been achieved in a number of areas including Health
Service utilization, Program management and support services.
95% of the people knew that they had a field worker in. thir community and 91% knew
about a satellite clinic.
It is worth noting that appreval of Family Planning is now very wide - spread with 90%
couples approving and both husband and wife disapproving in only 1.2% of cases.
The implementation of satellite clinics as a form of oucreach services has increased during
PP3P with 70% of couples reporting to such a clinic in the community in 1996/7 compAred
to 54 % three years earlier.
The estimated 'unmet need' for FP found in BDH survey 1996/7 was 16% down from 19%
three years earlier.
The Oral Rehydration therapy (ORT) use race has risen to 76 percent currenly (Progodr
PaEhe-UTNICEF).
The FPPHP showed good progress in reducing ARI prevalence (from  24%, to 1s %)
respectively in children (BDHS 1993/94, and 1996i97). AIR  care seeking behaviour has
improved from. a level of 24% in 1993/94 to 36% in 1996/97.
Contraceptives and vaccine supplies have remained satisfactory. Stock outs were few as a
result FP and EPI responsibilities were largely fulfilled during the FPHP.
Significant increase in program planting competence andl capacity have been. achieved over
che later years of FPEP. Prepadaai.9.w=k programs (wi-i    bounad argets) has
become more widespread over the past two- years R-FPI1IP.
Professional regulation for the nursing and allied professions has been strengthened during
FPEP. Although KI1D rmater plan, was noc prepared the HRD strategy Is a Lisefull document
for HPSP.                     -
50



The survey based daa colection systems including EDS, DHS, .sen;rl (epidemiological).
dlam gathering and special surveys by research nstitutons have fbcdoned well during FPEP.
.The performance of  rvice stadsdcs systems remained more variable. PP-MIS established a
resonably good data gabing and aalysis system while health data gathering Wroved but
data compilation, proceming and analysis.sdil needs mpoven
MMS system Designs have been prepared for both  P   IS and Health MIS, Perso'nel
hifotnation sysem have ~e  initiated in both the MIS.
rhe RIBEC ilative (ouside FM) is contributing  to the estabWhnFn:r of an ffective
inanciat management system.
During th latter stages of FPHP major advances have bcen made in Ihe formWation of bealth*
poLicies. thse include dhe HPSS, the Natonal Reproductive Halth Strategy, the Natioial
AIDS policy and the national health policy (which is nw being finalized).
Working relatonship between government and NGOs have improved during FPHP. 'Ihe
strrengthening of GOINGO relationships was occurred on a recogition of common purposes
and of dhe respective roles of the public sector and NGOs. Gendr d bffrntal in respect of
health sisics and needs have narrowed durng FPP  period i some important re6pecs
(life expectncy). - Government has initiated covering gender dimeion  in the media
Waterials like posters. Pamphlets, films etc. The capacities in MOHFW have been
strengthened through establishment of a Gender Issues Office. The incidence of ill heat
appears to have gone down across all social stra  during FPHP period.
51



SI. No. Indictors                     Unit            1991            1997
1.     Crude Birh Rate            /1000 Pop.          31.6'         . 60
2.     Crud Death Ram          * 1000 Pop.            11.2'           7.6 D
3.      Population Growth Rate         %             2_06____        1.73%9
4.    j Infant Mortality Rate   /1000 live births     91.0'   -_    72.8S
5.      Mafernal Mortality Rate   /1000 live births   4.7'            4.4w
6.      Contraceptive Prevalece        %     _       39.9%C          49.2%"
Rate           -                                         _    _.
7.      Toa Fertlity Rate          Per woman          4.3; 3.3"
8.      Life Bxpectancy at Birth    Years at birth    56.1            59.5
*9.    EPI (under 1 yr)          % coverage (all
-BCG                          it              85%            - 91%
Oral Polio                   .                              68%
- Measles                                                     62%
- TT                                                          .92%
*10.  1 Control of TB
- Case Finding          Total population      155.            80%
(% coverage)
- Treatnent Success      Detected cases       <40%            80%
*11.   Elimination of Leprosy
- Estimated Prevalence    /10,000 Pop.         13              3.5
- Deformity Rate         Detected Cases       >30%           11.7%
Sources:
a = Swtistical Pocket book, Bangla4esh, 1997, BBS, Ministy of Plannig.
b= Bangladesh at a glance, June 1998, BBS, Ministry of Planning.
c= Bangladesh Conzraceptve Prevalence Survey, 1991, Mitra & Associates
d= Bangladesh Demographic Health Survey, 1996/97, NIPORT, MOHFW.
* Source DG, Health.
While there were some impresive suscesses iL most of the areas thee had been weakiaes
and failures in a number of areas also duaing the FPHP:
During the FPHP the level of antenatal care remained virmally unchanged at 25% womed-
recewing aneemtal care from a medlcly mained person (Doctor, Nhrse or Trained midwle).
(BDHs 1996/97).
52



The utlization of BOC services remained very limited, especially, in the Manal and
Neonatal Health Project due to non receipt of equipment, absence of inastructural facilities
and inadequate referrals. Moreover EOC servies program plaming was also faulty. Donors
commzied ftmd for training oxly and not for facility developmME  In contrast MCWCs wre
able to develop EOC capacity beuer, An excellenr MCWC operatiodl manual was
developed wbich also defned standards of care for the reproductive health component
appropriate to the level. The slow progress of Maternal and Neonatal Pr_ctin FPHP led tc
a shift to the .promoticn of wider emergency obstutic care iuphased manner in MCWCs,
Dist. Hospitals and THCs.
The male FP methods (condom and vasectomy) have remained still a low priority  uring
FPHP. Although some gains have been made in condom use but low vasectomy use has
remained unchanged.
Malaria and kala - azar- have recorded relatively low progress due to problem  in the
procurement of insecticides.
Although FPCST  continued to provide guidance on quality -assurance  In -clinical
contraception leading to reduction in contraceptive attributable mortality this area still
remained problematic leading to lower use in the method mix.
Despite serious government iniative in the area. gender appraisal could not yet be made a
regular part of data gathering and planning process..
Existence of vertical projects created a number of implementation, problems namely:
Processing and approval procedures of individual sub-projects were cembersome and
time-consuming.
-.    Diverse and inconsistent financial mangement systems operating during FPHP
Vertical projects had some-tis led principal district and ana managers being by
passed.
Effective strategies for overall managemem trainin  in the health sectors are still
inadequate.
Refptmd-lng and RO Aireeflan nr I~ofet GCws ah id Efarts
In 1995 a midterm Review of FPHP took place. Major issues identifted related to udlization
of services, questions of cost effectiveness, sustainabiliry, quality of services, fragmented
implementation structure, paricularly, with regard to the disassociation   of sectotal
development projects from MOHW line mangers under the GOB revenue budget. Based
on  the findings  of the mid-tem   review  and FPHP  implementation  experiences
recommendations for issues to be addressed dur:g the remainder of the FP*P  were
refocussed as follows:
Rationalizing service delivery  systems through  reorganization  of MOHlW's
implementing structures to eliminate duplicative systems and minimize inefficiencies.
53



Improving management ebrough (I) capacitY development, (ii) human resource
development. (iii) effective bangement information systems and (iv) aplications
of lessons from imnovative projects; and
Developing a comprehensive nationil rei&pdve bailth strategy inclduing family
planning, maternal health care STD/AIDS..control d other reproductive services. A
broad based agreement on the shape of healih and population based programmes was
reached during a GOBdnor consultation held in Paris in September 1995.
Lex-gons Lear!ned and TragSWoin ttn TTSS and HPMP
Lessons learned from the FPEP and Previous sectoral projects may be summarised in some
key areas, described below,
Adherence to a mangeable number of program cqmponents.
Establish and adhere to clear sectoral priorities, focussed on basic services and
limiting funding of lower priority activities.
Need for harmonisadon  of the Parallel Systems of "'ealth' and 'Family Welfare'
services to promote efficiency.
Critical link between reproductive health and women's  access to comprehensive
integrated services.
Health should be linked to a poverty reduction strategy including education.
Need for cost effectiveness and efficiency in view pf scarce resources,
- EOphasis on community involvenenr in the preparation and implementation of the
programme.
Disadvantage __of project approach with regard to approval procedures, service
despensadions, refcrals, administracve and&6nancial management etc.
Benefit of sector-wide management in respect of avoidance of duplication, provision
of comprehensive services and 'one-stop services', complementarity of basic health
and maternal services'.
More operational flexibit for the local offices of the donors and executing
agencies is needed to respond quickly to the implementation problems encountered by
.the GOB. This may be resolved by delegating more operational decision mEing
authority to the local offices.
54



A joint interview by the executing agency and the GOB representative could
ensure recruitmeit of beter expaEriace consultants, needed for the project activities.
Procurement ability could be further impro.ved by preparation and adherence ta
itrong procurement plan, establishment -of standing committees and
perf6ormance audits during project implemenation.
Based on lessons learned and in the context of the prevailing scenario Health and Population
Sector Strategy (HPSS) was formulated to reform the health and populailoa sector for
providing a package of essential health care services for improvement of basic health cate and
decline of fertility in Bangladesh. A number of reforms in the healkh sector particularly in the -
areas of management structure, the service delivery mechanisms and utilizAtion of both public
and private sector resources have been initiated. In order to keep in line with sector-wide
approach as against project approach in FPIP, the health and population sectors have been
combined under the Fifth-Five Year Plan as one sector and che Health and Population Sector
Programme (HPSP), wbich is a sector mivestment plan, has been formulatesd and put to
implementation from 1st July 1998.
55



