Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2259 BD
(Fourth Population and Health Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2259 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Australia, acting 
through the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (Australia) a grant 
(the Australian Grant) in an amount of A$12,000,000 to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Australian Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Australia;
       (C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Belgium, acting 
through the Belgian International Cooperation and Development Agency (Belgium) a grant 
(the Belgian Grant) in an amount of BFr 100,000,000 to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Belgian Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Belgium;
       (D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Canada, acting 
through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) 
in an amount of Can$60,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
Page  2
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Canada;
       (E)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commission of the European 
Economic Communities (EEC) a grant (the EEC Grant) in an amount of ECU 38,750,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the EEC Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
EEC;
       (F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany, acting through the Deutsche Gesellschaft f\1ar Technische 
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and the Kreditanstalt f\1ar Wiederaufbau (KfW), grants (the GTZ 
Grant and the KfW Grant, respectively) in the respective amounts of DM 22,500,000 and 
DM 40,000,000, to assist in financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the GTZ Grant Agreement and the 
KfW Financing Agreement, respectively) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federal Republic of Germany;
       (G)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Japanese Economic Cooperation 
Bureau (Japan) a grant (the Japanese Grant) in an amount of \1a 1,250,000,000 to assist 
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Japan;
       (H)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Netherlands' Minister for 
Development Cooperation (the Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount 
of DFl 40,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Royal Netherlands Government;
       (I)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Norway, acting through the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) a 
grant (the NORAD Grant) in an amount of NKr 200,000,000 to assist in financing part of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Norway;
       (J)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Sweden, acting through the Swedish International Development Authority (Sweden) a 
grant (the Swedish Grant) in an amount of SKr 85,000,000 to assist in financing part 
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swedish 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Sweden;
       (K)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, acting through the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) a 
grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount of \1a 12,000,000 to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland;
       (L)
Australia and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the 
Australian Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process applications 
for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by Australia 
and the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in 
connection with such financing;
       (M)
Belgium and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the 
Belgian Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process applications for 
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by Belgium and 
the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection 
with such financing;
       (N)
Canada and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the 
Canadian Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process applications 
for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by Canada and 
the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection 
with such financing;
       (O)
EEC and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the EEC 
Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process applications for 
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by EEC and the 
Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with 
such financing;
Page  3
       (P)
the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Association intend to enter into 
an agreement (the Netherlands Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to 
process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided 
severally by Netherlands and the Association and regulating certain other matters of 
common interest in connection with such financing;
       (Q)
the Kingdom of Norway and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement (the Norwegian Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally 
by Norway and the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest 
in connection with such financing;
       (R)
the Kingdom of Sweden and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement (the Swedish Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally 
by Sweden and the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest 
in connection with such financing;
       (S)
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
Association intend to enter into an agreement (the United Kingdom Agreement) making 
arrangements for the Association to process applications for withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by United Kingdom and the 
Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with 
such financing; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
       (a)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year, commencing July 1 
and ending June 30;
       (b)
"eight medical colleges" means the following medical colleges of the 
Borrower: Dhaka Medical College, Sir Salimullah Medical College, Mymensingh Medical 
College, Chittagong Medical College, Osmani Medical College (Sylhet), Rangpur Medical 
College, Rajshahi Medical College and Shere-Bangla Medical College (Barisal);
       (c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
       (d)
"taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred thirty three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 133,200,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
       (b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
convertible taka a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2011 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
       (c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, population planning, medical and public health practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
       (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
Page  6
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
       (a)
Any of the Australian, Belgian, GTZ, Japanese, the Netherlands, Swedish, 
and United Kingdom Grant Agreements shall have failed to become effective by July 1, 
1992, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
       (b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
       (a)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur, 
subject to the proviso; and
       (b)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement shall 
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
       (a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CIDA, EEC, KfW, and 
NORAD Grant Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement;
       (b)
the Project Proformas for carrying out the Project have been approved by 
the Borrower;
       (c)
the Mother and Child Health Coordination Cell has been established in 
accordance with paragraph 22 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
       (d)
the transportation arrangements referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement has been established.
       Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary or any Joint Secretary, 
Page  7
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Economic Relations Division
             Ministry of Finance
             Government of the People's
               Republic of Bangladesh
             Dhaka, Bangladesh
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   BAHIRSAMPAD              642226 SETU BJ
                   Dhaka
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                             By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works             42,310,000        90%
Page  8
(2)   Equipment               19,090,000        100% of foreign
      (including                                expenditures,
      furniture) and                            100% of local
      vehicles                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Medical and             20,270,000        100% of foreign
      biological supplies                       expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(4)   Consultants'            16,200,000        100%
      services
(5)   Training                12,590,000        100%
      and fellowships
(6)   Incremental              4,520,000        25% in FY92,
      salaries and                              20% in FY93,
      allowances                                15% in FY94,
                                                10% in FY95
                                                and 5% in FY96
(7)   Incremental              8,440,000        30%
      operating costs
(8)   Unallocated              9,780,000
           TOTAL             133,200,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)
the term "incremental salaries and allowances" means salaries and 
allowances of new female health and family planning workers employed under the 
Project; and
       (d)
the term "incremental operating costs" excludes compensation payments to 
clients.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (i) reducing 
fertility, (ii) lowering morbidity and mortality in children under five years of age, 
(iii) improving maternal care and reducing maternal mortality, (iv) reducing 
disability, morbidity and mortality due to poverty related diseases such as 
tuberculosis, leprosy and goiter, (v) enhancing the nutritional status of women and 
children, and (vi) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of family planning, 
maternal and child health and other health services.
Page  9
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the B Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening Family Planning and Mother and Child Health Service 
Delivery
1.     Improving Access to Family Planning and Mother and Child Health Services
       (a)
Strengthening outreach services by recruitment, filling of vacancies, and 
training of female health and family planning workers.
       (b)
Strengthening of selected Family Welfare Centers by recruitment and 
training of about 2,000 family welfare visitors.
       (c)
Strengthening of the supervisory capacity of the Borrower's Family 
Planning Directorate, including recruitment of family planning officers.
       (d)
Acquisition of contraceptives and other family planning supplies, medical 
and surgical equipment, drugs and other related equipment, and vehicles; financing of 
salaries and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
2.     Strengthening Mother and Child Health Services
       (a)
Strengthening satellite clinics including training and supervision of 
staff of Family Welfare Centers and Upazila Health Complexes.
       (b)
Acquisition of essential drugs and of drug and dietary supplement kits, 
mother and child health kits, and midwifery kits for clinics including satellite 
clinics, family welfare c centers, maternal and child welfare centers, and mother and 
child health units; financing of salaries and allowances; and acquisition of 
equipment, other supplies, and vehicles.
3.     Enhancing Clinical Service Delivery, and Family Planning and Mother and Child 
Health Quality 
Assurance
 
       (a)
Strengthening of family planning and mother and child health services by 
improvement of the Family Planning Clinical Surveillance Teams.
       (b)
Provision of family planning clinical services at institutional 
facilities and through outreach programs.
       (c)
Strengthening of the Mohamedpur Fertility Services and Training Center, 
including construction of facilities and training of staff.
       (d)
Introduction of laparoscopic techniques, implant programs, non-scalpel 
vasectomies, and other contraceptive technologies, after evaluation, at government and 
non-government clinics, including training of relevant staff, and financing of 
information, education and communication activities.
       (e)
Acquisition of intrauterine device kits, drugs, equipment, spare parts, 
supplies, and vehicles; financing of salaries and allowances; and provision of 
technical assistance.
4.
In-service Training of Upazila and District Staff in Family Planning and Mother 
and Child 
Health
 
       (a)
Strengthening of the National Institute of Population Research and 
Training, including recruitment and training of staff, and construction of facilities.
       (b)
Training of family planning and health staff and of traditional birth 
attendants.
       (c)
Acquisition of equipment, supplies, and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
5.
Construction and Renovation of Family Planning and Mother and Child Health 
Facilities
       (a)
Construction of about 100 family welfare centers, upgrading of about 500 
rural dispensaries, and maintenance of such facilities.
Page  10
       (b)
Renovation and upgrading of the Maternal and Child Health Training 
Institutes at Azimpur and Lalkuti.
       (c)
Strengthening of the Procurement Cell at the Borrower's Family Planning 
Directorate and of the Logistics Management Information System, including recruitment 
and training of staff, and construction of additional storage for family planning and 
medical supplies.
       (d)
Acquisition of equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
6.     Private Sector Contraceptives Marketing
       Acquisition of condoms for social marketing distribution through the Social 
Marketing Company of Bangladesh and other suitable organizations.
Part B:      Strengthening Health Service Delivery
1.     Comprehensive Maternal and Neonatal Health Care Pilot Project
       (a)
Establishment of a comprehensive maternal and neonatal health care 
service in four selected Districts, one from each Division, including training of 
health personnel, carrying out of operational research, evaluation of measures taken 
under this Part of the Project, and production of information, education and 
communication materials.
       (b)
Acquisition of drugs, equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of 
salaries and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
2.     Strengthening Nursing and Medical Education
       (a)
Construction and rehabilitation of facilities at the College of Nursing, 
nursing institutes, continuing education centers, and rural health care training 
centers; curriculum development and acquisition of library teaching materials.
       (b)
Upgrading and rehabilitation of the Mymensingh, Rajshahi, Salimullah and 
Sylhet medical college hospitals, including creation of mother and child welfare 
outpatient rooms and children's wards with about twenty beds each, acquisition of 
essential mother and child health equipment, and recruitment of staff.
       (c)
Renovation of facilities at the Borrower's eight medical colleges, and 
construction of hostel facilities with about 50 units each for female students at the 
Barisal, Chittagong, Mymensingh, Salimullah and Sylhet medical colleges.
       (d)
Strengthening of the Borrower's eight medical colleges' departments of 
obstetrics and pediatrics and their model clinics, including development of preventive 
mother and child health services and training, acquisition of obstetric equipment and 
supplies, and related journals and books, and provision of language training and study 
tours.
       (e)
Strengthening of the departments of community medicine in the Borrower's 
eight medical colleges, including training of teachers, renovation of field training 
sites, construction of a field training site for the Sher-e-Bangla Medical College, 
and provision of study tours and fellowships for staff.
       (f)
Strengthening of the capacity of the Center for Medical Education to 
produce teaching materials and prepare teacher training manuals.
       (g)
Establishment of a quality assurance system for medical care and of a 
resource center at the Center for Medical Education and at about fourteen health 
institutions at the field level, including development of manuals and training of 
medical professionals.
       (h)
Establishment of a pilot community-oriented medical education program at 
a medical college other than at the Dhaka or Chittagong medical colleges, including 
training of health teams.
       (i) 
Establishment of an Institute for Mother and Child Health with clinical 
facilities in a semi-rural area, including construction of facilities, acquisition of 
maternal and pediatric care equipment, mother and child health supplies and training 
supplies, and training of health and family planning personnel.
Page  11
       (j)
Strengthening the National Institute of Preventive and Social Medicine, 
including construction and renovation of facilities, upgrading of the library, 
financing of health service research, and recruitment of staff.
       (k)
Carrying out, at the National Institute of Preventive and Social 
Medicine, of a special project on the rational use of drugs, including acquisition of 
drug management materials, and recruitment of staff. 
       (l)
Acquisition of drugs, equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of 
salaries and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
3.     Supporting Medical Research
       Provision of research grants to the departments of obstetrics, pediatrics and 
community medicine at the Borrower's eight medical colleges; training abroad of 
researchers; acquisition of equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
4.     Strengthening Disease Prevention and Control
       (a)   Reorganization and intensification of the tuberculosis and the leprosy 
control programs, including carrying out of baseline surveys, training of staff, 
improvement of diagnostic and management facilities, and construction of 
rehabilitation facilities, particularly for leprosy.
       (b)   Strengthening the Expanded Program of Immuniza tion, including 
recruitment and training of staff, replacement and maintenance of cold-chain 
equipment, acquisition of vaccines, and upgrading of the headquarters of the Program.
       (c)
Strengthening the program for control of diarrhoeal disease, including 
establishment of additional district diarrhoeal disease centers and oral rehydration 
treatment corners, and technical and management training of facilitators. 
Strengthening of epidemiological surveillance.
       (d)
Expansion of an anti-blindness program, including provision of vitamin A 
to children and lactating mothers.
       (e)
Strengthening of the iodine deficiency disorders control program, 
including provision of iodine injections.
       (f)
Acquisition of equipment for iodization at salt crushing units.
 
       (g)
Treatment of acute respiratory infections in children, training of health 
workers, and dissemination of information, education and motivation.
       (h) 
Strengthening of the Program for Control of Vector Borne Diseases, 
including recruitment and training of staff, fellowships, provision of a mobile 
laboratory, and carrying out of basic and applied research.
       (i)
Strengthening the program for intestinal parasite control, including 
recruitment of staff, promotion of waterseal latrines, and dissemination of health 
education.
       (j)
Strengthening of the Institute of Public Health, including upgrading of 
facilities, recruitment of staff, and acquisition of blood bags, nutritional fluid 
bags, and diagnostic reagents.
       (k)
Strengthening the Drug Testing Laboratory, including construction of 
facilities.
       (l)
Acquisition of drugs, equipment, supplies, and vehicles; financing of 
salaries and allowances; provision of technical assistance; and provision of study 
tours for program staff.
5.     Urban Primary Health Care
       Development of primary health care, including construction and renovation of 
primary health care centers, recruitment of female outreach workers, acquisition of 
essential drugs, supplies, equipment and vehicles, provision of training and 
fellowships for staff, financing of salaries and allowances, and provision of 
technical assistance.
Page  12
6.     School Health Programs
       Development and expansion of the school health programs, including construction 
and renovation of school health clinics, health education, control of communicable 
diseases, acquisition of equipment and vehicles, financing of salaries and allowances, 
and provision of technical assistance.
7.     Renovation and Functional Improvement of Health Facilities
       (a)
Upgrading of about sixteen district hospitals and about three Upazila 
health centers, including construction of facilities, acquisition of equipment, 
furniture, medical and surgical supplies, and recruitment of staff.
       (b)
Establishment of about ten Upazila health complexes including 
construction of facilities, and acquisition of equipment and furniture.
8.     Improving the Utilization of Health and Family Welfare Facilities at Upazila 
Level and Below
       Strengthening the efficiency and effectiveness of the health and family welfare 
services in about 50 selected Upazilas, including:
       (a)
Task- and service-oriented training of the staff of Upazila health 
complexes, family welfare centers and rural dispensaries;
       (b)
Repair and maintenance of buildings, furniture and equipment; operation 
and maintenance of vehicles; acquisition of required medical and laboratory equipment, 
drugs, supplies, furniture, and vehicles;
       (c)   Upgrading of laboratories, and provision of residential accommodations at 
about 50 Upazila health complexes; and
       (d)   Financing of salaries and allowances, and provision of technical 
assistance.
Part C:     Supporting Activities to the Family Planning, Mother and Child Health 
and Health Service Delivery System
1.
Strengthening Information Systems
 
       (a)
Strengthening of the family planning and mother and child health 
management information system, including carrying out of a needs assessment, system 
design, and provision of training. Improvement of the Logistics Management Information 
System.
       (b)    Strengthening of the Health Information Unit's management information 
system, including carrying out of a needs assessment, system design, and recruitment 
and training of staff.
       (c)    Carrying out of a health and demographic survey, including data 
disaggregated by gender on maternal and child health, morbidity, mortality, 
immunization coverage, health services utilization, health behavior, and 
socio-economic and demographic characteristics.
       (d)    Strengthening the capacity of the Institute of Epidemiology, Disease 
Control and Research to carry out epidemiological surveillance, including construction 
and renovation of facilities, establishment of a biostatistics unit, and recruitment 
and training of staff.
       (e)    Acquisition of equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances, and provision of technical assistance.
2.     Improving Family Planning and Health Organization, Management and Financing
       (a)    Provision of support for the Management Development Unit, with an 
extended role to include primary health care management and to assist in the 
strengthening of management at all levels.
       (b)    Carrying out of a study relating to the reorganization of the Borrower's 
health and family welfare program.
Page  13
       (c)    Carrying out of a reorganization of the Borrower's health and family 
welfare program taking into account the recommendations of the study referred to in 
paragraph (b) above.
       (d)    Carrying out of a review of the adequacy and appropriateness of human 
resources in the health and family planning sector and preparation of a human 
resources development plan.
       (e)    Improvement of the performance of the Population Development and 
Evaluation Unit.
       (f)    Establishment of a Mother and Child Health Coordination Cell in the 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
       (g)    Establishment of a Health Economics and Financing Pilot Project in the 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
      (h)    Reorganization of the Project Finance Cell to include monitoring of 
health sector projects in addition to population projects.
       (i)    Construction of a building at Mohakhali to jointly house the 
Directorates in the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
       (j)    Reorganization of the Construction Management Cell and the Building 
Planning and Design Unit into a unified Construction and Maintenance Management Unit 
within the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
       (k)    Acquisition of equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
3.     Expanding Communications Programs
       (a)    Functional integration of the Information, Education and Motivation Unit 
and the Health Education Bureau, including an integrated information, education and 
motivation strategy and a common work plan to handle audience research, message 
development, training, publication of newsletters, and production of educational 
materials and films.
       (b)    Strengthening of the Radio Bangladesh programs for family planning, 
mother and child health and primary health care, including training and upgrading of 
the production facilities. Financing of production of programs for the Bangladesh TV's 
Population and Health Cell.
       (c)    Provision of training for staff and members of community volunteer 
programs.
       (d)    Acquisition of equipment, supplies, and vehicles; financing of salaries 
and allowances; and provision of technical assistance.
4.     Supporting Non-Government Organizations
       Financing of activities of non-government organizations participating in the 
population and health sectors, including acquisition of equipment, supplies, drugs, 
and vehicles, financing of salaries and allowances, and provision of technical 
assistance.
5.     Developing Innovative Projects
       Development and testing of projects aimed at improving the effectiveness and 
efficiency of family planning and health programs, including acquisition of equipment, 
supplies, drugs, and vehicles, and provision of technical assistance.
6.     Supporting Technical Assistance Projects
       (a)    Training of health personnel in operational management and technical 
skills, preparation of training materials, and development of monitoring and 
coordination mechanisms for training activities. 
       (b)    Preparation of a human resources development plan for the health and 
family planning sector. 
       (c)    Development of a health and family planning quality assurance mechanism, 
Page  14
including health outcome measures.
       (d)    Control and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases including 
surveillance, diagnosis, training, and increasing public awareness.
       (e)    Establishment of a strategy for control and prevention of cancer, 
including surveillance systems and health prevention activities.
       (f)    Carrying out a feasibility study for the establishment of a 
pharmaceutical production unit at Khulna.
       (g)    Carrying out of a feasibility study for the establishment of a condom 
manufacturing plant.
       (h)    Acquisition of drugs, equipment, supplies, and vehicles.
Part D:      Women's and Nutrition Programs
1.     Women's Programs
       Strengthening the Mother's Centers, Women's Cooperatives, and Women's 
Vocational Training programs as to income generation impact and awareness-raising 
training, and extension of such programs to additional Upazilas; acquisition of drugs, 
equipment, supplies and vehicles; financing of salaries and allowances; and provision 
of technical assistance.
2.     Coordinated Nutrition Program of the National Nutrition Council
       Strengthening of the National Nutrition Council, including recruitment and 
training of staff, acquisition of equipment, vehicles and publications, carrying out 
of seminars and nutrition intervention programs, financing of salaries and allowances, 
and provision of technical assistance.
                               * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment, vehicles, and medical and 
biological supplies shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.     To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, vehicles, and medical and 
biological supplies shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Civil works and furniture may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
2.     Equipment, vehicles, and medical and biological supplies estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
Page  15
3.     Urgently needed items, including essential drugs and medical supplies, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
4.     Essential drugs and drug and dietary supplement kits may be procured through 
the United Nations Children's Fund, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
5.     Contraceptive supplies may be procured through the United Nations Population 
Fund, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
       (a)   With respect to the first contract for civil works, equipment, furniture, 
and medical and biological supplies to be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, and each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out 
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
       In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)    not later than September 30, 1992, establish an annual Project review 
system, including a review of annual sectoral budgets for the population and health 
subsectors, acceptable to the Association; and
       (b)    not later than October 31 in each year, commencing not later than 
October 31, 1992, carry out a review of the Project, in consultation with the 
Association, and, thereafter, take all actions required as a result of such review.
2.     In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall continue the implementation of 
the measures referred to in paragraph 12 (c) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, dated February 14, 1986, for the Third Population and Family Health Project 
(Credit Number 1649-BD), subject to periodic reviews in consultation with the 
Page  16
Association.
3.     In carrying out Part A.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than January 1, 1995, employ qualified women to fill at least 
4,500 of the 5,000 vacant health assistant positions in its outreach services; and
       (b)   not later than March 31, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Association for 
comments, a plan on the recruitment of health assistants, including an appropriate 
proportion of male and female staff, and, thereafter, carry out such plan taking into 
account the comments of the Association.
4.     In carrying out Part A.1 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1994, carry out a fertility survey in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the  Association, and, thereafter, furnish the results of the survey to 
the Association for comments.
5.     In carrying out Part A.1 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, every two 
years, commencing not later than March 31, 1993, carry out a contraceptive prevalence 
survey in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and, 
thereafter, furnish the results of the survey to the Association for comments. 
6.     In carrying out Part A.2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall establish 
transportation arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for family planning and 
health field workers attending satellite clinics.
7.     In carrying out Part A.5 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than September 30, 1992, carry out a survey of the physical 
condition of and the utilization of the existing facilities for family planning and 
mother and child health services, and, thereafter, furnish the results of the survey 
to the Association for comments;
and
       (b)   furnish to the Association the selection criteria for the sites for the 
construction of family welfare centers, satisfactory to the Association; and 
thereafter, furnish the list of sites to the Association, and construct such centers 
in accordance with the standard design agreed with the Association.  
8.     In carrying out Part A.5 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1992, carry out a feasibility study to identify the storage requirements 
for family planning and health stores, and furnish the results of the study to the 
Association for comments. 
9.     In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
March 31, 1992, initiate a comprehensive baseline survey of maternal and neonatal 
health care in such Districts, and furnish the results of the survey to the 
Association for comments.
10.    In carrying out Part B.2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
September 30, 1992, create additional nurse positions in Nursing Institutes and 
Upazila Health Complexes in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Association.
11.    In carrying out Part B.2 (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for clearance the final design of the Institute. 
12.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall require recipients 
of research grants and recipients of Project financed training to agree to remain in 
the relevant Institution or in the relevant area of expertise for at least two years 
after completion of the training or research. 
13.    In carrying out Part B.4 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
September 30, 1992, carry out baseline surveys of tuberculosis and leprosy in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish the 
results to the Association for comments.
14.    In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
July 31, 1992, assign the responsibility for urban primary health care to either the 
national or the local government and, thereafter, promptly inform the Association of 
its decision.
15.    In carrying out Part B.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
Page  17
March 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Association for comments a master plan for 
school health programs, and, thereafter, carry out such programs taking into account 
the comments of the Association.
16.    In carrying out Part B.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
April 30, 1992:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association for comments, the architectural 
plans for the new Upazila Health Complexes, such plans to include indication of the 
selected sites, allocation of at least 70% of the beds for women and children, and a 
comprehensive maintenance plan; and
       (b)   carry out a plan in the District Hospitals for the allocation of at least 
70% of the beds for women and children.
17.    In carrying out Part B.8 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
June 30, 1994, carry out an in-depth review of the outcome of the special program to 
address capacity utilization at the Upazila Health Complexes and Family Welfare 
Centers, prepare an action plan for the expansion of the program to the remaining 
Upazilas, and furnish the review and the action plan to
the Association for comments. Thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out the action plan 
taking into account the comments of the Association.
18.    In carrying out Part C.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not 
later than July 31, 1994, carry out the needs assessment and the system design, and 
furnish the results to the Association for comments. 
19.    In carrying out Part C.1 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1994, carry out a health and demographic survey in accordance with terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish the results of the survey to 
the Association for comments.
20.    In carrying out Part C.2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
August 31, 1993, carry out a study relating to the reorganization of the Borrower's 
Health and Family Welfare Program, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association; furnish the recommendations of the study to the Association for 
comments; and, thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan taking into account 
the comments of the Association on the recommendations.
21.    In carrying out Part C.2 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
March 31, 1994, prepare a human resources development plan for the strengthening of 
the capacity for human resources development planning, including provision for 
representation of women at all levels of the family planning and health system; 
furnish the plan to the Association for comments; and, thereafter, carry out the plan 
taking into account the comments of the Association.
22.    In carrying out Part C.2 (f) of the Project, the Borrower shall establish, and 
thereafter maintain, a Mother and Child Health Coordination Cell, in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
23.    In carrying out Part C.2 (g) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than August 31, 1992, establish, and thereafter maintain, a 
Health Economics and Finance Pilot Project in the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare, with competent staff in adequate numbers, and with terms of reference and a 
work plan acceptable to the Association;
       (b)   take all actions required to strengthen the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare taking into account the policy-related financial and economic analyses to be 
carried out by such a Pilot Project; and
       (c)   not later than September 30, 1993, furnish to the Association for 
comments a plan, prepared by the Health Economics and Finance Pilot Project, for 
addressing the long-term sustainability of the Borrower's health and family welfare 
program, including, among others: (i)
proposals for achieving an acceptable balance between the Ministry of Health and 
Family Welfare's revenue and development budgets; (ii) proposals for transfer of 
specific items of expenditure from the development budget to the revenue budget or the 
local governments budget; and (iii) proposals on cost-sharing mechanisms and improved 
cost-effectiveness in the health care system; and, thereafter, carry out such plan 
taking into account the comments of the Association.
Page  18
24.    The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C.2 (h) of the Project, maintain the 
Project Finance Cell with competent staff in adequate numbers until the completion of 
the Project.
25.    The Borrower shall carry out Part C.2 (j) of the Project not later than June 
30, 1992, and shall ensure that the Unit has the required administrative and financial 
authority to carry out its construction and maintenance responsibilities.
26.    In carrying out Part C.3 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than August 31, 1992, furnish to the Association a proposed 
strategy and work plan for the functional integration of the Information, Education 
and Motivation Unit and the Health Education Bureau, acceptable to the Association, 
such strategy to include indicators related to gender awareness; and
       (b)   not later than December 31, 1992, put into effect such functional 
integration.
27.    In carrying out Part C.3 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than June 30, 1993, carry out an evaluation of the community 
volunteer programs and furnish the results to the Association for comments; and 
       (b)   not later than December 31, 1992, take all actions required to ensure 
that community volunteer programs, the Mother's Centers, Women's Cooperatives and 
Women's Vocational Training programs receive contraceptives on a priority basis.
28.    In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than September 30, 1992, carry out an in-depth review of the 
three women's programs, prepare an action plan for the strengthening of such programs, 
and furnish the results of the review and the action plan to the Association for 
comments; and
       (b)   thereafter, promptly carry out such action plan taking into account the 
comments of the Association. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in convertible taka 
equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  19
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
       (b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
       (c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
       (d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  20
