                                                   Document of
                                              The World Bank


                                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                          ReportNo: 27476-DO




                                  PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                        ONA

                                              PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$12.5MILLION

                                                     TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICANREPUBLIC

                                                      FOR A

                     FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN




                                              December22,2003




Finance,PrivateSector and Infrastructure
BrazilCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 19,2003)
                            Currency Unit = Peso
                              35.00Pesos = US$]

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1      - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFPs      Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
BCRD      Banco Central de la Rep~blicaDominicana
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CP        CrCdito Publico
CPI       Consumer Price Index
DR        Dominican Republic
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
I F I S   International Financial Institutions
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LMF       Monetary and Financial Law (Ley Monetaria y Financiera)
NPLs      Non-Performing Loans
FHA       Foment0 de Hipotecas Aseguradas
FMR       Financial Management Report
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
FTAL      Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
IT        Information Technology
MDGs      MillenniumDevelopment Goals
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
RTGS      Real Time Gross Settlement System
SB        Superintendencia de Bancos
SIPEN     Superintendencia de Pensiones
ss         Superintendencia de Seguros
S I V      Superintendencia de Valores
SWIFT      Society for Worldwide Interbank FundsTransfers
TA         Technical Assistance
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
VAT       Value Added Tax
WHI        Western Hemisphere Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Initiative

                           Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                         Country Director:      Caroline D.Anstey
                           Sector Director:     Danny M.Leipziger
                          Sector Manager:       Fernando Montes-Negret
                        Task Team Leader:       Mario Guadamillas

                                                                                         FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY
                                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                  FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan

                                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                      Page

    A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................. 1
      1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                   1
      2. Rationale for Bank involvement.......................................................................................... 3
      3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes .....................................................                                 4

    B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       ..................................................................................................    5
      1.  Lending instrument ..............................................................................................................             5
      2.  Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                               5
      3.  Project components..............................................................................................................              5
      4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ............................................................ 7
      5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...............................................................                              8

    C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ...........................................................................................................    9
      1. Partnershiparrangements..................................................................................................... 9
      2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements...................................................................                              9
      3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results ................................................................                                10
      4.  Sustainability .....................................................................................................................          12
      5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                              13
      6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants ...............................................................................                           14

    D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
     .                                          ..................................................................................................      14
      1.  Economic and financial analyses....................................................................................... 14
      2.  Technical............................................................................................................................         14
      3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................         14
      4.  Social .................................................................................................................................      15
      5.  Environment ......................................................................................................................            16
      6. Safeguard policies..............................................................................................................               16
      7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                         17

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                         .      .

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                 ..........................................................      18

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                       ..................23
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       .........................................................................       24

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description             ......................................................................................         31

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................          43

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                   ..................................................................................        44

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                             ......................................   45

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................          48

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                   ..............................................................................        54

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues          .............................................................................................         55

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                       ......................................................................        56

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                ..................................................................................         57

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ...............................................................................         58

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ...................................................................................................          59

                                DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                     FINANCIAL SECTORTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                           LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSFF

Date: December22,2003                       Team Leader: Guadamillas, Mario
CountryDirector: CarolineD.Anstey           Sectors: Banking(60%); Non-compulsory
Sector Manger/Director: FernandoMontes-     pensions,insurance andcontractualsavings
Negret/DannyM.Leipziger                     (40%)
                                            Themes: Standards andfinancial reporting(P)
ProjectID: PO78838                          Environmentalscreeningcategory: Not
                                            required
LendingInstrument: TechnicalAssistance      Safeguardscreeningcategory: Noimpact
l-a-a__._
     n
                                Project Financing Data
[XI Loan    [ ] Credit [ ] Grant [ 3 Guarantee  [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing(US$m.): 12.50
ProDosedterms: FSL




RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                        14.54             0.0            14.54

Borrower:
Government
DominicanRepublic

ResponsibleAgency:
BancoCentralde la RepublicaDominicana
Apartado PostalNo. 1347
Santo Doming0
DominicanRepublic
Tel: 809-221-9111Ext. 3135/3136 Fax: 809-686-0989
r.rosario@bancentral.gov.do
httD://www.bancentral.nov.do

innual           0.50      2.50      4.00  I
                                           1    3.50      2.00
hmulative]       0.50  II  3.00 II   7.00      10.50 II  12.50 1I
Project implementation period: Start March 1,2004 End: June 30, 2008
Expected effectiveness date: April 1, 2004
Expected closing date: December 31,2008
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
Ref. PADA.3                                                                           []Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7
Have these been approved by Bank management?
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The first project development objective (PDO) will consist of strengthening the institutional
capacity of the monetary authorities to improve the design and implementation of monetary and
fiscal policies. The FTAL will achieve this objective by helping the Central Bank to define a
strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank in view of the large quasi-fiscal deficit it i s incurring as
a result of the banking crisis management; by developing the monetary and financial regulations
to be issued by the Monetary Board required by the recently approved LMF and; by helping the
Ministry of Finance to implement an efficient debt management strategy.
The second PDO will consist of strengthening the institutional capacity of the financial
regulatory agencies to reduce risks and increase efficiency, transparency and accountability of
financial activities. The FTAL will achieve this objective by strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Banking, Securities, Insurance and Pension Superintendencies, with particular
emphasis in the institutional development of the Superintendency of Banks and; by modernizing
the financial infrastructure, particularly the country's payments and securities settlement systems.

Project description Ref. PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
1.Strategy to re-capitalize the central bankand statistics improvement.
2. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Banking Superintendency (SB).
3. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Securities Superintendency (SIV).
4. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Insurance Superintendency (SS).
5. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Pensions Superintendency (SIPEN).
6. Payments and securities settlement systems reform.
7. Regulatory development of the LMF.
8. Debt management anddevelopment of fixed income markets.
9. Contingencies to deal with potential intensification of the banking crisis.
10. Audit of Financial Statements.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
None
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation:
3-February-2004
Loadcredit effectiveness:
1.Confirm the establishment of the permanent PCU and its staff.
2. Submit to the bank a copy of the signed agreement between the UNDPand the Government.
3. Operational manual approved by the Bank.
4. Deposit of counterpart funds for the first three months of implementation inthe project
account.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
None


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

 1. Countryandsector issues

Past performance. Throughout the 1990s the Dominican Republic ranked among the fastest
growing economies in the Latin American and Caribbean region. During 1991-2000, the
economy grew by 5.9 percent on average and per capita income increased by 4.1 percent in real
terms. The country achieved fast economic growth within an increasingly stable macroeconomic
environment, characterized by low inflation, manageable fiscal deficits and declining public
sector debt.
During 2001-2002 a combination of external factors (the global economic slowdown and the
events of September 11, 2001) and domestic policy weaknesses contributed to a slower
economic growth rate (3.5 percent p.a. during 2001-02).       The Government responded to the
growth slowdown with increased public spending, which led to worrying but still manageable
deficits, largely financed by foreign borrowing. Waning confidence in the adequacy of
macroeconomic policies in the face of external pressures, coupled with a large current account
deficit (averaging 3.6 percent of GDP during 2001-2002), led to a weakening of the peso which
depreciated by 27 percent against the dollar between December 2001 and December 2002,
compared to a 2.7 percent depreciation the year before. This happened despite heavy intervention
of the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market which contributed to a sharp decline of net
international reserves from US$962 million in December 2001 to US$376 million in December
2002.
The crisis of 2003. In 2003, the economic difficulties were compounded by a massive banking
crisis that shattered the country's already weakened macroeconomic framework and jeopardized
its growth prospects. In April 2003, the third largest commercial bank, Baninter, collapsed due
to its inability to face intensified liquidity withdrawals. To avoid the spread of a crisis of
confidence to the rest of the financial sector, the Central Bank stepped in by guaranteeing all of
Baninter's deposits. In the months following this intervention, two medium-sized banks,
Bancre'dito and Banco Mercantil, experienced large deposit withdrawals and also received
liquidity support from the Central Bank. Nova Scotia Bank acquired part of the Baninter
portfolio and also agreed with the BCRD to administer part of the portfolio not acquired. BCRD
overtook part of the related party portfolio of Bancre'dito and sold the rest to Grupo Le6n (the
owner of Banco Profesional). Finally, BCRD also overtook part o f related party portfolio of
Banco Mercantil and the Republic Bank of Trinidad and Tobago acquired the rest.
Internationally-assisted inspections of the remaining banks will determine if there are additional
vulnerabilities inthe system.
The Baninter collapse reflects mismanagement and fraudulent banking practices as well as a
weak banking supervision framework. Since 1989 Baninter hadbeen operating a parallelbank by
regularly issuingpromissory notes (compromisos de pago) to depositors that were not registered
in the final accounts of the bank. The circumstances that made possible the perpetration of this
massive fraud in the banking system over an extended period confirm the existence of serious
supervisory and regulatory weaknesses inthe financial system (which were identified inthe 2001
FSAP). More broadly, they reveal institutional failures in key government institutions. The 2001
FSAP concluded that the DR's banking system suffers from systemic vulnerabilities resulting
from major weaknesses in all supervisory agencies (banking, insurance, securities andpensions),


                                                  1

insufficient levels of capitalization and provisioning, significant exposure to credit risksresulting
from a large concentration of loans to a small group of borrowers and insufficient safeguards
against connected lending and from a substantial proportion of loans to un-hedged foreign
currency borrowers. The FSAP diagnostic called for prompt and decisive corrective measures in
early 2001. However, the measures adopted by the authorities were not commensurate with the
extent o f the problems diagnosed.
The macroeconomic implications of the 2003 banking crisis have been dramatic. The approach
pursued by the Government may have helped limit contagion in the banking system (Le.,
committing to honor all deposits including off-shore and off-balance sheet) but it also increased
resolution costs and, due to its size compared to the fiscal capacity of the country, put
macroeconomic stability at risk. Central Bank assistance to the troubled banks is estimated to
amount so far to 21 percent of GDP. Since part of the liquidity support was not sterilized, the
higher monetary expansion fueled currency depreciation and inflation (the peso has depreciated
by 90 percent against the dollar inthe first eleven months of 2003).
In August 2003 the authorities started implementing an economic stabilization program in the
context of an IMF-supported 24-month Stand-by Arrangement (SBA). The SBA gives access to
a total o f US$620 million from the IMF and its first tranche, for an amount of US$120 million,
was disbursed in September 2003 upon approval o f the program by the IMF Board. The
economic stabilization program includes measures aimed at ensuring banking sector reform,
sound fiscal policy, sound monetary policy, and a flexible management of the currency.
Structural measures pursued in the stabilization program include the implementation of a new
budget organic law and a new integrated financial management system law. On the monetary
sector, competitive auction for the placement o f Central Bank paper will be implemented, a
rediscount window to provide liquidity to Central Bank papers will be activated, a plan for the
re-capitalization of the Central Bank i s to be prepared and the unification of the foreign exchange
market will be completed. On the financial sector the program covers five pillars: (i)       resolve
Baninter; (ii) preliminary reviews to check that there is no fraud in other banks; (iii)
                adopt
reinforce the transparency of financial institutions; (iv) implement a bank resolution framework;
and (v) strengthen prudential regulations foreseen in the LMF (Ley Monetaria y Financiera),
supervision and enforcement.
An improvement in market sentiment that followed the approval of the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement in support of the Government economic stabilization program came soon undone
following the Government's buy-out in mid-September of a private investor's share in two
electricity distribution companies (Edenorte and Edesur). It i s estimated that the new public
sector debt generated by the re-purchase of the two electricity distributors will amount to
US$488 million (significantly contributing to the total electricity public debt of 4.9 percent of
GDP). The impact of this re-purchase for the Government's cash-flow and debt position, its
possibly adverse impact on the sustainability of the electricity sector, and the lack of information
on the manner in which the deal was negotiated led to the delay of the first review of the IMF-
supported SBA and the disbursement of the second tranche of an IDB social sector adjustment
loan.
The combined economic impact of the banking crisis, the re-purchase of two electricity
distributors and resultingdelay in external financing flows have been very significant. GDP has
declined by an estimated 1.3 percent in 2003, as export growth has not offset a steep decline in
domestic demand. Inflation i s projected to exceed 40 percent by end-December 2003 compared


                                                   2

to 10.5 in December 2002. A stronger than expected surplus of the external current account of
 5.6 percent of GDP has been offset by significant capital outflows, especially in the third quarter
 of the year. Central government revenue fell short of the level projected in the IMF-supported
program by 1 percent of GDP and fiscal pressures have emerged on several fronts leading to a
projected deficit of 5.2 percent of GDP for the combined public sector-Central Bank quasi-fiscal
deficit amounted to 2.5 percent of GDP as a consequence of the banking crisis (as discussed
above), and the deficit of the non-financial public sector amounted to 2.7 percent of GDP,
exceeding program projections by about 2 percent o f GDP. Public debt more than doubled from
27.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 58.4 percent in 2003. International rating agencies
have downgraded the country in several instances in 2003, and the exchange rate and risk
spreads experienced a sharp deterioration especially in the last quarter of the year. Net
international reserves fell to about US$128 million at end-November, and the authorities are
facing difficulty servicing DR external debt (by mid-October the country had accumulated
US$SO million in external arrears, of which US$28 million was beyond the grace period). The
impact of the crisis will go well beyond 2003. The economy i s expected to experience negative
growth in 2004 before recovering in 2005. Public debt i s not expected to decline to pre-crisis
levels for a decade or more.
After an independent commission of international experts set up to evaluate the purchase of
Edenorte and Edesur submitted its draft report on November 10, 2003, the IMFresumed the first
review of the SBA for which technical-level discussions were concluded on December 17, 2003,
with agreement on policies for 2004, including a set of upfront actions to be implementedbefore
the authorities' revised program and Letter of Intent would be circulated to the IMF's Executive
Board. These discussions had to take into account slippages that had emerged with respect to
several program targets, including those related to fiscal and monetary policies, and delays in
completion of some of the program's structural measures. The discussions for the first review of
the program centered on plans to address these slippages with a revised program for 2004. A
number of commitments are to be fulfilled before completion of the review (for details see
Annex F of CAS Progress Report). At the time of circulating to the Board this document, the
authorities were in the process of implementing these commitments and the IMFBoard meeting
was expected to take place inthe second half of January 2004.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Assistance from the international financial community i s needed in helping the DR authorities'
efforts to restore macroeconomic stability. The international financial institutions' (IFIs) have
followed a coordinated approach to engage the authorities in the crisis management. Besides the
IMFStand-by Arrangement, the IADB will support the DR authorities through a Social Loan, an
Emergency Loan and a Financial Sector Based Policy Loan.2 The World Bank Group strategy
during the next twelve months, as stated in the 2004 CAS progress report, will focus on: (i)
protecting social programs and human capital during the economic crisis while providing
impetus to important social sector reforms; (ii) supporting Government efforts to minimize the
immediate effect of the power sector crisis of 2003; (iii)promoting the strengthening of
regulatory framework and institutional capacity in the financial sector; (iv) foster sustainable
private sector development by supporting viable projects through F C support with key

 The IMF,the IADB andthe World Bank.
 FinancialSector Adjustment Loan.


                                                3

interventions in the financial sector, tourism, construction, free trade zone enterprises, and
mining; and (v) deepening the Bank Group's analytical knowledge on issues related to new and
emerging challenges to support the preparation of a full CAS inFY05.
In relation to the financial sector, all IFIs agreed on the need to provide significant technical
assistance to the DR to enable it to efficiently absorb and use the resources devoted to deal with
the underlying causes o f the crisis. There i s also a need for sequencing the technical assistance in
order to avoid overwhelming the limited capacity of the DR's financial sector supervisory
agencies and, at the same time, strengthen their institutional capacity for the medium-term.
The technical assistance program was discussed among the IFIs and two phases were identified.
The first phase will deal with the most urgent needs to enable the implementation of the
agreements reached with the IMF. Particularly, it will include (i)a plan of internationally
assisted on-site inspections for the entire banking system3 to identify any existing inappropriate
practices and to restore confidence in the system and; (ii)
regulations (identified in an IMF-WB technical assistance mission, that took place from June loth
                                                                             the drafting o f the most urgent

to 20th, 2003) of the LMF, that was approved in 2003. The IMF and IADB will provide the
financial resources to undertake this first phase, approximately US$6 million. The second phase
will support the strengthening of the institutional and financial infrastructure in the medium term
through the proposed FTAL. It was agreed that the three institutions would continue to
coordinate closely their TA programs.
The current FTAL will constitute a continuation of the TA that the Bank has undertaken to assist
DR authorities in the implementation of the FSAP recommendations. The Bank will provide its
expertise in institutional strengthening of financial sector agencies and systems' infrastructure.
The Bank has already been involved in the identification and strengthening of some areas of the
financial sector. Advisory Services were provided for the drafting of the new legal framework
for the financial system (Ley Moneturia y Financieru, LMF) and a comprehensive diagnosis o f
payments and securities settlement systems was undertaken under the Western Hemisphere
Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Initiative (WHI).
3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes
Higher poverty levels are very likely to be the outcome o f the current banking crisis. The
strategy followed by the authorities of trying to isolate the first case (Baninter) was, in part,
successful in avoiding a systemic run. However, the immediate monetization of most of
Baninter's deposits introduces a serious risk of macroeconomic instability. In addition, poor
management, fraud and supervisory weakness have led other banks to experience serious
financial losses. Nonetheless, a systemic risk was avoidedby the bail-out from the Central Bank.
The higher level objective of the proposed FTAL i s to reduce the probability of future financial
sector crises and to mitigate the negative impact of the current crisis on poverty levels and
income distribution. The FTAL will accomplish this goal through technical assistance to develop
institutional capacity and improve the financial infrastructure and legal framework. The FTAL i s
consistent with the objectives of the proposed Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report 2004



  The specific actions considered were: (i) of an international firm to coordinate operational aspectsof the
                                           hiring
assisted inspections; and (ii)
                             the hiring of auditors and experts to perform the inspections in collaboration with staff
from the Superintendency of Banks (SB).


                                                          4

of modernizing the State and improving governance, restore confidence and facilitate the
resumption of economic growth and poverty reduction.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument
The selected lending instrument i s an investment loan with a medium-term focus (4 years) to
finance goods, services and training in support of financial sector development that will
contribute to poverty reduction and sustainable development. The type of investment loan
selected i s a Technical Assistance Loan as it focus on institutional capacity building in key
agencies of the financial sector. This FTAL i s part of the comprehensive lending program set out
inthe CAS Progress Report 2004for DominicanRepublic.
2. Project development objective and key indicators
The first project development objective (PDO) will consist of strengthening the institutional
capacity of the monetary authorities to improve the design and implementation of monetary and
fiscal policies. The FTAL will achieve this objective by helping the Central Bank to define a
strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank in view of the large quasi-fiscal deficit it i s incurring as
a result of the banking crisis management; by developing the monetary and financial regulations
to be issued by the Monetary Board requiredby the recently approved LMF and; by helping the
Ministry of Finance to implementan efficient debt management strategy.
The second PDO will consist of strengthening the institutional capacity of the financial
regulatory agencies to reduce risks and increase efficiency, transparency and accountability o f
financial activities. The FTAL will achieve this objective b y strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Banking, Securities, Insurance and Pension Superintendencies, with particular
emphasis in the institutional development of the Superintendency of Banks and; by modernizing
the financial infrastructure, particularly the country's payments and securities settlement
systems.
3. Project components
The proposed project will consist of technical assistance to finance consultant services, IT based
system development and equipment, and training to achieve the PDOs described in the previous
section. The components, with estimated amounts, are as follows:

    1. Strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank and statistics improvement. The Central Bank
       has generated an important quasi-fiscal deficit as a result o f the banking crisis
       management. An analysis of the Central Bank's balance sheet dynamics will be produced
       as the basis for the re-capitalization strategy, the main output of this component. It will
       also include an improvement of the Central Bank statistics to bring them closer to
       international standards regarding the classification o f financial instruments, sectorization
       o f the economy, monetary aggregates compilation and statistical treatment of banks in
       liquidation (US$0.35 million).
    2. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Banking Superintendency (SB). The
       banking crisis has unveiled major banking supervision deficiencies such as an undue
       reliance on external audit reports that have proven to be inaccurate; lack of IT
       supervision, including the configuration o f the balance sheets and other supervisory
       returns of banks; weak supervision of the bank's internal control; weak bank governance;



                                                 5

   lax lending to related parties practices; weak provisioning rules; disregard of other risks
   different from credit risk and; the ineffectiveness of on-site and off-site analysis to early
   detect problem banks. Thus, this component focus on the areas o f IT auditing function,
   external audits accountability, institutional strengthening, implementation of risk-focused
   supervisionand full implementation of the off-site manual (US$2.49 million).
3. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Securities Superintendency (SIV). This
   component seeks to support a gradual development of the market through two major
   elements focusing on securities markets and, government debt management and fixed
   income markets. The main focus of the securities markets component i s capacity building
   at the level of the newly established SIV. However, to allow for efficient allocation and
   prioritization of resources, given the current and realistically expected future level of
   market development, the securities market component also envisions support for the
   creation o f a national strategy for securities market development and promotion. Thus,
   the sub-components of the strengthening of the S I V include a national strategy for
   securities market development and promotion; establishment of a central registry of
   market instruments and participants; issuance of secondary regulation and accompanying
   manuals; development of on- and off-site surveillance functions at S I V and; procurement
   of IT systems (hardware and software) to support S I V activities (US$0.99 million).
4. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Insurance Superintendency (SS). The
   insurance market in the DR i s not well developed. A new law has been promulgated in
   2002 (Ley de Seguros Privados No. 146-02) but the existing regulatory system i s still
   deficient in some important aspects such as the corporate governance and the prudential
   investment limits with a single issuer. The SS should review its mandate and the
   efficiency of its activities. The insurance sector has also been largely affected by the
   recent banking crisis as many companies were linked to banking groups. This component
   will include review and update of the legislation; implementation of risk-based
   supervision; procurement o f IT systems (hardware and software) to modernize the system
   of supervision; development of actuarial capacity as part of supervision and; human
   resource management and training (US$1.64 million).
5. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Pensions Superintendency (SIPEN).
   This component focuses on five areas where institutional capacity would be needed inthe
   medium term. The SIPEN must consolidate itself as an institution while simultaneously
   managing the start-up phase of the new system under extremely difficult external
   conditions. The proposed areas are strategic planning, institutional development, human
   resource and IT and implementation; establishment of appropriate technical and
   regulatory framework for survivor and disability benefits; investment policy advice on
   appropriate regulations and linkages to other capital market reforms; training of
   supervisory staff including exchange with other supervisors in the region and; creation of
   database and production of periodic reports in coordination with other agencies (US$1.49
   million).
6. Design of a comprehensive payments and securities clearance and settlement system
   reform strategy. This component will support a comprehensive reform of the payments
   system, including the launch of safer and more efficient systems and an improved legal
   and oversight framework. Large value and time critical payment transactions are
   envisaged to be processed electronically in a Real Time Gross Settlement System
   (RTGS) environment. A full standardization of cheques and clearing procedures as well



                                             6

       as an increased automation (Le. through truncation and/or cheque imaging) i s also
       included aiming at reducing the costs associated with cheque processing (US$3.5
       million).
   7. Regulatory development of the LMF (coordinated with the IADB Technical Assistance
       Program). Critical aspects of the LMF need to be developed by regulations. These
       regulatory developments include bank resolution and deposit insurance, penalties,
       consolidated supervision, capital adequacy, fit-and-proper criteria for bank managers and
       directors, loan classification and provisioning rules, adoption of market risk criteria,
       limits and enforcement of credit to related parties, adoption of best practices for corporate
       governance and strengthening of the bank's internal controls, and the like. The Bank will
       focus on implementation of the rules for market and operational risk; implementation of
       the rules for prudential norms; review and upgrade of the external audit norms for
       financial institutions including disclosure of financial statements; consolidated
       supervision training; implementation of the foreign exchange rules; implementation of
       the contingency fund rules; implementation of the net international reserves management
       rules; implementation of new norms for Savings and Loans institutions and;
       implementation of the rules of FHA (Foment0 de Hipotecas Aseguradas) insurance
       (US$0.5 million).
   8. Design and implementation of an eficient framework for debt management and related
      fixed income market developmentplan. A draft law intended to change the functioning of
       the Ministry of Finance i s currently being discussed in Congress. The current domestic
       debt management functions inthe DR are mainly concentrated on issues related to budget
       execution (specifically the printing of cheques), registration of supplier arrears, recent re-
       negotiations of loan terms with the Banco de Resewas, and the discussion on the design
       of a new bond, similar to the "Bonos de Ley 104" (see annex 4) which mainly has taken
       place in Congress. A debt management framework i s currently not in place, and if the
       proposed law discussed in Congress i s passed, major changes will be needed and it will
       require additional assistance in the development o f the fixed income securities markets
       beyond what i s available through the securities markets component. It includes support
       for the re-organizationof the Ministry o f Finance; capacity buildinginthe front, back and
       middle office areas of the Crkdito Pziblico (CP); registration of all types of government
       debt including suppliers credits inarrears; strengthened risk management capabilities and
       support for the definition of a corresponding debt issuance strategy in CP as well as
       BCRD and; support for money market development (US$0.99 million).
   9. Contingencies that could occurfrom an intensification of the banking crisis. In the event
       of a deepening of the crisis these funds would be available to help deal with critical new
       events, basically the need to hire experts to manage intervened banks in a professional
       manner to ensure cost minimization (US$2 million).
    10.Financia2 Statements Audit. Hiring of a firm to audit the financial statements of the
       project (US$O. 1million).
4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design
The lessons included below come from similar financial sector operations in other countries in
Latin American as well as from the operational experience o f the Bank with DR. Those lessons
have been taken into account for the design of this FTAL as well as implementation
arrangements.




                                                7

A first lesson is the importance of a flexible design able to respond to the borrower's needs and
priorities that can emerge in the implementation process, especially in the case of DR that i s
going through a major banking crisis. Recent banking crisis in other Latin American countries
have been extremely costly, about 20 to 30 percent of GDP. This seems to be also the case in
DR. The banking crisis have caused major social setbacks, because the real value of savings and
investments declines rapidly during a crisis. Experience shows that financial authorities have
frequently failed to prevent a crisis because of poor diagnosis of banking problems and lack of a
comprehensive strategy to deal with a crisis, as it has also happened in DR. Availability of funds
to be disbursed in a very short period of time is key for the I F I s to be able to help in diagnosis
and strategic solutions for a banking crisis or its intensification. Thus, given the highuncertainty
as to how the crisis will unfold, the FTAL includes a contingent component to cope with
emerging priorities should the banking crisis intensify.
A second lesson indicates that the approval of new financial sector laws (LMFin DR) must be
accompanied by the enactment of specific regulation and strengthening of the government
agencies in charge of their implementation in order to be effective. To this end, the FTAL will
support the issuing of regulation to implement the LMF and the strengthening of the agencies in
charge of its implementation. These improvements will bring financial sector regulation and
supervision in DR closer to international standards.
A third lesson is the needto integrate the efforts to strengthen the different technical areas in the
Government dealing with the financial sector. Isolated efforts in the past have had a minor
impact on financial sector improvement (e.g.,              strengthening plan for the Banking
Superintendency). The experience shows that loans involving more than one beneficiary agency
increase the need for implementation arrangements that ensure effective coordination of these
agencies. Thus, a major challenge for the FTAL will be to integrate the efforts of the different
technical areas but it will constitute at the same time one of the most important outcomes of the
operation. Project implementation arrangements take this issue into account (see section C.2).
A fourth lesson is that any effort of capacity buildingmust be permanent. The high level of staff
rotation made previous efforts unsuccessful. To deal with this issue human resources
management sub-components are considered for some of the local agencies involved in this
operation, especially the Banking and Insurance Superintendencies.
5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
Several alternatives were considered jointly among the IFIs in a highly coordinated approach to
assist the DR authorities in dealing with the banking crisis. Due to the fast and deep
macroeconomic implications of the crisis, timing has been the main factor in the agreed
assistance strategy. The IFIs decided that the most efficient approach regarding adjustment
operations was that each IF1should focus on the sectors in which each of them had a stronger
previous involvement (see Technical Annex 2). This would allow to disburse the funds in a
reasonable period of time once the DR authorities comply with the conditionality included in
each operation. Otherwise, going through the phases of design, negotiations and implementation
of new operations could take a precious time, key for a successful resolution of the banking crisis
and its aftermath.
The IFIs agreed to provide coordinated technical assistance to the DR to back the IMF strategy
for the reform of the financial sector and IADB and World Bank adjustment operations. A first
phase will deal with the most urgent needs, particularly the on-site inspections and audits for the


                                                  8

entire banking system and the preparation of the most urgent regulations for the implementation
of the LMF.After considering all the alternatives, because of the expertise of each institution and
some timing considerations it was decided that the IMF and IADB would provide the financial
resources to undertake the first phase. The Bank will contribute to the technical debate during
this first phase and will finance the second phase with this FTAL focused on an integrated
reform of the financial sector including the strengthening of the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework, a sound implementation of the new pension system, a modernization of the public
debt management function, a modernization of the payments and securities settlement system
and a strategy for the re-capitalizationof the Central Bank.
Due to the magnitude of the financial sector reform program and the urgent need to implement
some of the changes, a technical assistance loan constituted the best instrument to ensure the
rapid implementation of the reform program. It will also help to ensure transparency, fairness,
and competitiveness in the selection and hiring of consultants, given the bank's strict
procurement procedures and financial management practices.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements
No partnership arrangements are included in this operation although, as mentioned in previous
sections, the assistance program for the DR has been highly coordinated among the I F I s (see
Annex 2).
2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements
The government agencies beneficiaries of this loan will be the Central Bank (Banco Central de
la Repu'blica Dominicana, BCRD), the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Estudo de Finanzas),
the Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia de Buncos, SB), the Superintendency of
Insurance     (Superintendencia de      Seguros,    SS),   the   Superintendency     of   Pensions
(Superintendencia de       Pensiones,    SIPEN) and       the   Superintendency      of  Securities
(Superintendenciade Valores, SIV). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU, Unidad Ejecutora) has
been established in the BCRD including one representative from each technical unit. The PCU
would work in close coordination with each of the beneficiary agencies, which would be
responsible for the technical work of their respective components. Procurement and Financial
Management will be within the BCRD's PCU. However, the DR authorities will hire the services
of the UNDP as procurement agent (due to lack of expertise on WB procurement methods) and
also as loan administrator. Implementation arrangements are summarized in the figure below and
details are presented inAnnex 6.
The procurement assessment from the Bank specialists confirm that the BCRD has a good
organization and capable staff, also the other members of the PCU are well qualified and have
good experience in their field of expertise. However it will be necessary to organize seminars
and training for the PCU members on Bank requirements and procedures. In sum the risk of
implementation of this project is considered average. In any case, some measures to mitigate this
risk are discussedinsection C.5.
The financial management assessment from Bank specialists concludes that, assuming that the
PCU implements the actions recommended in this assessment, it should have in place an
adequate budgetary and financial management system, which meets the minimum Bank
requirements for financial management of the proposedloan.




                                                 9

                                 ImplementationArrangements

                                          Project CoordinationUnit

                  1                                                       SupportUnit

                    SupportUnit            BCRD
                                        Coordinator     Procurement
                                                            Officer
                     LegalUnit            plus one
                       BCRD            representative
                                      of each technical
                                            unit          Financial
                                                        Management
                                                            Officer




                                                                               Secr. Estado
      BCRD             SB              SIV              ss           SIPEN       Finanzas

  I                                     TechnicalUnits

3. Monitoring and evaluationof outcomeshesults
The project design has been guided by a results framework (see Annex 3) intended to be useful
for both project management and Bank supervision.
The outcome indicators have been identifiedfor each of the project development objectives:
       0   Central Bank re-capitalization strategy allows for more efficient implementation
           o f monetary and fiscal policies.
           Efficient supervisory function and enforcement of the LMF through issuance of
           its regulatory development.
       0   Reduction and better control of government debt exposure through the
           implementation of the debt management function that allows for a) competitive
           mechanisms such as auctions (front office); b) design of risk management
           strategies (middle office): and c) efficiently and securely register government
           debt.
       0   Reduction of crisis probability and increase o f efficiency levels in the financial
           sector, measuredb y increase in M2/GDPratio.

The results indicators for each component are:

    1. Strategy to re-capitalizethe Central Bank and statistics improvement:
       0   Strategy for the re-capitalization of the Central Bank compatible with the IMF Stand-
           by Arrangement.
       0   Monetary and financial statistics of the Central Bank in line with international
           standards.
    2. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the SB:
       0   Assessments of banks' technological risk inplace.



                                                  10

       Regulation for banks' external auditors in place establishing the minimumcontent of
       banks' audits reports, the suitability of banks' external auditors, anddisciplinary rules
       for those auditors that fail to perform their responsibility in accordance with this
       regulation.
    0  Banks' auditors register inplace.
    0  Banks subject to on and off-site risk focused supervision.
3. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the S N :
    0  Supervised institutions subject to on- and off-site surveillance.
   0   Regulatory framework supportive of the level of market development issued.
   0   Knowledge about the functioning and benefits of capital markets expanded through
       development of outreach programs.
4. Strengthening of the institutionalcapacity of the SS:
       Supervised institutions subject to risk-based supervision.
   0   Financial returns filed by companies in electronic form and subject to immediate
       computer analysis.
   0   Development of a cadre o f actuarial experts in SS.
5. Strengthening of the institutional capacity o f the SIPEN:
   0   Supervised institutions subject to on and off-site surveillance.
   0   Regulatory framework for investments issued, that i s appropriate given existing and
       projectedstate of capital markets.
   0   Regulations and institutional framework for determination o f eligibility for disability
       benefits inplace.
   0   Coordination with other agencies in place measured by the existence of formal
       coordination mechanisms (MOUs, Committees, etc.)
6. Design of a comprehensive payments and securities clearance and settlement system
reform:
   0   Substantial reduction in the use of paper based payment instruments. (Currently,
       some 26 million cheques are processed annually).
   0   Expedited availability of final funds to beneficiaries from an average of four days to
       no more than two days with same day availability of all large value transfers.
   0   Elimination of settlement risk (payments and primaryhecondary market securities
       transfers).
   0   Opportunities for commercial banks to provide new fee based services; e.g. expedited
       funds transfer and corporate cash management services.
7. Regulatory development of the LMF:
   0   Regulations issued and enforced.
8. Debt management and development of fixed income markets:
   0   Organizational changes in the Ministry o f Finance with creation of a new
       department (CrkditoPu'blico).
   0   Establishment of modern debt management function in accordance with IMF/WB
       guidelines.
   0   Registration of all payment obligations o f the central government including
       suppliers' credits inarrears.




                                             11

        0  Strengthening and further development of the money market including the
           development of a repo-market measured by an increase in the value of
           transactions undertaken in this market.
    9. Contingencies to deal with potential intensification of the banking crisis:
        0  Iftriggered, quick resolutionof new potential casesof crisis banks.
The PCU in the BCRD will coordinate the informatioddata collection from the corresponding
technical units to monitor the evolution of the outcomes/results identified. Technical Annex 3
(Results Framework and Monitoring) sets up an schedule of the advances expected for each PDO
and component. This schedule will serve as a guide for the supervision of the FTAL and as a
mechanism that can be used by managers and policy makers to assess the project's effectiveness
duringimplementation and after the project is completed.
4. Sustainability
The management o f the banking crisis and reforms in the financial sector are being supported by
the IFIs. The FTAL has been designed to support the implementation of the IFIs' assistance
program. Past efforts by the DR authorities to improve the regulatory and supervisory framework
in the financial sector have clearly not yielded the expected results. Lack of integration of the
different projects and lack of continuity of the human resources involved in previous capacity
building efforts are the main reasons for these negative results. Inaddition, the FTAL faces the
important risk o f the banking crisis intensification. Should this happen the DR authorities
attention will deviate to the short term urgencies.
The assistance program designed and coordinated by the IFIs already took this risk into account,
dividing the responsibilities. Thus, short-term technical assistance i s being provided by the IMF
and IADB, with the World Bank participating in the dialogue, and focusing on medium-term
reforms for the financial sector through this FTAL. Inaddition, the design of this FTAL i s taking
into account a potential banking crisis intensification with a contingency component of US$2
million should this happen. This would facilitate any additional efforts by the IFIs to help DR
authorities to manage the crisis, diminishing the deviation o f current resources to the crisis
management, an thus, reducing the impact on medium-term financial sector reforms.
The integration issue is being dealt through the proposedimplementation arrangements. A major
challenge for the FTAL will be to integrate the efforts of the different technical areas but it will
constitute at the same time one of the most important outcomes of the operation.
The evidence of the borrower's commitment and ownership of the financial sector reform
program has been stated in the IMF's Stand-by Arrangement o f August 2003 and the recognition
by the authorities of the need for technical assistance to implement a coherent medium-term
action plan.
Possible risks that might affect the implementation of the project and their mitigation measures
are includedinthe following section.




                                                 12

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                  Risks                        Risk Mitigation Measures           Risks
                                                                                 Rating
                                                                                  with
                                                                                Mitigation

 To project developmentobjectives
 The banking crisis, if not properly      DR authorities have signeda               S
 managed, could intensify and             Stand-by Arrangement with IMF.
 deepen. This coulddivert the             The FTAL includes a contingency
 attention of the DR authorities to the   component to be usedshould the
 crisis management with less active       banking crisis intensify
 attention beingpaid to the medium-
 term agenda, the core of this FTAL
 Lack of political commitment to          Coordination among I F I s to ensure      s
 strengthen supervisory agencies          higher levels of transparency and
 improving transparency and               governance
 governance arrangements
IIdentification of the provision of       Legal agreement to include a              S
                                          provision (financial covenant) of
                                          an estimated three months of
                                          counterpart funds being deposited
                                          inthe project account with
                                          subsequent quarterly deposits

 Limited implementation capacity.         DR authorities have approached            M
 The BCRD and the other agencies          UNDPto act as procurement agent
 are not familiar with the Bank's rules   andhelp with the project
 and procedures                           preparation and implementation.
                                          Procurement training will be
                                          provided to the PCUby
                                          effectiveness
 Lack of coordination among               Proper implementation                     M
 financial agencies responsible of        arrangements will be made inthe
 project implementation                   TA loan
 To component results
 Diminished efficiency inthe              IMFStand-by Arrangement                   S
 strengthening of the                     indicates a higher level of
 Superintendencies due to poor            commitment and enforcement by
 enforcement                              DRauthorities




                                              13

  Lack of continuity of key technical        Commitment from the government             S
  staff                                      to assure continuity of key
                                             technical staff and components in
                                             each supervisory agency related to
                                             humanresources management
  Delays in the regulatory development       Calendar established inthe Law
  o f the LMF                                                                      l    M         I
  Delays in comprehensive reform of          Participatory approach including           M
  payments systems due to lack of            all stakeholders both, public and
  ownership by the private sector            private
  Overall Risk Rating                                                                    S
       RiskRating-H(High Risk), S (Substant d Risk),M(Modest Risk), N(Negligibleor Low Risk)      I




6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants
Effectiveness conditions
      1. Confirm the establishment of the permanent PCU and its staff.
     2. Submit to the Bank a copy of the signed agreement between the UNDP and the
          Government.
     3. Operational manual approved by the Bank.
     4. Deposit of counterpart funds for the first three months of implementation in the
          project account.
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancial analyses
Given the character of this operation, a quantitative economic and financial analysis would not
be the appropriate tool to assess the significance of this project. The pace and depth of the
reforms envisioned in this operation will determine the ultimate economic and financial benefits
o f this loan.
Iftheprojectiscarriedout successfully, itwillcontributetorestorethe soundnessofthe
financial system. A sound financial system would help to provide financial services to an
increasing segment of households and enterprises in DR, resulting in higher economic growth
and welfare inthe mediumand long terms.
2. Technical
The technical merits of the project design have been examined by Bank staff over the course of
project preparation and are considered to be sound and in line with international standards.
Technical assessment will continue throughout project preparation and implementation.
3. Fiduciary
The project will be executed by the PCU, headed by the BCRD and integrated by the other
agencies responsible of the different technical components. The Bank's procedures have been
usually adopted in the implementation of all the Bank's projects in DR. As a consequence, the


                                                14

primacy of the Bank's rules, documents and biddingdocuments has been recognized and will be,
in principle, respected also in the implementation of this FTAL. However, the BCRD and the
other agencies are not fully familiar with Bank's rules and procedures and for this reason have
approached the UNDPto act as procurement agent. Under the above described circumstances the
riskof implementation of this projectis considered average.
UNDP will act also as loan administrator. The UNDP office has and adequate financial
management system which meets the minimumBank requirements for financial management of
the proposed loan.
4. Social
a. What are the opportunities, constraints, impacts and risks arising out of the socio-cultural
andpolitical context?
The measures to be supported by this operation would have important social implications, as
they would reduce the probability of financial crisis and will diminishthe vulnerability of DR to
them. DR i s currently going through a severe banking crisis with important negative
macroeconomic implications. Although it i s too early to assess the full social impact of the crisis,
preliminary indications are that it has increased the vulnerability of households and workers, and
may have worsened the condition of the poorest affected by the high inflation that has resulted
from the sharp currency depreciation. The gains in poverty reduction achieved over the past ten
to fifteen years may be lost. The increased inflation rate i s resulting in a loss of purchasing
power, particularly for the basic commodities, slower demand for output i s likely to increase
unemployment and limit job opportunities for unskilled personnel in specific sectors like
construction and services. The reduction in fiscal revenues and in public expenditure, combined
with the increase in the prices of commodities, could affect the provision of basic social services
and social programs.
Thus, just a small reduction in the risk of a new banking crisis or avoiding the intensification of
the existing one, would have a significant social impact in terms o f reducing the potential
negative effects o f the bankingcrisis. A financial system less vulnerable to crisis i s better able to
sustain growth and, therefore, reduce poverty. Also the definition of an effective strategy to re-
capitalize the Central Bank, included as a component of this FTAL, will reduce inflationary
pressuresinthe country and, thus, its negative implications for the purchasingpower. Finally, the
establishment of a modern payments system will not only increase security in financial
transactions but will introduce efficiency in retail payments, a direct positive outcome for the
population.
b. How have key stakeholders (civil society, business, public sector, social, or other non-
governmental groups or individuals whose participation can positively or negatively afSect
project outcomes) participated in project preparation, and how will they be involved in
implementation, monitoring and evaluation?
The strategic decision regarding the project will involve a broad range of regulatory and
supervisory agencies within the country. In general, due to the confidentiality issues and the risks
of crisis intensification by sharing sensitive information, broad participation of the civil society i s
not considered. Inparticular, a participatory approach has been adopted for the modernization of
the payments system. The complexity of comprehensive reforms and the high level of




                                                  15

involvementlownership by all stakeholders, especially private financial sector entities, demand
this type of approach.
c. Are any of the following social issues (differential access to project benefits, traditional
rights or entitlements, conflicting demands on the same resources,positions of expected winners
and losers, risk of adverse social impacts of the project, social risks to the project, public
perception and degree of voice in governance, adequacy of targeting and delivery mechanisms)
important in theproject? N.A.
d. How will the main social impacts of theproject be monitored? N.A.
5. Environment
e. Are any of thefollowing environmental issues:
   i.    establishing policy, regulatory and institutional frameworks for environmentally
     sustainable growth and resource management, particularly in sectors that potentially aflect
     the environment;
  ii.    enhancing livelihoods of the poor through: (i) improved and transparent management of
     natural resources or (ii) reduced vulnerability to environmental change (e.g., natural
     disasters such asfloods);

 iii.    protecting people's healthfrom environmental risks andpollution;
important in theproject? No.
6. Safeguard policies
a. Which safeguard policies are triggered by this project?
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                              Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                  [ I                   [XI
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)
  Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP/GP 7.60)'
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

b. What is the safeguard screening category of the project? (Sl, S2, S3, SF) S3
c. What i s the environmental screening category of the project? (A, B, C,FI) C
d. Ifapplicable, what are the key safeguard policy issues raisedby the project?N.A.
e. If applicable, what are the main results of any safeguard policy related studies, and how have
they been incorporated into the project? N.A.


* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             16

f. What is the borrower's capacity to implement the safeguard policies recommendations, and,
ifthe capacity is insufficient, how will this capacity bebrought to the requiredlevel?N.A.
g. What type of consultations have been conducted related to safeguard issues? How did these
consultations influence project design? N.A.
h. Whenwere the safeguard studies made available at the Infoshop?N.A.
i.Whenandwhereweresafeguardstudiesmadeavailableinthecooperatingcountry?N.A.
7. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness
(a) Readiness
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete andready
for the start o f project implementation.
[XI 1.b)Not applicable.
[XI 2. The procurements documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[XI 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking andare discussed under loan conditions.
(b)      Compliance
[XI 1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other Bank policies.




Mario Guadamillas                                             Caroline D. Anstey
Team Leader                                                   Country Director




                                                 17

                       Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
            DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector Technical AssistanceLoan

1.Economicslowdownandmacroeconomicpolicyframework
The Dominican Republic (DR) enjoyed a fast growing economy with real GDP growth
averaging almost 8 percent per year from 1996 to 2000, a relatively low rate of inflation
averaging 7 percent per year, a stable exchange rate and a low total public sector debt. The fast
growth followed a series of reforms and policy choices initiated in the mid-l980s, that in effect
created a hybrid of an export-led model based on tourism and Free Trade Zones (FTZs)
manufacturing, and an import-substitution model based on trade protection and subsidies in the
pressures, coupled with a large current account deficit (averaging 3.6 percent of GDP during
2001-2002), led to a weakening of the peso which depreciated by 27 percent against the dollar
between December 2001 and December 2002, compared to a 2.7 percent devaluation the year
before.
The Central Bank failed to promptly tighten monetary policy and intervened heavily in the
private foreign exchange market to reduce pressures on the peso. This contributed to a sharp
decline of net international reserves from US$962 million in December 2001 to US$376 million
inDecember 2002. Rather, the Central Bank began to provide substantial liquidity assistance to
commercial banks, as some banks were not meeting reserve requirements because of large
deposit withdrawals. In mid-October 2002, the Central Bank lowered reserve requirements on
domestic currency deposits from 20 percent to 17 percent, as a way to ease liquidity shortfalls in
some banks. It appears that the reduction inreserve requirements was not prompted by an overall
liquidity shortage, but by the problems faced by some banks. The sharp swings in interest rates
and the large depreciation of the peso hurt commercial bank balance sheets. Non-performing
loans (NPLs) rose from about 2% percent at end-January to 6 percent at end-October 2002.
Duringthe same period, provisions fell from 125 percent of NPLsto 60 per~ent.~
In November 2002, Congress approved the Monetary and Financial Law (LMF). Box 1
summarizes the main provisions. In June 2003, the government announced key measures as part
of the 24-month Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF, further discussed in section 4 of
this Annex.
           Box 1: Summary of Main Provisions of the Monetary and FinancialLaw




  InJuly 2002, the definition of NPLs was widened to include not only the unpaid portion of the loan, but the entire
loan balance. This may explain about 2-3 percentage points of the increase in NPLs and why the provisions ratio
fell so much.


                                                       18

2. The bankingcrisis andthe deterioration of macroeconomic stability
Since 1989 Baninter had been operating a parallel bank by regularly issuing compromisos de
pago to depositors that were not registered in the formal accounts of the bank. Baninter used
deposits to finance non-productive and poorly administered businesses, generating negative cash
flows that were covered by overdrafts and loans. Baninter also encouraged large clients to open
accounts and make deposits in its Trust which operated in the Grand Cayman and was poorly
regulated. Baninter's funds were also used to finance social institutions and political groups
spanning three governments. Its off-shore subsidiaries in the Caribbean were not adequately
supervised as they fell outside of both the DR and the host country's purview.
Inmid-2002, Baninter (then the thirdlargest commercialbank) started to suffer a continuous loss
of deposits and by end-2002 the Central Bank had extended liquidity assistance of about three
times Baninter'sdeclared capital. Despite Baninter's non compliance with an early 2003 liquidity
regularization plan, it continued to receive liquidity injections from the Central Bank.
The macroeconomic impact of the Baninter debacle and the subsequent collapse of two medium-
size banks has been significant. Excess liquidity (due to the difference between liquidity
assistance to Baninter and sterilization actions) intensified the pressures on inflation and the
exchange rate, creating additional stress on a highly dollarized financial sector. The approach
pursued by the Government to address the financial sector crisis (i.e., committing to honor all
deposits) increases resolution costs and puts macroeconomic stability at risk. The massive fraud
that caused the collapse of Baninter confirms the existence of serious supervisory and regulatory
weaknesses in the financial system (which were identified in the 2001 FSAP) and more broadly
reveal institutional failures in key government institutions. The excessive liquidity provided by
the Central Bank to Baninter, well in excess of the statutory limit and, without full disclosure to
the Monetary Board, represents a serious failure of its top management and the Monetary Board
itself.
The bail-out from the Central Bank to Baninter did not prevent two other banks (Bancridito and
Banco Mercantil) from following suit. DR authorities have been able to reach deals for the three
troubled banks. Nova Scotia Bank acquired part o f the Baninter portfolio and also agreed with
the BCRD to administer part of the portfolio not acquired. BCRD overtook part o f the related
party portfolio of Bancridito and sold the rest to Grupo Le6n (the owner of Banco Profesional).
Finally, BCRD also overtook part of related party portfolio of Banco Mercantil and the Republic
Bank of Trinidad and Tobago acquired the rest. Given the widespread supervision weaknesses


  Were more risksto emerge in the banking system, two downside scenarios may follow inthe case of unsuccessful
crisis resolution. At one extreme, an inflation-devaluation spiral may become the politically preferred way to dilute


                                                          19

brought to light by the financial sector crisis, similar fraudulent operations may have taken place,
 although of smaller magnitude, in other banks. Baninter's fraud and the dynamics of its
 resolution also point to the dangers of the high concentration o f the country's banking sector (the
 four largest banks represent 71 percent of total commercial bank assets) and its control of the
 media, and highlight the need for better regulation and corporate governance arrangements inthe
country.
Public debt sharply increased from about 27.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 58.4
percent by end 2003. The jump inpublic debt reflects the combined effects of the increase in the
domestic debt of the Central Bank, new public debt resulting from the buy-out by Government of
two electricity distribution companies, the placement of two large bond issues in international
capital markets in September 2001 and January 2003 (US$1.1 billion), and the sharp
depreciation of the peso against the dollar. The policy choices exacerbated the effects of the
shocks, resulting in a sharp loss of reserves and strong pressures on the peso. Net international
reserves reached historically low levels, US$128 million, at end November 2003.
3. Financialsystem vulnerabilitiesidentifiedby the FSAP
The 2001 FSAP assessed the overall stability and made recommendations to address the
vulnerabilities of the financial system. It was particularly noted that the Dominican financial
system was subject to insufficient levels of capitalization and provisioning. The banking system
(76 percent of the financial system assets) and the savings and loans institutions (15 percent of
financial system assets) were identified as the main sectors where systemic risk could originate.
Credit risk was and still i s the most important risk factor facing financial institutions, stemming
from highinterest rates, increased lending in foreign currency and considerable concentration of
banks and borrowers.6 Imperfections in the interbank market compromise the capacity of banks
to respond quickly in the event of deposit runs. Overall compliance with the Basle Core
Principles of Banking Supervision was very weak.
The openness of the economy increases vulnerability to external shocks, although high real
domestic interest rates, averaging 16.5 percent a year from 1997-2001, helped, until the banking
crisis explode, to avoid a foreign exchange crisis. Increased dollarization of bank assets and
liabilities has increased credit risk due to lending in foreign currency to non-earners of foreign
exchange, and distortions in the foreign exchange market create uncertainty about the timely
availability of foreign exchange for individual banks.
Multiple linkages between certain private and public financial entities compromise the efficiency
of financial intermediation and impair the transparency of financial operations. Furthermore, a
complex network of non-bank financial institutions has resulted in a wide variety of regulations
that engender regulatory arbitrage, due to gaps in the institutional framework and poor financial
practices.
Improvement in a number of areas was indicated in the report, among them: a risk oriented
supervisory approach and training for staff o f the Superintendency of Banks; enhanced credit


peso liabilities (banking deposits and the debts of the government, corporations, and households) and to adjust real
expenditure -leading to a major regressive impact on income distribution and poverty levels. At the other extreme,
a run on the currency and bank deposits (Le., a major intensification of the twin crises) could, if the Central Bank
choosesnot to allow an inflation spiral, lead to some form of restructuring or securitization of deposits.
  It was difficult to establish clearly if, and by how much, asset quality had deteriorated because of inadequate
information and changes in prudential regulations.


                                                           20

riskexamination procedures; strengthening of bank capital and an increase of provisions to cover
for non-performing loans; liquidity management, both in domestic and foreign currencies;
development of interbank markets; improvement of the Superintendency of Insurance auditing
function; establishment of a National Payments Council; improvement of check processing;
completion of the Automated ClearingHouse Project; improvement of the legal and institutional
framework andjudicial enforcement. The FSAP stressedthat an important challenge faced by the
authorities was the development and approval o f regulations to implement the laws recently
passed (i.e., Pensions Law and Securities Law) and the LMF.
The FSAP team noticed that the authorities have been taking some action to address most of the
FSAP report recommendations but at a slow pace, impeding to identify and avoid the current
banking crisis. A monetary and financial law (LMF, Law No. 183-02) was approved in 2002,
that incorporates recommendations made by the FSAP team; efforts to improve the supervisory
function are ongoing; accounting rules have been brought closer to international standards; a new
anti-money laundering law (Law No. 72-02) was approved in 2002; and the Central Bank i s
working on improving its operations.
4. The IMFStand-byArrangement
To address the deterioration in the DR's economic performance and prevent a balance of
payments crisis, the Government entered into an IMF Stand-by Arrangement in August 2003.
The agreement contains policies to strengthen the banking sector, tighten fiscal policy and
improve budget management, tighten monetary policy, and liberalize exchange rate
management.
Onfiscal policy, among other measures a tax reform package is to be prepared and presented to
Congress in July 2004, and a new budget organic law and a new integrated financial
management system law will be implemented in 2004. On the monetary sector, competitive
auction for the placement of Central Bank papers will be implemented, a rediscount window to
provide liquidity for Central Bank papers will be activated and a plan for the re-capitalization of
the Central Bank will be prepared. Regarding exchange rate management, the foreign exchange
market i s being unified.
On the financial sector the agreement covers five pillars:

    i)       Resolution of Baninter. All legitimate deposits and external credit lines should be
             transferred to other private banks without imposing losses or freezings. If this i s not
             possible, deposits should be transferred to Banco de Reservas with adequate
             counterparties. If this i s not possible, the BCRD will pay eligible liabilities incash or
             cash-like instruments, without imposing losses in their net present value. The
             difference between the market value of Baninter's assets and its legitimate liabilities
             will be covered by BCRD certificates and/or cash. Once all transfers and sales of
             assets have been completed, the bank should be put under liquidation according to the
             LMF.
    ii)      Adopt measures to ensure that there is no fraud in other banks. Place a permanent
             overseer in all financial institution using liquidity support in excess of 75 percent of
             capital. Place weak financial institutions (according to the LMF and the SB) under a
             time-bound regularization plan. Resolve immediately banks not complying with the




                                                    21

     regularization plan or if the situation further deteriorates. Strictly apply the LMF and
     the financial emergency framework to any liquidity support from BCRD.
iii) Reinforce the transparency of financial institutions. Develop and approve a
     communication plan to clearly explain the steps ensuring banking soundness and
     transparency, in a way that reinforces creditor confidence. Include actions to keep the
     public informed of the bank restructuringprogress, at least on a monthly basis.
iv) Implement a bank resolution framework. Issue a Monetary Board Resolution on
    Financial Emergencies to enable the use of bank resolution instruments adequate to
     address potential systemic weakness, including enabling the use of public funds for
     bank recapitalization and resolution, under strict guidelines. Apply this legal
     framework for resolving any weak bank in the system that may have systemic
     implications.
v)   Strengthen prudential regulations. Develop critical by-laws required to enforce the
    LMF.Bringprudential regulations in line with international best practices. Approve
     and implement the by-law and procedure that will allow the SB to complete the
    liquidation of the financial institutions currently in liquidation under its control.
    Finalize the liquidation of these institutions, except for those which have been
    challenged in court. Approve and implement the remaining by-laws for the full
     implementation of the LMF.




                                           22

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
          DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan
FY00-02 CAS period
WorldBank Group
No lending projects on the financial sector or any related sector have been supported by the
World Bank Groupin the last CAS cycle.
However, the World Bank Group has supported analytical and dissemination work in the
financial sector. Inpartnership with the IMF, the Bank completed a Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) in 2002, coupled with ensuing technical assistance provided to the Central
Bank, for the LMF and the assessment of payments and securities settlement systems under the
Western Hemisphere Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Initiative (WHI). In
addition, IFC sponsored through technical assistance a 3-week regional capital markets seminar
in Santo Domingo, which was attended by private and public sector officials from eight LAC
countries. The seminar resulted in specific country action plans to develop securities markets
while fostering regional cooperation.
Development Partners
The IADB has supported the banking supervision strengthening through a US$2.6 million
FOMIN program ("Programa de Reforma del Sectro Financiero") that was approved at the end
of 2000 and began to operate in the first semester of 2001. Its main objective i s to improve the
quality of banking regulation and supervision.
October 2003-April 2005
The IADB and the Bank are expected to back the implementation o f the IMF program by (i)
supporting the reform of the financial sectors, (ii)
                                                   lessening the impact of the economic crisis on
the poor and (ii)providing emergency support to overcome the power sector crisis of 2003.
The IMF, the IADB and the Bank agreed to coordinate technical assistance to the DR to back the
IMFstrategy for the reform of the financial sector. A first phase will deal with the most urgent
needs, particularly the on-site inspections and audits for the entire banking system and the
preparation of the most urgent regulations for the implementation of the Monetary andFinancial
Law approved in 2003. The IMF and IADB will provide the financial resources to undertake this
first phase.
The World Bank will contribute to the technical debate during this first phase and will finance
the second phase with the TA loan.




                                                23

                      Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan


                                 Outcome Indicators                 Use of Results Information
Strengthening the       Central Bank re-capitalization        YRl.
institutionalcapacity   strategy allows for more efficient    Ensure existence o f strategy for the re-
of the monetary         implementation o f monetary and       capitalization o f the Central Bank
authorities to improve  fiscal policies.                      compatible with the M F Stand-by
the designand                                                 Arrangement.
implementationof        Efficient supervisory function and    Ensure that regulations are in effect.
monetary and fiscal     enforcement of the LMFthrough         Determine if plans to implement and
policies.               issuance of its regulatory            design a debt management strategy are
                        development.                          adequate.
                                                              YR2-YR3.
                        Reductionand better control o f       Ensure regulations are observed by
                        government debt exposure through      financial institutions and enforced by
                        the implementation o f the debt       the Banking Superintendency.
                        management function that allows       Ensure effective implementation of a
                        for a) competitive mechanisms such    debt management strategy based on
                        as auctions (front office); b) design cost-risk trade-off methodology for the
                        o f risk management strategies        public sector as a whole (e.g. for both
                        (middle office): and c) efficiently   central govemment and Central Bank
                        and securely register government      debt).
                        debt.                                 YR4.
                                                              Ensuredebt management function
                                                              fully operational.
Strengthening the      Reductionof crisis probability and     YR1.
institutionalcapacity  increase of efficiency levels in the   Ensure existence o f solid institutional
of the financial       financial sector, measuredby           development plans for each
regulatory agencies to increase in MUGDPratio.                Superintendency.
reduce risks and                                              Determine if integrated national
increase efficiency,                                          payments system strategy needs
transparency and                                              changes.
accountability of                                             YE-YR3.
financial activities.                                         Review effective implementation of
                                                              the plans in the different areas
                                                              addressed (supervisory functions and
                                                              analysis, strategic planning,
                                                              institutional reorganization, skills
                                                              improvement training, IT equipment).
                                                              Ensure effective implementation o f the
                                                              new payment systems and adequate
                                                              legal and regulatory framework.
                                                              YR3-YR4.
                                                              Assess improvements in the
                                                              institutional capacity o f the
                                                              Superintendencies once institutional
                                                              development plans have been
                                                              implemented.


                                                  24

                                                                 Ensure that new payment systems are
                                                                 3perational and BCRDoversight
                                                                 Functionestablished and coordinated
                                                                 with relevant agencies.
                                                                                "
  IntermediateResults         ResultsIndicatorsfor Each               Useof Outcome Monitoring
  One per Component                    Component
 Component One:            Component One:                        Component One:
 Strategy to re-capitalize   Strategy for the re-capitalization  YR 1.
 the Central Bank and        of Central Bank compatible with       Strategy compatible with the IMF
 statistics improvement      the lMF Stand-by Arrangement.         SBA endorsedby the BCRD.
                             Monetary andfinancial statistics
                             of the Central Bank inline with
                             internationalstandards.
 Component Two:            Component Two :                       ComponentTwo:
 Strengthening of the        Assessments of banks'               YR 1.
 institutional capacity of   technological risk inplace.          0Supervisory function including
 the Banking                 Regulationfor banks' extemal          examination of IT systems.
 Superintendency (SB)        auditors inplace establishing the    0SB able to enforce accountability of
                             minimumcontent of banks'              the external auditors.
                             audits reports, the suitability of    Formulation ofjob's description,
                             banks' extemal auditors, and          performance evaluation criteria,
                             disciplinary rules for those          recruitmentpolicies, career
                             auditors that fail to performtheir    development, and training program
                             responsibility in accordance with    0Enhancement of information sharing
                             this regulation.                      with the Central Bank.
                             Banks' auditors register in place.  YR2-Y R4.
                             Banks subject to on and off-site     0Existence of adequatecombination
                             riskfocused supervision.              of skills to perform its duties,
                                                                   ensuringcontinuity.
                                                                  0Ability to detect problems inbanks
                                                                   at an early stage and to adopt early
                                                                   measuresto cope with them.
                                                                  0Refinement of the examination
                                                                   manual and training done.
                                                                   Refinement and implementationof
                                                                   all the modules of the off-site
                                                                   monitoring system.
                                                                   Off-site manualfor other supervised
I                                                                  institutions. Further improvement of
                                                                   the off-site manual(stress testing.)
 Component Three:          Component Three:                      ComponentThree:
 Strengthening of the       0Supervised institutions subject to  YR 1.
 institutional capacity of   on- and off-site surveillance.        A high-level committeeconsisting
 the Securities              Regulatory framework supportive       of all relevant supervisory and other
 Superintendency (SIV)       of the level of market                government agencies as well as
                             development issued.                   private sector representatives i s
                             Knowledge about the functioning       formed.
                             and benefits of capital markets       A national strategy for capital
                             expanded through development of       markets development and promotion
                             outreach m-omams.                     i s designed and adopted.


                                                    25

                                                              0 Register designed and main groups
                                                                of instruments as well as market
                                                                participants registered.
                                                                Inspectionmanuals developed.
                                                              YR2-YR3.
                                                               0A viable accompanyingbusiness
                                                                plan for the Stock Exchange has
                                                                been developed.
                                                               0Outreach programs devised and
                                                                implementedthrough meetings with
                                                                potential investors of different size
                                                                and ages as well as issuers.
                                                                MateriaVpamphlets/web-based
                                                                educational material developed and
                                                                distributed.
                                                              0 Relevant part of the register made
                                                                available to the public.
                                                                Existence of supporting manuals,
                                                                operational rules and regulationfor
                                                                SIV.
                                                               0Seminars held for staff and
                                                                management of institutionsunder
                                                                regulation of the SIV.
                                                               0Training of on-site inspectors
                                                                completed.
                                                                Some on-site inspections completed
                                                                with signed managementletters.
                                                               0Off-site surveillance system
                                                                allowing for risk-based supervision
                                                                of the institutionsfunctional.
                                                                Software and hardware neededto
                                                                support the activities inplace and
                                                                operational.
                                                              YR4:
                                                                Assess capacity and ability of the
                                                                SIV to undertake securities markets
                                                                supervision.
                                                                Assess existence of adequate
                                                                combination of skills to perform its
                                                                duties. ensuring:continuitv.
ComponentFour:            ComponentFour:                      ComponentFour:
Strengtheningof the        Supervised institutions subject to YR 1.
institutional capacity of  risk-based supervision.              Formulation ofjob descriptions,
the Insurance              Financial returns filed by           performance evaluation criteria,
Superintendency (SS)       companies in electronic from and     recruitment policies, career
                           subject to immediate computer        development, and training program.
                           analysis.                          0 Development of new procedures
                           Development of a cadre of            manuals for use in both on-site and
                           actuarial experts in SS.             off-site work.
                                                                Acquisition of appropriate IT


                                                 26

                                                                  technology and software.
                                                                YR2-YR3.
                                                                 0Training completed for
                                                                  implementationof new procedures.
                                                                 0Software prepared for electronic
                                                                  filing.
                                                                 0Actuarial training courses launched.
                                                                  Reductions in staff-size underway.
                                                                YR4.
                                                                  Capacity to apply effective risk-
                                                                  based supervision and to implement
                                                                  neededremedial action plans.
                                                                 0Ability to detect financial problems
                                                                  with insurance companies at an
                                                                  early stage and to adopt early
                                                                  measures for dealing with them.
                                                                 0Existence of a cadre of competent
                                                                  actuarial staff.
                                                                 0Proper functioning of electronic
                                                                  filing andrelatedearly warning
                                                                  svstem.
 Component Five:           Component Five:                       Component Five:
 Strengthening of the       Supervised institutions subject to  YR1.
 institutional capacity of  on and off-site surveillance.        0Determine if staff level and training
 the Pensions              0Regulatory framework for              targets by area have been met in
 Superintendency            investments issuedthat i s            agreementwith the strategic
 (SIPEN)                    appropriate given existingand         plannjng.
                            projected state of capital markets.  0EnsureCommittee for Risk
                           0Regulations and institutional         Classification determines
                            framework for determination of        investment limits basedon sound
                            eligibility for disability benefits   analysis taking into account market
                            inplace.                              conditions.
                            Coordination with other agencies      Ensurethat processesfor mergers in
                            inplace measuredby the                pension fund industry are well
                            existence of formal coordination      designed and functioning properly.
                            mechanisms (MOUs,                    0Determine areas where coordination
                            Committees, etc.).                    i s neededwith insurance regulator
                                                                  inthe areaof annuity products
                                                                  includingdevelopment of actuarial
                                                                  tables.
                                                                YR2-3.
                                                                 0Ensure that regulations are being
                                                                  followed by market participants
                                                                  (AFPs.)
                                                                 0Ensure disability certification
                                                                   mechanism i s in place.
                                                                  Ability to track daily activities of
                                                                   A F p s with regardto investments
                                                                   and valuation practices.
I                                                                  Key indicators of new pension


                                                    27

                                                             system available to public inprinted
                                                             and electronic (including web-
                                                             based) media.
                                                             Ensureeffective coordination with
                                                             other agencies involved inthe
                                                             pension system including DIDA, the
                                                             Insurance supervision, UNIPAGO
                                                             and the Social Security Treasury.
Component Six:          Component Six:                      Component Six:
Comprehensive            Substantial reduction inthe use ofYR1.
payments and securities  paper basedpayment instruments.    0Availability of an effective project
clearanceand settlement  (Currently, some 26 million         component coordinationunit.
systemreform             checks are processedannually.)     0Agreed integrated national system
                         Expeditedavailability of final      strategy i s in place.
                         funds to beneficiaries from an      New system acquisition plans and
                         average of four days to no more     issuance of biddingdocuments.
                         than two days with same day         Draft and approvalof the regulatory
                         availability of all large value     development of the LMFregarding
                         transfers.                          the payments system.
                         Elimination of settlement risk    YR2-Y R3.
                         (payments and primaryhecondary      Acquisition, testing and effective
                         market securities transfers.)       implementation of the RTGS and
                         Opportunities for commercial        Automated Check Clearing System.
                         banks to provide new fee based      Availability of appropriate Legal &
                          services; e.g. expedited funds     Regulatory underpinning.
                         transfer andcorporate cash        YR3-Y R4.
                         management services.                Ensure Delivery of sought after
                                                              organizational and businessbenefits.
                                                             Ensure Existence of interfaces with
                                                              General Ledger System, Securities
                                                              Settlement System operational.
                                                            0 Ensure interbank money market
                                                              settlement arrangements allow for
                                                              electronic collateralization.
                                                            0 Review efficiency, risk and service
                                                              improvements.
                                                            0 Ensureestablishment of the BCRD
                                                              oversight function and coordination
                                                              arrangements.
Component Seven:        Component Seven:                    Component Seven:
Regulatory               Regulations issued and enforced.   YR1.
Development of the                                          0 Ensurethat regulations are ineffect.
LMF                                                         YR2.
                                                            0 Ensureregulations are observed by
                                                              financial institutions and enforced
                                                              by the Banking Superintendency.
Component Eight:        Component Eight:                    Component Eight:
Debt managementand       Organizationalchanges inthe        YR1.
development of fixed     Ministryof Finance with creation     Approval of the Law for the
income markets           of a new department (Crkdito         organizational changes inthe


                                                 28

 Pliblico.)                        Ministry of Finance.
0Establishment of a modem debt    0Strategic staffing plans developed
 managementfunction in             and implemented for the debt
 accordancewith IMF/WB             managementfunction.
 guidelines.                      0A consolidated database for
 Registration of all payment       registration of government debt
 obligations of the central        verified for accuracy and
 government including suppliers'   operational.
 credits in arrears.              0Systems allowing calculation of
 Strengtheningandfurther           basic risk variables (such as
 development of the money          duration, average maturity,
 market includingthe development   remaining maturity, fx composition)
 of a repo- measuredby an          operational.
 increase inthe value of          0A standardmasterrep0agreement
 transactionsundertaken n this     signed by major market participants.
 market                           0A legalopinion achieved as to the
                                   legal applicability of the rep0
                                   contract.
                                 YRZYR3.
                                  0Staff with financial skills hired and
                                   tumover kept at low levels.
                                  0Training received in: a) auction
                                   design and execution; b) liability
                                   riskmanagement, andc) back-office
                                   operations.
                                  0Transparency of operations
                                   increasedthrough publication of
                                   debt figures, debt management
                                   strategy plans, etc.
                                  0Some competitive placement of
                                   domestic central government debt
                                   completed.
                                  0Suppliercredits in arrears being
                                   registered to a substantial extent.
                                  0Interest rate, re-financing and fx risk
                                   reports developed and presented to
                                   senior managementon a regular
                                   basis.
                                  0A short-term debt issuancestrategy
                                   definingtype of instruments to be
                                   issued, target size of issues, method
                                   of issuance, etc. developed.
                                  0Commercial PaperMarket
                                   standardized.
                                  YR4.
                                  0Ensure debt management function i s
                                   fully operational and efficient.
                                  0Review improvements in the
                                   operation of the fixed income
                                   markets.


                       29

Component Nine:       Component Nine:                  Component Nine:
Contingencies to deal  Iftriggered, quickresolution of YR1-YR4
with potential          new potential cases of crisis   Iftriggered, ensurebankingcrisis
intensification of      banks.                           management is in line with IMF
banlungcrisis                                            Stand-by Arrangement.




                                             30

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan

The Dominican Republic's growth prospects were seriously jeopardized by a financial crisis in
2003 and gains in poverty reduction achieved over the past ten to fifteen years are in risk. As
highlighted by the new CAS, the most urgent structural and institutional reforms in order to
move forward are those of the financial and energy sectors. The suggested loan concentrates on
the former.

The loan will tackle a number of vulnerable areas of the financial system. More specifically it
will help to formulate a strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank and improve statistics
compilation and analysis; strengthen the institutional capacity of the Banking, Securities,
Insurance and Pensions Superintendencies; reform the Payments and Securities Settlement
Systems; assist with the regulatory development of the LMF; aid in debt management and in the
development of fixed income markets; and provide for contingencies to deal with potential
intensification of the banking crisis.

Each component addresses a separate, yet vital and pendingissue in the financial sector, and the
loan i s designed to integrate solutions into building a strong safety net and ensuring the long term
financial sustainability of the sector. As a consequence, improving access, quality of service and
efficiency of the sector will be central towards the ongoing Bank's efforts to support the
achievement of the MDGs. The components' objectives are in line with the country's
arrangements with the IMF.

ProjectComponent1- US$0.35 million
Strategy to re-capitalizethe CentralBank andstatisticsimprovement

The approach pursued by the Government to limit contagion in the banking system (Le.,
committing to honor all deposits) increases resolution costs and, due to their size compared to the
fiscal capacity of the country, puts macroeconomic stability at risk. Estimates indicate that the
costs of the crisis could be about 20 percent of the GDP, including the resolution of Baninter,
BancrCdito and Banco Mercantil. The interest service on the Certificates already issued b y the
Central Bank i s likely to cost the equivalent of 1.5-2 percent of GDP this year, increasing to 2-3
percent of GDP in the coming years, putting at risk monetary policy due to their very short
maturity. The internationally-assisted inspections of the remaining banks will determine if there
are additional vulnerabilities inthe system leading to undercapitalization of other banks.

Thus, the Central Bank is generating a large quasi-fiscal deficit on account of liquidity assistance
provided to weak and failing banks. The adverse impact of a continuously deteriorated balance
sheet of the Central Bank poses a risk of constraining monetary policy and of favoring the
inflationary financing o f public debt.

This component will focus on:

(a)      defininga strategyto re-capitalizethe CentralBank in view of the largequasi-fiscal
deficit.The FTAL will help the Central Bank to analyze its balance sheet dynamics (including


                                                  31

potential linkages with other macroeconomic aggregates and development implications) aiming
at designing a strategy to facilitate the Central Bank re-capitalization. Otherwise, a deteriorated
balance sheet of the Central Bank poses a highrisk of constraining monetary policy and favoring
inflationary financing of the quasi-fiscal deficit.

(b)     improvement of the Central Bank statistics to bring them closer to international
standards: including the classification of financial instruments, sectorization of the economy,
monetary aggregates compilation and statistical treatment of banks inliquidation.

ProjectComponent2 US$2.49 million
                         -
Strengtheningof the institutionalcapacityof the BankingSuperintendency(SB)
The Superintendency of Banks (SB) has been unable to prevent bank failures by effectively
supervising the banking system and ensuring that banks operate in a safe and sound manner and
hold sufficient capital to support the risks that arise in their business. The FSAP exercise of 2001
found weak compliance with Base1Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision (BCPs)-
only one principle was considered as partly compliant. The FSAP also noted that bank regulation
was structurally weak due to governance and legal shortcomings, affecting the SB regulatory
powers, enforcement capacity, decision-making processes, staff training and autonomy. It also
observed that albeit the prudential framework had been strengthened, the supervisory function
remained weak and institutional capacity in most of the government agencies dealing with the
supervision of the financial system should be significantly strengthened. Banking sector
supervision should be strengthened further b y vesting all key powers, including the powers to
issue enforcement measures and impose penalties, in a single supervisory agency; conducting
consolidated supervision of financial groups; providing legal protection for supervisors in the
exercise of their functions; reorienting on-going supervision from compliance-checking to
comprehensive risk-focused supervision; reforming loan classification and provisioning norms,
after improving compliance with current (insufficient) risk-based loan loss provisions; and
giving more emphasis to the assessment of the banks' management, governance and internal
controls.

Several o f these deficiencies are being dealt with by the LMF and by the on-going Program for
Strengthening Banking Regulation and Supervision, supported by the IADB-FOMIN. This
program addresses most supervisory deficiencies at a general level. They include the
strengthening of the SB and the improvement o f prudential regulations and of supervision under
two broad modules: the introduction of a new supervisory focus, including enhanced on- and off-
site supervision, and the enhancement of the management o f the SB's human and technological
means. While the IADB program will focus on the diagnosis work, the Bank will take care of its
implementation, including further development o f existing components, new components that
become essential during the crisis, and training.

The main deficiencies in banking supervision exposed by the crisis point at the deficient
organization of the supervisory agency, compounded by the lack of independence o f supervisors.
Moreover, the banking crisis has unveiled other particular issues such as an undue reliance on
audit reports that have proven to be inaccurate; lack of IT supervision, including the
configuration of the balance sheets and other supervisory returns of banks; disregard o f risks




                                                  32

other than credit risk; and the ineffectiveness of off-site analysis in the early detection of
problem banks. Thus, the sub-components of the strengthening of banking supervision include:

(a)      IT auditing function: this component will enable bank supervisors to assess both
technological risk and to identify malpractices in banks' register procedures. The proposed loan
will support the acquisition of equipment and the drafting of an IT systems evaluation manual, as
well as the necessary training to implement it.
(b)      External audits accountability: the loan will help improve prudential regulation for
banks' external auditors that are compliant with internationalbest practices, including suitability
of auditors, minimum procedures to be completed by the auditing firms, information available
for supervisors, and a penalty regime for auditors that do not observe minimumstandards, among
others. While capacity i s built within the SB, a set of regulatory provisions for auditors would
rapidly improve financial information of Dominican banks.
(c)      Institutional strengthening of the SB: the objective i s to build effective bank
supervision in the SB in the medium term. The proposed loan will support the design and
implementation of an institutional development plan for the SB, including a supervisory strategy,
the reinforcement of the internal organization, and the reinforcement of human resources.
Particularly, the plan will contemplate the optimal structure of the SB, and a comprehensive HR
strategy, including formulation of jobs' description, performance evaluation criteria, recruitment
policies, career development, and training program. Furthermore, the risk of political
interference will be minimized, through a change inLMFor the drafting of relevant regulations.
(d)      Implementation of risk-focused supervision: the IADB-FOMIN program has financed
the completion of an on-site examination manual that, in general, addresses most of the needs of
bank supervisors. The proposed loan will help to build the capacity within the SB to carry out
risk-oriented supervision in all the areas of the banking business, by refining this manual as
warranted and by providing the necessary training to implement it.
(e)      Fullimplementation of the off-site analysis manual: the IADB-FOMIN program has
financed the completion o f an off-site analysis handbook, which aims at enabling bank
supervisors to early detect problems in banks. The proposed loan will help to include some
components that are not yet present, such as the analysis of non-bank financial institutions and
stress testing. In addition, the loan will help to ensure that basic information (i.e. information on
liquidity that rests with the BCRD) flows smoothly into the system. Also, the proposed loan will
support broad training among supervisors inthe use of this new methodology.

Project Component 3 - US$0.99 million
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the SecuritiesSuperintendency (SIV)
The securities markets in the Dominican Republic are still in an embryonic stage. Market
infrastructures have evolved in a traditional fashion centered around the exchange - Bolsa de
Valores de la Repu'blica Dominicana- and the, currently, 21 brokers. In May 2000 a new
framework securities markets law -Ley del Mercado de Valores No. 19-2000 - was enacted. On
January lSt,  2003 a securities commission - the Superintendencia de Valores de la Repu'blica
Dominicana (SIV) - became operational. The SIV i s in its nascent stage of development both in
regard to institutional structure, internal capacity, and regulatory framework. While the market
institutions and infrastructures are evolving, the market itself i s largely dormant. There are no
equity issues, and the only market segments with some primary as well as secondary market
activity are the commercial paper and the Central Bank paper markets. Moreover, the



                                                  33

commercial paper market i s dominated by issues with very short maturity and issued by financial
institutions.

The development of the securities markets in the Dominican Republic has been affected by a
number of structural characteristics of the corporate and financial sector, as well as the funding
strategies o f the central government and the Central Bank. The Dominican corporate sector i s
dominated by family owned companies with a history of organic growth and reliance mainly on
supplier credits, receivables and banks for external financing. Corporate capital market financing
has primarily been in the form of commercial paper, often issued by large well-know company
groups through special purpose vehicles and with some liquidity guarantees provided by a bank.
The banking sector is, in turn, highly concentrated, with the five largest banks controlling almost
four-fifths of all bank assets.

This traditional corporate and financial sector structure has not promoted the transparency or
funding activities needed to support the growth of a capital market. Recent M&A activity, not
least in the form of foreign direct investment, has, however, illustrated that there i s a price to pay
for lack of (accounting) transparency, which could promote the greater transparency needed for
future capital markets development. The ongoing efforts to implement pensionreforms inthe DR
will also support the development of capital markets, not only through the accumulation of long
term savings, but also through the elevation of market standards, which will be requiredif issuers
would want to tap into the resource base accumulated by institutional investors.

The central government has funded deficits primarily through domestic loans from the state
owned Banco de Reservas, supplier arrears, and foreign concessional as well as commercial
loans (including US1.1. billion in two bonds maturing in 2006 and 2013).                  The market
perception i s that the credit quality of the government i s poor, reflected in the discount of 50 to
60 percent that "Bonos de Le.y 104'' are traded at, if buyers can be found at all. The government,
consequently, does not provide the traditional local currency "risk-free" investment alternative to
the public. This is provided by the BCRD through its issuance of certificates of deposits and
more recently the "Certifcados de Znversiones" used to compensate depositors in failed bank(s).
The secondary market in both central government and Central Bank paper i s virtually non-
existent, with most investors holding the papers to maturity.

These structural characteristics of the fixed income market help explain why private sector issues
dominate this segment. However, as the trading restrictions on the CertiJicados de Znversiones
are lifted, the possibility of developing a more active secondary market inboth outright and rep0
transactions will emerge. If   the government rigorously keeps to the payment schedule for the old
and new bonds issued to clear arrears, slowly credibility in this market segment will be
established and secondary market activity will increase. A key medium term component in the
creation of such credibility will be the establishment of a formal sovereign debt management
framework. As the BCRD now also has a considerable longer-term debt burden, especially from
the issuance of Certificados de Inversions, a broader debt management strategy needs to include
the BCRD as well.

While the structural characteristics of the corporate and financial system, the limited size of the
economy, and the payment history of the government have been factors in the dismal



                                                 34

development o f the capital markets in the DR, the possibility of more robust development of the
capital markets exists. This i s so due to the appearance of an institutional investor base, emerging
changes in the corporate sector and a concerted effort on behalf of the government to strengthen
debt management practices.

The FTAL seeks to support a gradual development of the market through two major components
focusing on securities markets, government debt management and fixed income markets. The
main focus of the securities markets component i s capacity building at the level of the newly
established SIV. However, to allow for efficient allocation and prioritization of resources, given
the current and realistically expected future level of market development, the securities markets
component also envisions support for the creation of a national strategy for securities market
development and promotion. Thus, the sub-components of the strengthening of the SIV include:

(a)     National strategy for securities market development and promotion: the strategy for
securities market development and promotion should be developed in a cooperative fashion
between the government, the Central Bank, and the private sector. The strategy should
encompass all elements of the market, including the fixed income market, and take into account
the emerging needs of the nascent institutional investor sector. It should seek to ensure that the
regulatory framework employed i s appropriate for and supportive of the level of market
development. While international standards for securities market regulation should be the end-
goal, they may not be fully appropriate for this stage in market development. Furthermore, the
need for supporting infrastructure - such as trading systems, etc. - may be limited, so the
strategy should seek to take into account a realistic business model for exchange services. To
ensure this reach over both regulatory and business topics, the effort will be assisted by an
international consultant with experience in the business as well as the regulatory side of capital
markets. The national strategy will include the design and first implementing steps of a capital
markets promotional campaign, which i s needed to expand capital market products and investor
base beyond its current low levels. This component could be developed further in cooperation
with the World Bank Institute.
(b)     Establishment of a central register of market instruments and participants: an
important element in increasing transparency and ensuring proper supervision of the capital
markets i s the development of a comprehensive register of outstanding instruments as well as
companies and individuals active in giving advise or intermediating in capital market product.
The proposed loan will provide support for the design and implementation of such a registry.
(c)     Issuance of       secondary regulation       and     accompanying        manuals:     efficient
implementation of a regulatory framework for capital markets requires not only the issuance of
the remaining secondary regulation but also development of manuals and other accompanying
material to be used by the S I V as well as market participants in their compliance effort. While
the framework regulation i s in place, a full set of enforceable secondary regulations i s missing.
The exact design of these regulations will, subject to the constraints of the law, in large part be
determined by the specific national strategy for securities market development. A major part of
this component is also envisioned to be concentrated at assisting the practical implementation of
these rules and regulations, both at the level o f the regulated market intermediaries and issuers,
and the day-to-day enforcement effort of the S I V through development o f enforcement manuals,
material for regulated firms, seminars, etc.




                                                 35

(d)     Development of on- and off-site surveillance functions at SIV: the SIV i s still in an
early stage of development and has neither a team of inspectors in place nor off-site surveillance
systems allowing any kind of supervision of the capital markets. The proposed loan will support
the development of such systems and prioritization of scarce resources through support for
development o f a riskbased supervisory framework, which takes explicitly into account the level
of market development, and the effect this kind of regime shift may have on market participants
not used to any kindof supervision.
(e)     Procurement of IT systems (hardware and software) to support S I V activities: the
efficient functioning of the SIV requires investments in IT to support both the supervisory and
transparency enhancing activities of the SIV. The proposed loan may support the development of
an IT strategy, as well as the procurement of soft- and hardware to support such a strategy. Due
care will be taken not to over-invest in IT, but rather scale IT investments to the activities in the
market.

Project Component 4 - US$1.64 million
Strengthening of the institutionalcapacity of the Insurance Superintendency (SS)
The insurance market in the DR i s not well developed as measured by the degree of
"penetration," expressed in terms of premiums as a percentage of GDP. There are systemic
impediments to its development, as a result of the tax system and also as a result of the restrictive
regulatory regime within which insurance companies must operate.

Insurance business in the DR operates under a significant fiscal burden. Company profits are
taxed at 25 percent and a value added tax (VAT) i s collected on all premiums received.
Characteristically, life insurance sales in the DR are very small as a proportion of total business,
since residents can easily purchase life insurance in Puerto Rico or Miami, escaping VAT.
During 2001, the VAT was raised 12 percent and a special "up front" tax system was imposed
that essentially anticipates the tax on operating profits.

A new law has been adopted in 2002 (Ley de Seguros Privados, No. 146-02) but the existing
regulatory system i s still deficient in some important aspects such as the corporate governance
andthe prudential investmentlimits on investments with a single issuer. Corporate law inthe DR
does not contain all the best practices o f modem corporate governance. It also fails to implement
a solvency marginregime.

 The SS should review its mandate and the efficiency o f its activities; currently, 800 employees
supervise an industry with just over 40 players where the volume of premium income i s very
modest. Another system of inspections could be at least as effective, without demanding such an
application of resources. There i s also a lack o f experience as there are no actuaries in the
country. Non-competitive salaries, lack of training and lack of technology are some of the factors
that impede the development of this expertise.

The current inspections consist mainly in verification of information filed with the supervisor
and checking of compliance with requirements, while not enough energy is devoted to
assessment of risks facing insurance companies. The emphasis on the inspections should be
shifted to a risk-based assessment of the company and its future prospects.




                                                  36

Accounting practices, governed by the Catdogo de Cuentus issued by the Superintendency o f
Insurance (SS), need updating in order to take account of new product developments and new
financial techniques. A serious shortcoming in the supervisory system i s the lack of a
requirement for the appointment of any actuary by insurance companies. This is likely due to the
mentioned scarcity o f such professionals in the country but i s a serious shortcoming in the
supervisory system.

The insurance sector has been largely affected by the recent banking crisis as many companies
were linked to banking groups. The development of the new Social Security Law has also
important implications for the insurance sector. The sub-components of the strengthening of the
SS include:

(a)    Review and update of the legislation: the proposed loan will support an expert
consultant to identify gaps inthe legislation and determine what supporting regulations should be
prepared. The powers of the Superintendency will be considered and the authority to create
secondary legislation will be clarified.
(b)    Implementation of risk-based supervision: consultants will guide work teams within
the Superintendency in revising procedures for off-site and on-site monitoring of companies.
New manuals will be developed and working papers for analysts and inspectors will be
prescribed. Training will be provided as needed, with implementation beingthe central aim.
(c)    Procurement of IT systems (hardware and software) to modernize the system of
supervision: this component will support the development of a network of PCs within the
Superintendency and a link to companies, such that information can be submitted electronically.
Software will be acquired or created to permit electronic filing and the automatic application of
early warning tests. Training will be provided as needed.
(d)    Development of actuarial capacity as part of supervision: the proposed loan will
organize a program of technical training, using international experts who will provide a course
for competent members o f staff. People with evidence o f basic competence (e.g. degree in
mathematics) will be identified and candidates will be selected on the basis of a preliminary
examination. The objective i s to train a small cadre of experts, but also to raise the general level
of understanding of the actuarial aspects.
(e)    Human Resource Management: this component will aim to restructure and right-size
the agency. Skills and profiles required will be identified. A system that links salary levels to
competencies will be promoted. Job security must be guaranteed, avoiding frequent rotations.

Project Component 5 US$1.49 million
                        -
Strengtheningof the institutional capacity of the Pensions Superintendency (SIPEN)
A new Social Security system was established under Law 87-01 that includes a mandatory
pension scheme. The system will gradually replace the mandatory public pension schemes runby
the Znstituto Dominican0 de Seguridad Social (IDSS) for private sector workers and the Ministry
of Finance in the case of civil servants. It follows the model found in 10 other Latin American
countries whereby contributions to individual accounts are administered by specialized firms
which invest the funds in domestic and sometimes, international capital markets. The
accumulated balances are eventually converted into benefits upon retirement, disability or death.




                                                 37

As in the majority of countries with this type of system, a specialized supervisor, known as
Superintendencia de Pensiones (SIPEN), i s responsible for monitoring the activities of a
relatively small number of companies. The supervisory stance i s both reactive and proactive and
the AFPs are required to follow a detailed and strict set of guidelines that include investment
limits, guarantees and rules regarding marketing and other business activities. The SIPEN i s in
the process of hiring personnel and its budget will eventually depend on an earmarked industry
charge equivalent to 0.1 percent of quotable wages. The estimated budget for 2003 i s roughly
100million pesos.

This component focuses on five areas where institutional capacity would be needed in the
medium term. Recent events have added to the sense of urgency, however. The SIPEN must
consolidate itself as an institution while simultaneously managing the start-up phase of the new
system under difficult external conditions. The proposed assistance package i s based on five
categories:

(a)     Strategic planning, institutional development, human resource and IT and
implementation: this component encompasses human resource and IT planning as well as the
purchase of the equipment and software that will be required for the supervisor to perform its
work. A strategic plan will be developed with the help of consultants, typically experienced
supervisors in the region and will be an ongoing process during the first two years of
consolidation. Support will also be provided for a continuation o f technical advice.
(b)     Establishment of appropriate technical and regulatory framework for survivor and
disability benefits: there i s no experience with mandatory disability insurance. While the norms
for disability and survivors benefits exist, the institutional apparatus required for efficient
eligibility determination of benefits is yet to be developed. The SIPENplays a major role in this
process in conjunction with regional committees and a national committee where appeals can be
made. Some norms are considered arrangements given the dearth of actuarial tables required for
accurate assessment of pricing and determination o f reserve requirements. The proposed loan
will assist inthe establishment of a framework to overcome these shortcomings.
(c)     Investment policy advice on appropriate regulations and linkages to other capital
market reforms: the legislation specifies only certain asset class limits and leaves detailed
regulation to a `Risk Classification Committee' that includes the Central Bank Governor, the
Superintendent for Pensions and the Securities regulator. The assistance in this area would
include commissioned studies on the interaction between pension fund growth and the
development of capital market instruments that would serve as inputs toward the decision-
making process. The objective is to install a transparent mechanism for determining investment
regulations in a difficult environment where investment options are extremely limited. This
activity will necessarily be coordinated with work going on in other areas o f the project,
especially the securities regulator and the debt management components.
region:Training
(d)                 of supervisory staff including exchange with other supervisors in the
          with little or no experience with a private pension industry, SIPEN staff would benefit
from local training programs and exchange with more experienced supervisors inthe region.
(e)     Creation of database and production of periodic reports in coordination with other
agencies: transparency of the new system requires timely reporting o f key indicators to the
public ranging from annual statistical bulletins to daily valuation reports. This component will
necessitate coordination with the agency responsible for consumer protection and information -



                                                 38

Direccidn de Znformacio'n y Defensa de 10s Asegurados (DIDA), as well as, the Social Security
Treasury and the UNIPAGO, a privately-owned company that has been contracted to maintain
the centraldatabase of affiliates and contributors.

Project Component 6 - US$3.5 million
Payments and Securities Settlement Systems Reform
Cash and cheques are the major means of making payments in the Dominican Republic. The
BCRD operates the cheque clearinghouse and manages the current accounts held by banks and
other institutions which for the most part are accessed through manual procedures. Large
corporate payments, interbank transactions and card and ATM network-derived interbank
obligations as well as other low value payments (e.g. direct debits) are settled through the cheque
clearing system. The cheque clearing process i s semi-automated.

The cheque clearinghouse i s the major funds transfer system in the country, but it fails to comply
with several international standards. The assessment of the main payment systems in the DR in
terms of the CPSS Core Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems has confirmed
that there i s a need for a more sound and efficient payments system in the country. In fact, while
current payment arrangements might have served market needs up to the present time and no
disruptions have occurred in the national payments system, evolving market conditions at both
the domestic and the international level call for a comprehensive reform of the system. On the
domestic side, the financial sector and the economic agents demand more efficient ways to make
payments. To the extent that the economy and the financial markets continue to grow leading to
an increase in the value and volume of transactions, the Central Bank and market participants
will have to be more and more attentive to the management of risks in the system. On the
international side, there i s a growing need for efficient and sound payment systems for
supporting cross-border financial transactions and international trade. In addition, following
worldwide trends, some countries in the Caribbean are moving fast towards the implementation
of a comprehensive payment system reform.

In order to enhance the safety and efficiency of the National Payments System (NPS) and
provide financial institutions with modern instruments for their daily operations, large value and
time critical payment transactions should be processed electronically in a Real Time Gross
Settlement System (RTGS) environment. A full standardization of cheques and clearing
procedures i s desirable as well as an increased automation (i.e. through truncation and/or cheque
imaging) aimedat reducing the costs associated with cheque processing.

Also, the new legal framework (LMF) includes the basis for the development of a payment
system policy and the establishment of the payment system oversight function. However, some
important elements to support payments and securities settlement operations are missing and
should be addressed as a matter of urgency by the BCRD in coordination with other regulators.
Pending legal issues include: a clear definition of settlement finality, the irrevocability of final
settlement, adequate protection o f the systems against the effects o f bankruptcy procedures, the
improvement of the legal basis for custody arrangements (currently, this feature is only
envisaged for the central securities depository but not for other financial institutions), the legal
definition of a rep0 andthe legal recognition of multilateral netting arrangements.




                                                 39

Finally, the BCRD should establish its oversight function over the payments system. To this end,
the BCRD should: 1) establish appropriate organizational arrangements and staffing; 2) ensure
that an adequate degree of participant co-operation exists and i s sufficient to promote and realize
the desired organizational and operational arrangements; 3) verify that individual payment
systems satisfy user needs as well as risk and efficiency requirements through appropriate
interventions both at the development stage and during the on-going system implementation and
operational phases; 4) define and implement appropriate actions should participants not comply
with published rules and regulations (e.g. the application of pre-determined penalties and
sanctions for compliance failures); 5) collect and distribute relevant statistical information to
demonstrate the use being made of each system and the extent to which the systems are
satisfying end-user and other market needs.

This FTALwill support a comprehensive reform of the payments system, including the launch of
safer and more efficient systems and a improved legal and oversight framework, through:

(a)     New RTGS System using SWIFT Y-Copy services: the proposed loan will assist
BCRD and the Financial Industry finalize an agreed comprehensive vision of the future national
payments system from a policy, organizational, technical and operational perspective that
satisfies the business and banking needs of all stakeholders. Inparticular the proposed loan will
assist BCRD acquire a modern RTGS system. The RTGS system will process all large value and
time critical payments transactions including final settlement of clearing balances produced by
all other systems. In addition the RTGS system will provide efficient interfaces with the BCRD
General Ledger System a future Scripless Securities System and in addition will provide
appropriate tools to all participants to manage risk and intraday liquidity.
(b)     New automated Check Clearing System: the automated Check Clearing System will
replace the existing semi-automated system with a cost effective solution based either on
truncation and/or imaging technology.
(c)     Establishment of an appropriate Legal framework and Oversight function: a modern
safe and efficient payments system does not only include implementation of new operational
systems but two essential elements, an adequate legal and regulatory framework and
establishment of the payments system oversight function within the Central Bank. The legal
framework included inthe LMFmust be completed by its corresponding regulation.
(d)     Payments system expert to advice the payment system project team: comprehensive
payments system reforms are very complex and normally are supported by international experts
on the field. A payments system expert will be needed to advice in the pre-procurement and
procurement phase as well as duringthe installation phase.

Project Component 7 US$0.5 million
                         -
Regulatory developmentof the LMF
The LMF, as such, i s not directly applicable in the DR and needs to be further developed by
regulation. The developments include bank resolution and deposit insurance, penalties,
consolidation, capital adequacy, fit-and-proper criteria for banks' managers and directors, loan
classification and provisioning, market risk, credit to related parties, corporate governance and
internal controls, and the like. For the sake o f urgency, the IADBwill use already available funds
to hire consultants for the drafting of those regulations that need to be inplace either to deal with
the current crisis or to comply with IMF's conditionality. The Bank will, thus, focus on (a)


                                                   40

implementation of the rules for market and operational risk; (b) implementation of the
rules for prudential norms; (c) review and adequate the external audit norms for financial
institutions including disclosure of financial statements; (d) consolidated supervision
training; (e) implementation of the foreign exchange rules; (f) implementation of the
contingency fund rules; (8) implementation of the net international reserves management
rules; (h) implementation of new norms for Savings and Loans institutions and; (i)
implementation of the rules of FHA insurance. However, constant communication among the
I F I s will ensure that every piece of regulation complies with Base1standards and does not hinder
the medium term program.

Project Component 8 US$0.99 million
                           -
Debt management and development of fixed incomemarkets
The authorities have recognized that a substantially invigorated effort i s needed to strengthen the
debt management capacity of the central government. A law intended to change the functioning
of the Ministry of Finance i s currently being discussed in the Congress. The current domestic
debt management functions in the DR are mainly concentrated on issues related to budget
execution (specifically the printing o f checks), registration of supplier arrears, recent re-
negotiations of loan terms with the Banco de Resewas, and the discussion on the design of a new
bond, similar to the "Bonos de Ley I O P , which mainly has taken place in congress. A debt
management framework i s currently not in place, and if the proposed law discussed in Congress
i s passed, major changes will be needed. The FTAL will seek to support these urgently needed
major changes.

The second part of this component is intended to provide additional assistance in the
development of the fixed income securities markets beyond what i s available through the
securities markets component. The aim of this part i s mainly on public and Central Bank debt as
well as the development of the money market. Thus, the sub-components include:

(a)       Support for the re-organization of the Ministry of Finance: the Ministry of Finance
will have to undergo major re-organization if the proposed law creating a new organizational
structure in the Ministry of Finance is passed in Congress as expected. This re-organization will
have to be carefully implemented both to conserve needed skills in the ministry and attract new
talent. The proposed loan will support the needed change in management and the re-training of
personnel to allow them to perform new functions.
(b)       Capacity building in the front, back and middle office areas of the Crkdito Pliblico
(CP): creation of a true debt management function inthe ministryof finance - a CrkditoPziblico
(CP) - along the lines of what is considered best practice in the world will require substantial
capacity building in a number of areas including: a) how to approach markets through
competitive mechanisms such as auctions (front office); b) how to design risk management
strategies (middle office); and c) how to efficiently and securely register government debt (back
office). The development of true front, back and middle office capabilities are in any country at
least a medium term effort, and the resources o f this proposed loan will not be sufficient to
support the creation of a fully functioning CP alone. However, the loan will seek to support the
design of a project plan for the development of a CP, including any legal changes that may be
needed.




                                                   41

(c)     Registrationof all types of governmentdebt includingsuppliers credits in arrears:
one o f the current fundamental problems related to debt management in DR i s lack of a
comprehensive registration of all payment obligations o f the central government including
suppliers' credits in arrears. While clearing the arrears i s a long-term goal, the first priority i s to
register and vet outstanding claims. This i s a very time- and resource-consuming task, and the
loan will seek to assist the process, through design of vetting procedures and automation of
processes.
(d)     Strengthened risk management capabilities and support for the definition of a
correspondingdebt issuance strategyin CPas well as the BCRD: this is neededregardless of
whether a new comprehensive law framework i s adapted. The current levels of debt and the high
component of short term debt makes the design and implementation of a debt management
strategy based on cost-risk trade-off methodology an urgent priority for the public sector as a
whole (e.g. for both central government and Central Bank debt). To support this goal, risk
management capabilities are needed in the Ministry of Finance as well as the BCRD.
Furthermore, appropriate supporting risk-management systems are needed. As for the CP
component, developing risk management, or middle office, capabilities will be a medium term
effort. The proposed loan will, however, seek to enable the development of such expertise,
through support for risk courses, funding strategy design, etc.
(e)     Support for money market development: the most straightforward candidates for the
creation of a market with some liquidity are the fixed income products already available in the
DR. An essential element in the development of the fixed income market in the DR is the
strengthening and further development of a money market. This includes the development of a
repo-market based on legally sound master repo-contracts. The proposed loan will support the
development of a fixed income market both through the assistance to the design of appropriate
funding strategies for the Government and the Central Bank, cf. above, the RTGS, and the
general securities markets component. However, special assistance may be provided to support
the development of the fixed income market in general and the money market in particular
through international expertise inrep0 market.

ProjectComponent9 US$2 million
                        -
Contingenciesto dealwith potentialintensificationof bankingcrisis
This component has been set as a safeguard against the risk that the dynamics of the crisis balk
the proper implementation of the program. In case of deepening of the crisis these funds would
be available to hire experts to manage intervened banks in a professional manner to ensure cost
minimization.

ProjectComponent10-US$ 0.1 million
Audit ofFinancialStatements
Hiringof afirmto audit the financial statements of the project.




                                                42

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan



Project Cost By Component                                     usLocal   I     Foreign             Total
                                                                   $milL"U
                                                                        'innU S $million U S $million
1.Strategy to re-capitalize the CentralBank and                    0.06         0.29              0.35
statistics improvement
2. Strengthening of the institutionalcapacity of the               0.29          2.20             2.49
Banking Superintendency (SB)
3. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the              0.12          0.87             0.99
Securities Superintendency (SN)
4. Strengthening of the institutionalcapacity of the               0.19          1.45              1.64
Insurance Superintendency (SS)
5. Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the              0.21          1.28             1.49
Pensions Superintendency (SIPEN)
6. Payments and Securities Settlement Systems                      0.08          3.42             3.5
Reform
7. Regulatory Development of the LMF                                0.1          0.4              0.5
8. Debt management and development of fixed                        0.15          0.84             0.99
income markets
9. Contingencies to deal with potential                             0.45         1.55             2
intensification of banking crisis
10.Financial Statements Audit                                       0.02         0.08             0.1
Total Baseline Cost                                                 1.67        12.38             14.05
 Physical Contingencies
 Price Contingencies                                                                               -
                                   Total Project Costs'             1.67        12.38             14.05
                            Interest during construction
                                           Front-end Fee                         0.12             0.12
                                              UNDPFee               0.37                          0.37
                            Total FinancingRequired                 2.04        12.50             14.54
1Identifiable taxes and duties are US$1.56 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$12.98
million. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 96.3 percent.




                                                     43

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan

The government agencies beneficiaries of this loan will be the Central Bank (Banco Central de
la Repu'blica Dominicana, BCRD), the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas),
the Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia de Buncos, SB), the Superintendency of
Insurance    (Superintendencia   de     Seguros,        SS),  the    Superintendency                     of   Pensions
(Superintendencia de Pensiones, SPEN) and the Superintency of Securities (Superintendencia
de Valores, SS). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established within the BCRD
including one representative from each technical unit. The PCU would work in close
coordination with each of the beneficiary agencies, which would be responsible for the technical
work of their respective components. Due to lack of expertise on WB procurement methods, the
DR authorities will use the services of UNDP as procurement agent, and also as loan
administrator. Implementation arrangements are summarized inthe figure below.


                            ProjectImplementationArrangements




                    SupportUnit                  BCRD                            ]-..I
                                        Coordinator       Procurement
                                                            Officer   4-- __ --
                     LegalUnit                 plus one
                                   -b representative
                                     of eachtechnical                                             ....v
                                                  unit      Financial
                                                          Management     '
                                                                         .....".......'..."...'...'
                                                             Officer




                                     .............                                                    Seer.Estado
                                     ,,...,.....,


                                       TechnicalUnits


The PCU will be in the BCRD, the Unit will be composed by ten members: a Project
Coordinator and full-time support staff (from BCRD) and one representative from each of the
participating agencies. Additionally, a Technical Unit has been created in each participating
agency, composed by three persons. Also, the PCU will count with a Procurement Officer and a
Financial Officer, that will be in charge of administrative tasks, accounting and procurement,
with the assistance of UNDP.To this end, a Cost SharingAgreement will be signed between the
BCRD and the local UNDP office, to be covered with local funds. The PCU will count also with
the support of the BCRD Legal Unit.




                                                      44

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan

A financial management assessment was conducted to assess the capacity of the local UNDP
office to manage the funds granted under the DR Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
(FTAL).

Summary Conclusionof FinancialManagementAssessment. On the basis of the assessment
performed, the financial management team presents the following conclusions:

    1. The UNDP office has an adequate financial management system which meets the
        minimumBank requirements for financial management of the proposed loan.

    2. The flow of funds mechanism from the Bank to UNDP should be finalized by
        negotiationsto ensure adherence to the fiduciary requirements of the World Bank.

    3. The sample Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) to be presented to the Bank on a
        quarterly basis needs to be presented and cleared by the Bank at negotiations.


Audit Arrangements: Annual financial audits will be carried out on the basis of mutually
agreed standard B a n W N D P terms of reference. The original invoices, receipts and other
payment related documents will be maintained at UNDP. The standard annex, that will be part
of the agreement between the government and UNDP, will provide for UNDP to make available
to the auditors the documentation necessary for the performance o f the annual audits.

Under the proposed project, the PCU will be required to present an annual audit for all project
activities four months after each fiscal year end in accordance with the guidelines issued by the
Bank on June 30, 2003. Therefore in the case of this project, the annual audit must be presented
by April 30 of each year that the project is open.

DisbursementArrangements: The proposed loan would be disbursed over an implementation
period of about four years. Loan proceeds will be disbursed to UDNP via the DR Central Bank
as required by Decrees 37 and 40 issued by the Accountant General. UNDP would receive the
disbursedloans funds via transfer from the Central Bank andheld inUS dollar account.

Disbursements would be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursements Handbook (Le., traditional disbursement procedures). The initial disbursement to
UNDP will be based on the forecasted project needs. Subsequent replenishments to the SA will
be made on Statement of Expenditure (SOE) applications,              and when applicable, full
documentation of expenditures incurred.

SpecialAccount. This project will not use a Special Account since the funds will be disbursed
to UNDP.

Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported
by SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review.


                                                45

Reimbursement o f other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting
documentation.

Documents in support of SOEs must be maintainedby the PCU, UNDPor the technical units for
at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the loan
withdrawal was made. Such documents must be available to review by external auditors and
Bank staff.

Flow of Funds

The following procedures describe the expected flow of funds arrangements for the project.

Loan Funds - Loan funds will be disbursed to an account held at the Central Bank, in US
Dollars, by UNDP. Funds from this account can only be disbursed to pay for eligible
expenditures of the project. UNDPmust first receive an authorized request from the PCUbefore
itcan withdraw funds from the account to makepayments.

Counterpart Funds- Counterpart funds will be deposited in a separate account maintained b y the
Central Bank. Funds from this account will be disbursed to UNDP concurrently with the request
for payment of project expenditures.

Reportingand Monitoring

Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) -UNDP will prepare quarterly FMRs to be delivered to
the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter in accordance with the guidelines issued by the
Bank on November 30, 2003. These FMR guidelines have been shared with UNDP and the
PCU.

FinancialManagementAction Plan


Action                         Responsible Entity              Completion Date
                                                                                             ~


FLOW OF FUNDS
1. Finalize flow of funds      UNDP                            Prior to Negotiations
procedures between the
Bank and UNDPthat ensure
compliance with Bank
fiduciary requirements.
AUDIT
ARRANGEMENTS
2. Submit TOR and short        UNDP                            At Negotiations
list of external auditors for
Bank review and clearance.
FINANCIAL
REPORTING
4. Submit acceptable draft     UNDP                            At Negotiations



                                                46

FMRfor Bank review and
clearance.
7. Submit first FMR            I                                45 days after the end of the
                                UNDPPCU                         first complete quarter after
                                                                effectiveness.

                                                                Prior to Negotiations
Manual to the Bank for
review.
10. Submitdraft copy of the     GovernmentPCU                   Prior to Negotiations
agreement between
Government and UNDP for
Bank review.
11. Submit signedcopy of        GovernmenflCU                   Prior to Effectiveness
agreement between
Government and UNDP.

Supervision Plan

Due to the complexity of the project design and inherent country risk, the FMS should be
involved in the initial supervision missions to the project or at least twice a year. Once the
project i s working well under the proposed arrangements, the FM supervision can be reduced to
once a year not including the review of the annual audit report.

Conditions.

a. Negotiations. The following actions are expected to be confirmed prior to negotiations: (i)
submit to the Bank a draft copy of the agreement between UNDP and the Government; (ii)
finalize flow of funds procedures between the Bank and UNDP to ensure that Bank fiduciary
requirements are met; (iii) to the Bank a draft of the Operations Manual; (iv) submit
                             submit
acceptable draft of FMR format; and (v) UNDP to submit the TORS and short list of audit firms
for the annual financial audits by external auditors.

b. Effectiveness. The following actions are expected to be confirmed prior to effectiveness: (i)
submit to the Bank a signed copy of the agreement between UNDP and the Government (ii)
deposit of counterpart funds for the first three months o f implementation inthe project account.




                                                 47

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
         DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan


A) Procurement Arrangements
 Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
 "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
 and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" publishedinJanuary 1997 (revised
 in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.

 1) Procurementmethods: The methods to be usedfor the procurement described below, and
 the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract
 values for the use of each method are fixed inTable B.

 Procurementof Works
 The FTAL i s a Technical Assistance Loan aimed at developing institutional capacity of the
beneficiary institutions, therefore no works will be performed as part of this project.

 Procurementof Goods
 Goods procured under this project would include IT systems (hardware and software) and
 associated technical support for the modernization and strengthening of the institutional
 capacity of the Banking, Securities, Insurance and Pensions Superintendencies. Also, the
 acquisition of RTGS Software and associated technical support, SWIFT Y-Copy Service,
 RGTS Hardware and Communication equipment and automated check clearing system for the
 support of the Payments and Securities Settlement Systems Reform. SWIFT Y Copy Service
 (US$300,000) will be acquired usingdirect contracting as this firm i s the unique provider. The
 goods to be procured as part of this project total US$4.6 million equivalent. To the extend
possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than
 US$250,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
 procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).                 Contracts with
 estimated values below this threshold per contract may be procured using National
 Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the
Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be procured using shopping (National
/International) procedures, comparing price quotations obtained from at least three qualified
 suppliers based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.

 Selectionof Consultants(ConsultantServices and Training)

 Consultants, for consultant services and training, will be contracted under this project in the
following areas of expertise: banking, IT auditing function, risk-focused supervision, securities
market development and promotion, development o f actuarial capacity, human resource
management, pensions strategic planning and institutional development, payments and



                                              48

securities settlement reform, rules for market and operational risk, rules for prudential norms,
external audits norms for financial institutions, exchange rules, contingency funds rules, net
international reserves management rules, among others. These services are estimated to cost
US$7,400,000 (US$4,885,000 consultant services and US$2,5 15,000 training) equivalent and
would be procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals. PCU staff will not be financed
by the Loan

A US$2,000,000 component (of which the Bank will finance US$1,550,000) has been included
in order to deal with a potential intensification of the banking crisis. If triggered, this
component will be used to finance consultant services to manage the intervened banks in a
professional manner to ensure cost minimization.

An amount up to US$500,000 for component 7 (Regulatory Development of the LMF)will be
subject to retroactive financing for consultant and training expenses. In order for these
expenses to be admitted for retroactive financing the Borrower must follow the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures.

Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent that would be procured using QSBS, CQ, or
LCS.

Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. The aggregate amount for individual
consultants i s US$710,000.

2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in
Table B. Inaddition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan and budget
for the PCU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.

B) Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the
BCRD, which will administer project funds. The PCU i s satisfactorily staffed by a Project
Coordinator in the BCRD, and b y one representative from each o f the other participating
agencies. Additionally, a Technical Unit has been created in each participating agency,
composed by three persons. In BCRD the PCU counts with a Procurement Officer and a
Financial Officer, that will be in charge o f administrative tasks, accounting and procurement,
with the assistance of UNDP. To this end, a Cost Sharing Agreement i s under negotiations
between the BCRD and the local UNDP office to act as procurement agent and loan
administrator, to be covered with local funds. The Operations Manual will include, in addition
to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each




                                              49

procurement method, as well as model contracts for goods procured on the basis of three
quotations or shopping.

An assessment of the capacity of the PCUto implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on October 15th,
2003. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed PCU and the
interaction between the project's Procurement Officer and the Financial Management Officer,
as well as with other dependencies of the CB. Additionally, an assessment of UNDP's
procurement capacity was completed as an annex to the PCU's procurement capacity
assessment.

As part of the Action Plan of the PCU capacity assessment, a procurement filing system needs
to be implemented by the PCU and i s expected to comply with the Bank's requirements. The
new system will specify the procurement documents to be filed, the PCU staff who would have
access to the files, and the internal security measures for record-keeping.

The overall project risk for procurement i s AVERAGE.

Although the overall risk assessment resulting from capacity assessment of the PCU was
AVERAGE, the unit has not yet in place a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and
reporting procurement actions. UNDP will assist the PCU with this an other procurement
related tasks. In order to minimize the risk of implementation, the following plan has been
proposed:

      -   Submit to the Bank a draft,copy of the agreement between the Government and the
          UNDP by loan's negotiations. The signed copy of the agreement between the
          Government and the UNDP submitted by loan's effectiveness.
      -   Preparation by the PCU of a detailed procurement plan for the first year of
          implementation. Due by appraisal.
      -   Preparation by the PCU of a draft operations manual with a specific chapter on
         procurement detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of
          documentation. Due for review before negotiations. Final version of operational
         manual approved by the Bank as a condition o f effectiveness.
      -  Establishment of a procurement filing system. Due before negotiations.
      -   Confirmation of the establishment of the permanent PCU and its staff as a condition
          of effectiveness.
      -  Procurement training provided by the Bank to the PCU, by effectiveness.
      -  Preparation by the PCU of draft standard bidding documents for all processes, by
         effectiveness.

C) ProcurementPlan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This
plan was approved by the RPA and i s in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar
year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for
the coming year.


                                                50

     D) FrequencyofProcurementSupervision
     In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
     assessment of the PCU has recommended at least one full supervision mission per year to visit
     the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment
     (AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 10
     contracts signed, and one procurement audit in conjunction with the financial audit o f the
     project shall be performed.




                          Table A: ProjectCostsbyProcurementArrangements
                                            (inUS$ millionequivalent)


       ExpenditureCategory                           ProcurementMethod                             Total Cost
                                              ICB        NCB            Other        N.B.F
 1. Goods




Notes:    ICB = InternationalCompetitiveBidding, NCB = NationalCompetitiveBidding, Other = includes Individual
Consultant (IC), SelectionBasedon Consultant Qualifications (CQ) and Direct Contracting(DC)
N.B.F.= Not Bank-financed(includes elementsprocured under parallelcofinancingprocedures,consultancies under
trust funds, any reservedprocurement,and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Foot-Notes:
      a/ Direct contracting of SWIFT services, uniqueprovider.

      b/ ConsultantsServices. Contracts awardedto firms using CQ, individual consultants in accordancewith
      paragraphs5.1 to 5.3 of the ConsultantsGuidelines and LC.
      c/ Contingencycomponentin case of intensificationof bankingcrisis. Consultingservices competitively
      selected.




                                                          51

                           Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                                 (US$millionequivalent)




Total                      6.0                               0.1        0.6        0.7                   7.4
                         (5.0)    (        1 (        )    (0.1)       (0.4)     (0.6)      (    )      ( 6.2)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
       QBS = Quality-based Selection
       SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
       LCS = Least-Cost Selection
       CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
       Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
       Practices, etc.
       N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.

                Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

                                                               Procurement           Contracts Subject to
            Category              (Threshold)                     Method                 Prior Review /
                                                                                         Estimated Total
                                                                                        Value Subject to
                                                                                          Prior Review
                                 US $ thousands
    1. Works                            NA                               NA                    NA
    2. Goods
                                        >500                        ICB                          All
                                        <500>250                    ICB                        None
                                        <250 >50                    NCB                        None
                                          4 0             Int'l & Nat. Shopping                None
    3. Services
    - Firms                                                         QCBS                         All
                                        <350>100                    QCBS                        TOR
                                                                    Irrespective                TOR
    - Individuals                                                   of method
                                        >loo
                                        <loo                        Comparison                   All
                                                                    of 3cv                      TOR




                                                         52

                          Table C: Allocationof LoanProceeds

   Expenditure Category       Amount US$ million        Financing Percentage
Goods                                 4.6            100%if foreign and 80% if local
Consultants and Training              7.4             85% if foreign and 80% if local
Contingencies                          2              85% if foreign and 80% if local
          Total Project Costs          14
                  UNDP Fee            0.4
                Front-endFee          0.1
                        Total         14.5




      Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment:
                   High

                   Average
                   Low       H




                                          53

         Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan




                   NOT APPLICABLE




                          54

           Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues
DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan




                NOT APPLICABLE




                         55

                        Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistance Loan

                                                Planned                            Actual
PCNreview                                      07/16/2003                        07/16/2003
InitialPID to PIC                              09/30/2003                        09/16/2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                            09/30/2003                        0911612003
Appraisa1                                      10/17/2003                        10120/2003
Negotiations                                   10/27/2003                        12111/2003
Board/RVP approval                             12/18/2003                        02/03/2004
Planned date of effectiveness                  04/01/2004
Planned date of mid-term review                03131/2006
Planned closing date                           12/31/2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: Banco Central de la Rep6blica
Dominicana, Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas, Superintendencia de Bancos, Superintendencia
de Seguros, Superintendencia de Pensiones and, Superintendencia de Valores.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                Unit                                Title
Mario Guadamillas               LCSFF          Sr. Financial Economisflask Team Leader
Fernando Montes-Negret          LCSFF          Sector ManagerKenera1 Guidance and Payment
                                               Systems
Mariluz Cortes                 LCSFF           Lead EconomistEeneralGuidance
Juan Ortiz                      LCSFF          Sr. Financial Sector SpecialistBanking Sector
Ilias Skamnelos                LCSFF           Junior Professional Associate
Robert Keppler                  OPD            Sr. AdviserPayment Systems
Don McIsaac                     OPD            Lead SpecialistDnsurance Sector
Jeppe Ladekarl                  OPD            Sr. Financial SpecialistBecurities Markets and Debt
                                               Management
Robert Palacios                 HDNSP          Sr. Economist/Social Security Reform
Juan Carlos Alvarez            LEGLA           Counsel/Legal Advice
Guido Paolucci                  LCC3C          Sr. Procurement Specialist
Catherine Abreu Rojas           LCC3C          Consultant
Patricia Hoyes                  LCOAA          Financial Management Specialist
JosephFormoso                  LOAG3           Senior Finance OfficerDisbursement
Reviewers:
August0 de la Torre            LCRCE           Sr. Regional Financial Sector Advisor
James Hanson                    OPD            Sr. Financial Policy Adviser




                                             56

                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
          DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan

A. ProjectImplementationPlan
The full project implementation plan i s under preparation. The procurement plan has already
been prepared by each agency and i s on file.
B. BankStaffAssessments
Capacity Assessments for Procurement and FinancialManagement have been conducted and are
on file.
C. Other
Mission Reports
Back-to-Office Report Exploratory Mission-May 2003
Aide-Memoire Exploratory Mission -May 2003
Statement of Mission Objectives Identification Mission-July2003
Back-to-Office Report Identification Mission-July 2003
Presentation to DR Authorities on FTAL Components and Next Steps -July2003
Comments to the Project Concept Note by Reviewers -July2003
Project Concept Note Meeting Minutes -July2003
Quality Enhancement Review MeetingMinutes -September 2003
Comments to the Project Appraisal Document by Reviewers -October 2003
Decision Meeting Minutes -October 2003
Statement of Mission Objectives Appraisal Mission -October 2003
Back-to-Office Report Appraisal Mission.-October 2003
Statement of Mission Objectives Technical Discussions Mission -November 2003
Back-to-Office Report Technical Discussions Mission -November 2003
Minutes of Technical Discussions -November 2003
Request to Upgrade Technical Discussions into Formal Negotiations -December 2003




                                              57

                                       Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                   DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan

                                                                                                                            Differencebetween
                                                                                                                            expectedandactual
                                                              Original Amount inUS$Millions                                    disbursements

Project ID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO76802      2003  DO-HealthReformSupport(APL)               30.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       30.00         0.00        0.00
PO54937      2003  DO-EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION              42.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       41.58          3.22       0.00
                   PROJECT
PO71505      2001  DO-HIV/AIDS Prevention& ControlProj.      25.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       21.87         -3.12       0.00
PO68753      2001  DO- GlobalDistanceLearningNetwork          3.43      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00            1.83     -1.19       0.00
PO59510      2000  DO WASTEWTR DISPOSALINTSM                  5.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00            4.44      4.44       2.30
                   CNTERS (LIL)
PO52736      2000  DO: TELECOM REG. REFORM                   12.30      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00            4.75      4.75       0.00
PO07020      1995  DO IRRIGLAND & WATERSH (SIM)              28.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.30       13.90         14.19       14.19
                                                   Total:  145.73       0.00    0.00      0.00      0.30      118..37       22.29       16.49


                                                    DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillions of USDollars
                                                         As of 11/30/2003


                                                              Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                       IFC
        FY Approval  Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity            Quasi     Partic.

        2004         DomicemS.A.
        2003         BancoBHD                    10.00        0.00       10.00    0.00       10.00      0.00            10.00       0.00
        2002         CII                         30.00        0.00       0.00     0.00      23.80       0.00            0.00        0.00
        2002         ITDOMINICANA                35.00        0.00       15.00   50.00      32.53       0.00            15.00      46.47
        1998         FlamencoBavaro              3.54         0.00       7.70     12.21      3.54       0.00            7.70       12.21
        2000/03      Hospiten                    1.86         0.00       0.00      1.80       1.86      0.00            0.00        1.80
        2000         Rica                        10.00        0.00       3.00     0.00       10.00      0.00             3.00       0.00
        0195         Smith-Enron                 12.07        0.00       3.95     10.61      12.07      0.00             3.95      10.61
                                Totalportfolio:   126.47      0.00      39.65    98.62      83.80       0.00            39.65      71.09




                                                                            ApprovalsPending Commitment
                                                                                                            ~~    ~~

                      FY Approval    Company                            Loan      Equity       Quasi          Partic.
                      2003           ADOPEM                             2.00       1S O         0.00          0.00
                      2004           Grupo M                            20.00      0.00         0.00          0.00

                                          Total pendingcommitment:     22.00       1S O         0.000         0.00




                                                                   58

                                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance
           DOMINICANREPUBLIC: FinancialSector TechnicalAssistanceLoan

                                                                             Latin     Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                           Dominican    America      middle
                                                             Republic    & Carib.      income                             ~



2002                                                                                                Developmentdiamond'
Population, mid-year(millions)                                     8.6         527       2.411
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                2,320      3,280        1,390                     Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                                  20.9       1,727       3,352
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                             T
Population("A)                                                     1.7          1.5        1.o
Labor force (%)                                                    2.4          2.2        1.2      GNI                                    Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                                per                                  primary
Poverty ("1. of population below nationalpoverty line)             29                               capita                             nrollment
Urbanpopulation(Yoof total population)                             67            76         49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                    87           71          69
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                            41           27          30
Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                            5             9        11
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                86           86          81             Access to improvedwater source
Illiteracy(% of population age 1%)                                 16            11         13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)               124          130        111
    Male                                                           126          131        111          -       DominicanRepublic
    Female                                                         122          128        110                  Lower-middle-incomew o w
KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                       1982       1992       2001        2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                       8.0       8.8         21.3       21.4      Economicratios.

Gross domestic investmenffGDP                           20.0      22.6         23.1       23.1
Exports of goods and ServicedGDP                        14.3      26.2         23.9       25.9                          Trade
Gross domesticsavingdGDP                                15.1      10.9         15.2       14.6
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                               14.4      16.7         19.4       19.5                             T


Current account baiancelGDP                             -5.5      -6.6         -3.4        -3.0
Interest paynentdGDP                                     1.6       1.4          1.1         1.3     Domestic                           Investment
Total debffGDP                                          31.6      52.3         23.9       26.6      savings
Total debt servicdexports                               34.5      12.6          8.2       12.0
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                       22.8                                        I
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                   63.9

                                                                                                          -           Indebtedness
                                         1982-92     1992-02      2001       2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowih)
GDP                                          2.8         6.2       2.9          4.1        2.2
GDP per capita                               0.8         4.5       1.2          2.4        0.5             ..
                                                                                                            ___DominicanRepublic
Exportsof goods and services                 9.4         6.6      -6.3         -1.7        4.6                   Lower-middle-incomearouo



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                       1982       1992       2001        2002      IGrowth of Investmentand GDP (%)              I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             17.7      13.6         11.4       11.8
Industry                                                28.6      31.8         33.2       32.7
   Manufacturing                                        18.3      18.9         16.2       16.2
Services                                                53.7      51.6         55.4       55.5

Privateconsumption                                     75.2       86.0         76.8       74.3
Generalgovemmentconsumption                              9.8       3.1          7.9        8.9     I           _I      GDI     -GDP              I
Importsof goods and services                            19.2      37.8         32.1       34.7


                                                     1982-92  1992-02        2001        2002
(average annualgrowih)                                                                              Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                             -0.1       4.1          4.9        2.5     IL
Industry                                                4.9        7.2          0.1        3.7      20
   Manufacturing                                        4.0        4.5         -1.3        4.0
Services                                                2.6        6.4          4.8        4.7      10

Privateconsumption                                      3.8        5.7          2.0        0.7      0

Generalgovemmentconsumption                             -7.1      17.1         14.7       16.4     -101                                         2

Gross domesticinvestment                                 5.1       6.6          5.2       15.4
Imports of goods and services                           10.0       6.3         -7.0        3.0

Note:2002data are preliminaryestimates.
This tablewas produced from the Development Economicscentraldatabase.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamond will
    be incomplete.


                                                                      59

                                                                                                         Dominican Republic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1982     1992         2001    2002
Domestic prices
("A change)
Consumer prices                                   7.5     53.9          8.9     5.2
Implicit GDP deflator                             7.9      8.3          8.4     6.4
Governmentfinance
("A of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                           15.0        16.5    16.7                   1999       2Mx)       2W1
Current budgetbalance                                      8.3          3.9     4.6
Overall surpluddeficit                                     1.2         -1.9    -2.2           -GDP       Deflator    *CPI


TRADE
                                                1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                                Exportand import levels( U S mill.)

Total exports(Merchandise)                               1,105       2,486   2,338   I
                                                                                        - 3
  Raw sugar                                                 96          65
  Raw cocoa                                                 32          38
  Manufactures                                            678         1,691
Total imports(Merchandise)                               2,785       5,937   6,237
  Food                                                      11         356
  Fueland energy                                           507        1,240
  Capital goods                                           497         1,285


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                                                CurrentAccount Balanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods andservices                     1,142    2,354       5,485   5,183   I
Importsof goodsand services                     1,535    3,401       7,232   7,521
Resourcebalance                                  -393   -1,048       -1,747  -2,338

Net income                                       -254     -432       -1,119  -1,209
Net currenttransfers                             205       898       2,114   2,330

Current account balance                          -442    -582         -752    -807

Financingitems (net)                             295       608        1,271    282
Changes in net reserves                           147      -26        -519     584

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                       490        1,341    632
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  1.o     12.8         16.9    18.6

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                                         Composition of 2001 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed             2,521    4,613        5,093   5,693
  IBRD                                            116      255          317     350                          317
  IDA                                             22        19           13      13                                  13

Total debt service                               396       346          621     914
  IBRD                                             10       44           46     46
  IDA                                               0        1            1       1

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                   9       23           44       0
  Official creditors                             288        -9          -55   -84.9
  Privatecreditors                                -12      -19          530     463
  Foreigndirect investment                         -1      180        1,079     961
  Porlfolio equity                                  0        0          113      10


World Bank program
  Commitments                                     25        79           25      42   A . IBRD                              E Bilateral
                                                                                                                              ~




  Disbursements                                   25        35           49      57   B - IDA    D - Other multiiateral     F- Private
  Principalrepayments                              2        25           24      24   C IMF.                                G Short-term
                                                                                                                               .
  Net flows                                       23        10           25      33
  interestpayments                                 8        19           23      22
  Net transfers                                    14      -10            2      11


Note:This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.




                                                                  60

MAP SECTION


