Page  1
1 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB374 
Project Name 
Dominican Republic Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Banking (60%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings 
(40%) 
Project ID 
P078838 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana 
Apartado Postal No. 1347 
Tel: 809-221-9111 Ext. 3135/3136  Fax: 809-686-0989 
http://www.bancentral.gov.do 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 6, 2003 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 14, 2003 
Date of Board Approval 
December 18, 2003 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Dominican Republic (DR) was the fastest growing economy in Latin America, with real GDP growth averaging 
almost 8 percent per year from 1996 to 2000.  During this period, the DR maintained relatively low rates of inflation 
averaging 7 percent per year with a stable exchange rate and a low total public sector debt. However, real GDP 
growth sharply decelerated to 2.9 percent in 2001, 4.1 percent in 2002, and it is expected to contract 3 percent in 
2003. CPI inflation increased to 10.5 percent in 2002 and it is expected to reach at least 35 percent in 2003. In the 
last two years the exchange rate more than doubled from about RD$17 per dollar by end 2001 to about RD$35 per 
dollar at mid-2003. This deterioration is a result of external shocks suffered by the economy (higher oil prices, lower 
tourist revenues and increasing debt service), and several bank failures (especially, Baninter) which have triggered a 
broader crisis of confidence in the financial sector. Economic deterioration has been accompanied by a sharp 
increase in public debt from 23.9 percent of GDP in 2001 to an estimated 47.9 percent by end 2003. The jump in 
public debt reflects the combined effects of the increase in the domestic debt of the Central Bank to pay the 
depositors of Baninter, the placement of two large bond issues in international capital markets (US$1.1 billion), and 
the sharp depreciation of the peso against the dollar. 
The initial policy choices, relaxation of the stance of fiscal and monetary policies and exchange rate intervention, 
combined with the troubled bank’s depositors bail-out, have resulted in a sharp loss of reserves and strong pressures 
on the peso. Net international reserves reached historically low levels, US$360 million at end April 2003, due to 
capital flight and attempts to stop currency depreciation. 
Current government efforts aim at restoring macroeconomic stability, ensuring debt sustainability and resumption of 
strong economic growth. The combined public sector deficit (including the quasi-fiscal losses of the Central Bank) 
rose to 2.6 percent of GDP in 2002 and could reach more than 4 percent of GDP in 2003 if no measures are taken. 
The DR authorities reached a stand-by agreement with the IMF in August 2003. The IMF stand-by agreement aims 
at containing the public sector deficit to less than 3 percent in 2003, to 2 percent in 2004 and less than 1 percent in 
2005.  
2. Objectives 
The higher level objective of the proposed FTAL is to reduce the probability of future financial sector crises and to 
mitigate the negative impact of the current crisis on poverty levels and income distribution. The FTAL will 
accomplish this goal through technical assistance to develop institutional capacity and improve the financial 
Page  2
2 
infrastructure and legal framework. The FTAL is consistent with the objectives of the proposed Country Assistance 
Strategy Progress Report 2003 of modernizing the State and improving governance, restore confidence and facilitate 
the resumption of economic growth and poverty reduction. 
The first project development objective (PDO) will consist of strengthening the institutional capacity of the 
monetary authorities to improve the design and implementation of monetary and fiscal policies. The FTAL will 
achieve this objective by helping the Central Bank to define a strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank in view of 
the large quasi-fiscal deficit it is incurring as a result of the banking crisis management; by developing the monetary 
and financial regulations to be issued by the Monetary Board required by the recently approved LMF and; by 
helping the Ministry of Finance to implement an efficient debt management strategy. 
 
The second PDO will consist of strengthening the institutional capacity of the financial regulatory agencies to 
reduce risks and increase efficiency, transparency and accountability of financial activities. The FTAL will achieve 
this objective by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Banking, Securities, Insurance and Pension 
Superintendencies, with particular emphasis in the institutional development of the Superintendency of Banks and; 
by modernizing the financial infrastructure, particularly the country’s payments and securities settlement systems. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Assistance from the international financial community is needed in helping the DR authorities’ efforts to restore 
macroeconomic stability. The international financial institutions
1
 (IFIs) have followed a coordinated approach to 
engage the authorities in the crisis management. The IFIs agreed on the need to provide significant technical 
assistance to the DR in order to be able to efficiently absorb and use the resources devoted to deal with the 
underlying causes of the crisis.  
The technical assistance program was discussed among the IFIs and two phases were identified. The first phase will 
deal with the most urgent needs to enable the implementation of the agreements reached with the IMF. Particularly, 
it will include (i) a plan of internationally assisted on-site inspections for the entire banking system
2
 to identify any 
existing inappropriate practices and to restore confidence in the system and; (ii) the drafting of the most urgent 
regulations (identified in a IMF-WB technical assistance mission, that took place from June 10th to 20
th
, 2003) of 
the Monetary and Financial Law, that was approved in 2003. The IMF and IADB will provide the financial 
resources to undertake this first phase. The Bank will follow-up and contribute to this first phase. The second phase 
will support the strengthening of the institutional and financial infrastructure in the medium term through the 
proposed FTAL. It was agreed that the three institutions would continue to coordinate closely their TA programs. 
4. Description 
The proposed FTAL would address key weaknesses identified in the FSAP and will provide 
assistance to help the Central Bank to manage the banking crisis, focusing on: analyzing the 
dynamics of the Central Bank’s balance sheet as the base for defining an strategy for the re-
capitalization of the Central Bank; developing the institutional capacity of all the supervisory 
agencies, with particular emphasis in the institutional development of the Superintendency of 
Banks; modernizing the financial infrastructure, particularly the country’s payments and 
securities settlement systems; developing the monetary and financial regulations to be issued by 
the Monetary Board under the recently approved LMF; and implementing an efficient debt 
management strategy and accompanying primary and secondary market development plan for 
fixed income securities. 
The components are as follows: 
 
1. 
Strategy to re-capitalize the Central Bank and statistics improvement. 
                                                          
 
1
 The IMF, the IADB and the World Bank. 
2
 The specific actions considered were: (i) hiring of an international firm to coordinate operational aspects of the 
assisted inspections; and (ii) the hiring of auditors and experts to perform the inspections in collaboration with staff 
from the Superintendency of Banks (SB). 
Page  3
3 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Banking Superintendency (SB).  
3. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Securities Superintendency (SV).  
4. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Insurance Superintendency (SS).  
5. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Pensions Superintendency (SIPEN).  
6. 
Design of a comprehensive payments and securities clearance and settlement system reform strategy.  
7. 
Regulatory development of the LMF. 
8. 
Design and implementation of an efficient framework for debt management and related fixed income 
market development plan. 
9. 
Contingencies that could occur from an intensification of the banking crisis. 
10.  Financial Statements Audit.  
 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
2 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
12.5 
 
Total 14.5 
 
6. Implementation 
The government agencies beneficiaries of this loan will be the Central Bank (
Banco Central de la República 
Dominicana
, BCRD), the Ministry of Finance (
Secretaría de Estado de Finanzas
), the Superintendency of Banks 
(
Superintendencia de Bancos
, SB), the Superintendency of Insurance (
Superintendencia de Seguros,
 SS), the 
Superintendency of Pensions (
Superintendencia de Pensiones,
 SIPEN) and the Superintendency of Securities 
(
Superintendencia de Valores,
 SV). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU, 
Unidad
 
Ejecutora
) has been established in 
the BCRD including one representative from each technical unit, six in total as the BCRD is coordinator and also 
responsible of one technical unit. The PCU would work in close coordination with each of the beneficiary agencies, 
which would be responsible for the technical work of their respective components. Procurement and Financial 
Management will be within the BCRD’s PCU. 
 
7. Sustainability 
The management of the banking crisis and reforms in the financial sector are being supported by the IFIs. The FTAL 
has been designed to support the implementation of the IFIs’ assistance program. Past efforts by the DR authorities 
to improve the regulatory and supervisory framework in the financial sector have clearly not yielded the expected 
results. Lack of integration of the different projects and lack of continuity of the human resources involved in 
previous capacity building efforts are the main reasons for these negative results. In addition, the FTAL faces the 
important risk of the banking crisis intensification. Should this happen the DR authorities attention will deviate to 
the short term urgencies. 
The assistance program designed and coordinated by the IFIs already took this risk into account, 
dividing the responsibilities. Thus, short-term technical assistance is being provided by the IMF 
and IADB, with the World Bank participating in the dialogue, and focusing on medium-term 
reforms for the financial sector through this FTAL. In addition, the design of this FTAL is taking 
into account a potential banking crisis intensification with a contingency component should this 
happen. This would facilitate any additional efforts by the IFIs to help DR authorities to manage 
the crisis, diminishing the deviation of current resources to the crisis management, an thus, 
reducing the impact on medium-term financial sector reforms. 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The lessons included below come from similar financial sector operations in other countries in 
Latin American as well as from the operational experience of the Bank with DR. Those lessons 
have been taken into account for the design of this FTAL as well as implementation 
Page  4
4 
arrangements. A first lesson is the importance of a flexible design adapted to the borrower’s 
needs and priorities that can emerge in the implementation process, especially in the case of DR 
that is going through a major banking crisis. A second lesson indicates that the approval of new 
financial sector laws (LMF in DR) must be accompanied by the enactment of specific regulation 
and strengthening of the government agencies in charge of its implementation in order to be 
effective. A third lesson is the need to integrate the components of the project as important 
isolated efforts in the past, from other agencies, had a minor impact on financial sector 
improvement. A fourth lesson is that any effort of capacity building must be permanent. The 
high level of staff rotation made previous efforts unsuccessful.     
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
a. 
Which safeguard policies are triggered by this project? 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
b.  What is the safeguard screening category of the project? (S1, S2, S3, SF)  
S3
 
 
10. Contact point 
Contact: Mario Guadamillas 
Title: Sr Financial Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0344 
Fax:  
Email: Mguadamillas@worldbank.org 
 
11.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
