                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003069



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-76880, IBRD-78370)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$493.425 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                        STATE OF SÃO PAULO (BRAZIL)

                                      FOR A

                 SÃO PAULO STATE FEEDER ROADS PROJECT



                                December 23, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2015)

                   Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)

                           R$3.88 = US$1
                          US$0.26 = R$1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    –    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF       Additional Financing
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CETESB   State’s Company for Technology in Environmental Sanitation
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DER-SP   State Road Administration
DNIT     Transport Infrastructure National Department
DO       Development Objective
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
FUNAI    Brazil’s National Indian Foundation
GDP      gross domestic product
HDM      Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IP       Implementation Progress
IRI      International Roughness Index
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
MICs     middle-income countries
NPV      net present value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDLT     State Logistics and Transportation Development Plan
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMS      Pavement Management System
PPA      Multi-Year Plan
PPP      Public Private Partnership
ROW      right of way
R$       Brazilian Real
SEP      Secretariat of Economy and Planning (later becoming SPDR)
SIAFIM   Integrated Financial Administration System
SIL      Sector Investment Loan
SLDP     State Logistics Development Plan
SLT      State Secretariat of Logistics and Transport
SMA      State Environment Secretariat
SPDR     State Secretariat of Planning and Regional Development
ST       State Transport Secretariat (later becoming SLT)
TA       technical assistance
ToR      terms of reference
UN       United Nations
US$      US dollar




                        Vice President: Jorge Familiar
       Senior Global Practice Director: Pierre Guislain
                     Country Director: Martin Raiser
                     Practice Manager: Aurelio Menéndez
                 Project Team Leader: Satoshi Ogita
                    ICR Team Leader: Satoshi Ogita
                                     BRAZIL
                      SÃO PAULO STATE FEEDER ROADS PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
  MAP
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Sao Paulo Feeder
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:
                                                                          Roads Project
                                                                          IBRD-76880, IBRD-
Project ID:             P106663                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          78370
ICR Date:               12/23/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          STATE OF SAO
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAULO
Original Total
                        US$166.65 million       Disbursed Amount:         US$493.425 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$493.425 million
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de São Paulo (DER-SP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/27/2007     Effectiveness:                               10/28/2009
                                                                                  10/03/2010
Appraisal:            04/29/2008     Restructuring(s):                            01/31/2013
                                                                                  06/30/2014
Approval:             07/09/2009     Mid-term Review:           09/30/2011        03/30/2011
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2014        06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating (by ICR)
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                 Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                      Quality at Entry
Project at any time          No                                                 None
                                                      (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                 100                    100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural services and infrastructure                                         100                   100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                            At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Jorge Familiar                        Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Martin Raiser                         John Briscoe
Practice
                             Aurelio Menendez                      Jose Luis Irigoyen
Manager/Manager:
                                                                   Aymeric-Albin Meyer /Eric R.
Project Team Leader:         Satoshi Ogita
                                                                   Lancelot
ICR Team Leader:             Satoshi Ogita
ICR Primary Author:          Mirtha Pokorny


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve the efficiency of the paved municipal road
network (according to the loan agreement).

The PDO paragraph in the PAD also included the following description: “Efficiency will
be improved as a result of improvements to the institutional framework used by the
Borrower in four key areas to deliver adequate transport conditions to users (planning,
environmental licensing, participation of private sector, and execution), combined with
improvements in the condition of the paved municipal road network.”

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years
                  Cumulated reduction of economic costs to users on municipal road network
Indicator 1 :
                  (Percentage)
Value
quantitative or   0.00%                     5.70%                             7.70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/08/2009                06/30/2015                         06/20/2015
Comments          135% achieved. The results of the economic evaluation demonstrated that the
(incl. %          cumulated reduction in the road user costs on the municipal roads under the Pro-
achievement)      Vicinais Program between 2011 and 2014 is 7.7%.

Indicator 2 :     Satisfaction of road users on paved municipal road network (percentage)
Value
quantitative or Not applicable            75%                                91%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             06/30/2015                         06/30/2015
Comments        121% achieved. These results are based on the interview surveys in 2015 with
(incl. %        road users of the paved municipal roads rehabilitated in Phases 3 and 4 under the
achievement) Pro-Vicinais Program financed by this project and the Borrower.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Evolution of condition of municipal paved road network
                                         83% with                             97.6% with IRI less
                3,025 km with IRI less
Value                                    IRI less than 3.5                    than 3.5 (good) and
                than 3.5 (good) and
(quantitative                            (good)                               0.4% with
                7,115 with IRI more than
or Qualitative)                          and 7% with IRI                      IRI more than 5
                5 (bad)
                                         more than 5 (bad)                    (bad)
Date achieved 06/08/2009                 06/30/2015                           06/11/2015
                  118% achieved. These results are based on the road surface condition survey in
Comments
                  2015 on the sampled municipal road sections under the Program. When IRI less
(incl. %
                  than 3.5, road is considered in good conditions. When IRI more than 5, road is in
achievement)
                  bad.
                  Annual decrease of turn-around time for evaluation of environmental
Indicator 2 :
                  licensing requests
Value
(quantitative     0% (240 days)             30.00%                             50.00%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/08/2009                06/30/2014                         12/31/2014
Comments
                  135% achieved. In 2014, the turn-around time for evaluation of environmental
(incl. %
                  licensing requests for medium and small projects was 120 days, 50% less than
achievement)
                  the baseline value of 240 days. See the details in Section 3.2 and Annex 2.
Indicator 3 :     Private/external capital mobilized for financing state investment programs
Value
(quantitative     R$11.6 billion            R$19.0 billion                     R$25.6 billion
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/08/2009                   06/30/2013                       06/22/2015
Comments          Target met. The private and external investments toward the state’s projects in
(incl. %          2011-2014 was R$25.6 billion in total, including metro, highway, and energy
achievement)      projects. This indicator is influenced by many factors (see Section 2.3).

                  Agenda agreed of public and private sector actions to reduce logistics
Indicator 4 :
                  bottlenecks
Value
(quantitative     N/A                       Agenda agreed                      Agenda agreed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/08/2009                  06/30/2014                        06/11/2015
Comments          Target met. The secretariat of logistics and transport prepared and agreed on the
(incl. %          agenda of the state logistics development plan along the Tiete river involving
achievement)      both public and private sectors.

                  Increase of engineering designs bid for road rehabilitation investments
Indicator 5 :
                  identified as priority by the pavement management system (PMS)
Value
                                                                            PMS partially
(quantitative   0.00                     70.00
                                                                            developed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/08/2009                 06/30/2014                         06/11/2015
                Target partially met. The project developed the road inventory database and
Comments        road geo-reference system, both of which consist of the important parts of the
(incl. %        PMS. The development of PMS is still ongoing at ICR and has not been in
achievement) operation yet.

                  Number of road km rehabilitated as part of Pro-Vicinais Program
Indicator 6 :
                  (Kilometers)
Value
                  2,117.00                  11,900.00                          11,968.00
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/08/2009                06/30/2014                        06/11/2015
Comments          101% achieved. The Pro-Vicinais Program rehabilitated 11,968 km of the state
(incl. %          paved roads, out of which the project financed 3,300 km. See the details in
achievement)      Section 3.2.

                  Average percentage delay in civil works contracts concluded during a given
Indicator 7 :
                  year under the Pro-Vicinais program
Value
(quantitative   35%                       18%                                Dropped
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/08/2009                  06/30/2014                         06/30/2014
                This indicator was replaced by Indicator 6 above because the work contract
Comments
                duration was short, and any event (such as a long wet season) could alter the
(incl. %
                required work period, but which has no relation to the performance of DER-SP.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (US$ million)
  1     08/28/2009            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/15/2010            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  139.32
  3     02/09/2011            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  297.40
  4     06/28/2011            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  412.59
  5     01/16/2012            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  462.96
  6     08/13/2012            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  472.93
  7     03/22/2013            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  485.71
  8     11/25/2013            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  487.74
  9     04/05/2014            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  488.74
 10     10/27/2014            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  489.02
 11     06/24/2015            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  489.02


H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at    Amount
                     Board
Restructuring                Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                    Approved
   Date(s)                                  Restructuring        Key Changes Made
                   PDO Change DO      IP
                                            in US$ million
                                                           This Additional Financing (AF)
                                                           was approved for a
   08/03/2010          N       S       S         153.75    US$326.775 million loan for
                                                           the Project’s physical
                                                           component to scale-up
                          ISR Ratings at    Amount
                  Board
Restructuring             Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved
   Date(s)                               Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                PDO Change DO      IP
                                         in US$ million
                                                        Bank support to the program
                                                        and to cover cost overruns.
                                                        Bank support for project scale-
                                                        up resulted from the impact of
                                                        the global crisis which had
                                                        affected the State’s capacity to
                                                        contribute to the financing of
                                                        the program. The PDO and the
                                                        targets remained unchanged.
                                                        The restructuring was meant to
                                                        optimize the use of the proceeds
                                                        of the parent loan by
                                                        distributing the unallocated
                                                        amount between component (1)
                                                        in support of the State program
                                                        of rehabilitation of municipal
 01/31/2013         N       S       S         473.68    paved roads, (US$6,084,375),
                                                        and component (2), in support
                                                        of institutional strengthening
                                                        activities, primarily to one of
                                                        the Beneficiary entities, the
                                                        State Secretariat of Transport,
                                                        (US$3,149,000). The PDO and
                                                        the targets did not change.
                                                        The restructuring was made to
                                                        extend the project closing date
                                                        from June 2014 to June 2015 to
                                                        allow substantial completion of
 06/30/2014         N       S       S         489.02
                                                        several key institutional
                                                        strengthening activities which
                                                        had been delayed. The PDO and
                                                        the targets did not change.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
General characteristics. The state of Sao Paulo is a major economic center of not only
Brazil but also of its region, with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) larger than Argentina
or Chile, and topped in Latin America only by Brazil and Mexico. Although its economic
growth had been historically higher than the national average of Brazil, during the 1990s
its share of the national gross production shrank from 39 percent of the GDP in 1985 to 35
percent in 2006. The state identified the need to foster growth, especially after investments
were curtailed during the fiscal adjustment period of the mid - 1990's to early 2005.

In 2007, as a result of renewed growth, a positive outlook for the economy, and a regained
fiscal space, the administration decided to increase the level of investments during the
2008-2011 period by a 2.4 factor (relative to 2003-2007), with a 45 percent share expected
to be financed by the private sector. Out of the R$60 billion in investment that occurred
over the subsequent four years, nearly R$40 billion were allocated to the transport sector.
In addition, the state launched an important institutional capacity-building effort which
aimed to promote a professional, efficient, and modern administration, open to citizen
control and participation.

Sector context. The state government focused on its regional development agenda with
special emphasis on the areas of logistics and transport. The state’s transport strategy, as
described in the state’s multi-year development plan (PPA) 2008-2011 and the master plan
of transport development (PDLT), aimed at reduction of transport costs through
rehabilitation of paved municipal roads under the state's municipal paved roads
rehabilitation program (the Pro-Vicinais), the development of the main road arteries
(rehabilitation and expansion of state roads), a reduction of logistics bottlenecks to support
exports (implementation of export corridors), and a gradual rebalancing of the transport
matrix.

The Pro-Vicinais Program was launched in 2007 and aimed at rehabilitating all
deteriorated paved municipal feeder roads in the state, a network of roads covering an
overall extension of 12,800 km at an estimated cost of US$1.8 billion. These paved feeder
roads constitute the backbone of the road networks in the 645 municipalities in the state,
and provide key access between the state’s main transport corridors. Given the limited
financial and technical capacity of most municipalities, the state has been financing the
progressive paving of these roads and managing their maintenance for the past 30 years.
In spite of these efforts, by the mid 2000’s, the condition of the roads had deteriorated to
the point where over 60 percent of the roads were in poor condition. This situation
prompted the Sao Paulo government to launch this program, which was designed to
substantially improve the condition of the municipal paved roads.

In the area of public sector management, the Secretariat of Economy and Planning (SEP,
later renamed SPDR) focused on consolidating its capacity to: (i) implement result-based
management principles in the government business processes, especially in its multi-year


                                              1
planning tool; (ii) manage efficiently the state planning and budget needs; and (iii) support
the development and implementation of new partnerships with the private sector (PPP) as
well as with multilateral agencies. In the area of environmental protection, the Secretariat
of Environment (SMA) worked on the modernization of the state's environmental
management system to improve efficiency in analyzing impacts, licensing economic
activities, managing and monitoring environmental quality, and protecting and
rehabilitating biodiversity. Public sector management improvements were also being made
in the Secretariat of Transport (ST, later renamed SLT) by further developing the state's
strategic transport plan, improving the state's capacity in structuring and regulating public-
private partnerships, and planning and executing public investment programs.

Rationale for Bank involvement. The project supported the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) 2008-2011 on the public sector management element of the macro foundation and
on the competiveness pillar. Also, the project focused at the sub-national level - in a state
led by a highly motivated governor - on a program which was of high priority, had political
support, and which the CPS specifically recommended to target.

The Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project was designed to assist the state in implementing the
third phase of the Pro-Vicinais program. (See Map 1.1) At the time of appraisal, work under
the Pro-Vicinais Program's first phase (2,100 km financed by the Borrower at a total cost
of US$175 million) was nearing completion, work under the second phase (2,550 km at a
cost of US$117 million financed by the Borrower and with a US$180 million loan from
the Inter-American Development Bank) was ongoing, and under the third phase, bidding
of civil works (3,100 km) was underway and was to be supported by the project. In addition,
the state was structuring a fourth phase of the program, covering an additional 4,200 km of
municipal roads with the objective of undertaking a significant part of these civil works in
2010 (See Map 1.2). At the time of appraisal, the state indicated that it had already
requested Federal Government authorization for another Bank loan of US$395 million to
finance services and works under the third and fourth phases and was expecting to soon
receive the Federal Government's formal authorization to prepare to receive various new
loans.

In addition to the support of the Pro-Vicinais program, extensive consultations between the
Bank and the state of Sao Paulo led to the latter’s request to also include in the project the
assistance of the Bank in improving public administration efficiency in planning and
managing infrastructure programs, specifically: (i) improving public administration
efficiency in planning and managing large infrastructure programs; (ii) modernizing
environmental aspects of investment; and (iii) consolidating the state’s capacity in
attracting private sector participation in infrastructure.1



1
  In early 2008, the State of Sao Paulo and the Bank agreed to process six operations in the urban transport,
road transport, water sector, and rural development areas. In addition to these discrete lending operations the
state requested technical assistance from the Bank for (i) planning and managing large infrastructure
programs; (ii) attracting private sector participation in infrastructure; and (iii) environmental licensing. While



                                                        2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project development objective (PDO), as stated in the Loan Agreement, is “to improve
the efficiency of the Borrower’s paved municipal road network”.

The PDO paragraph in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) also included a description
to define the efficiency mentioned in the above PDO: “Efficiency will be improved as a
result of improvements to the institutional framework used by the Borrower in four key
areas to deliver adequate transport conditions to users (planning, environmental licensing,
participation of private sector, and execution), combined with improvements in the
condition of the paved municipal road network”.

The key indicators were reduction of economic costs to users on the paved
municipal road network, and satisfaction of users of the paved municipal road network.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
with reasons and justification

Not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Road users and road transport services on the municipal roads under the Pro-Vicinais
Program directly benefit from the civil works component of the project through decreased
transport costs. More specifically, the improved condition of local roads promoted rural
communities in enhancing their accessibility to health services, education, and markets.
Furthermore, the entire Sao Paulo state and even the country as a whole was expected to
see indirect benefits from the project’s positive impact on the capillarity of the road
network and on the resulting competitiveness, employment, and economic growth. Finally,
the technical assistance component, while initially benefitting the recipient entities, was
also expected in the longer run to have a wide impact on the entire population through
improved public sector management, reduced logistics costs, and more efficient
environmental management.




such technical assistance could have been provided under any of the six operations, it was agreed that it
would be best suited as a complement to this project (PAD, pg. 7). This was considered reasonable since all
of the technical assistances were related to municipal roads directly or indirectly.



                                                    3
1.5 Original Components

The original project components, as described in the Loan Agreement, were as follows:

Component 1: Feeder Roads Rehabilitation (at an estimated cost of US$477.04, of
which US$154.65 million was to be financed by the loan)
(a) Carrying out of rehabilitation works on approximately 100 km of the Borrower’s paved
road sections, and 1,500 km of particular sections of the Borrower’s municipal paved road
network that have been identified as eligible road sections under the 3 first phases of the
Pro-Vicinais Program including, inter alia: (i) rehabilitation of existing road bases and
surfaces, as well as of bridges; (ii) rehabilitation and/or surfacing of shoulders to protect
the shoulders’ surfaces from erosion and improve the driving conditions; (iii) upgrading of
drainage systems and signalization; and (iv) road safety improvements, including localized
curve realignments and critical spots elimination.

 (b) Consolidating DER-SP’s capacity to manage its road investment programs, including
the Pro-Vicinais Program.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening (at an estimated cost of US$23.80 million, of
which 12 million was to be financed by the loan)
(a) Strengthening of SEP’s institutional capacity to manage the State Investments Program,
through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for, inter alia: (i) the
structuring and initial operation of a monitoring and evaluation system of the State
Investments Program; (ii) the definition of a methodology to identify and prioritize projects
potentially attractive to the private sector; (iii) the preparation and structuring of projects
with private sector participation; (iv) carrying out of improvements to SEP’s capacity in
obtaining external financing (including from multilateral agencies); and (v) the elaboration
of a strategy for communication with key stakeholders under the State Investments
Program, including federal and municipal governments, private sector and civil society.

(b) Strengthening of SMA’s and CETESB’s institutional capacity to support the
modernization of the Borrower’s environmental management system, through the
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for, inter alia: (i) the definition
and implementation of the structure of the Borrower’s unified environmental management
organizational structure and related processes; and (ii) the integration, modernization and
expansion of related information management systems, including geo-referenced
monitoring.

(c) Strengthening of ST’s institutional and planning capacity to support the Borrower’s
transport sector, through the provision of technical assistance for, inter alia: (i) the carrying
out of a study of transport demand for general cargo, including elaboration of the study’s
methodology and surveys with research on specific logistics chains; (ii) the identification
and selection of public and private sector actions on the demand side to motivate an
optimized use of existing transport infrastructure and services; and (iii) the structuring of a
methodology to assess economic and social impacts of road investment programs.




                                               4
(d) Strengthening of DER-SP’s institutional capacity to support the Borrower’s road sector,
through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for, inter alia: (i)
consolidating DER-SP’s pavement management system, structuring a bridge management
system and monitoring road conditions and traffic level data; (ii) increasing the technical
capacity of DER-SP staff; (iii) structuring of traffic monitoring systems; (iv) managing and
monitoring environmental and social impacts of road investment programs, and providing
technical support to municipalities in environmental management and monitoring of civil
works; and (v) supporting municipalities in defining and implementing mechanisms for
sustainable maintenance of municipal networks.

1.6 Revised Components

In mid-2010, the state requested and the Bank agreed to an Additional Financing (AF)
Loan (Loan 7837-BR) in the amount of US$326.775 million to finance the rehabilitation
of 1,200 km out of 3,300 km in Phase 4 of the Program. In addition, the AF loan included
funds for 700 km in Phase 3, which was originally planned to be financed by the parent
loan but which could not be covered due to cost overruns. The cost overruns were mainly
caused by: (a) an unfavorable exchange rate during the first year of project
implementation; and (b) increased work due to the application of heavier than originally
estimated solutions as a result of the improved engineering standard developed under the
project to increase the sustainability of the municipal road assets. Accordingly, the
extension financed by the parent project decreased from 1,500 km to 800 km. With the
AF, the total project support was to reach 2,700 km or 23 percent of the program, against
the adjusted 8 percent under the Parent Project. The AF was approved by Bank
management on August 3, 2010.

The AF component as described in the Project Paper was as follows:

Anticipated cost overruns and scale-up and of the Project’s Feeder Roads civil works
component (estimated cost US$408.78 million, of which US$326.775 million financed by
the loan)

Part 1 (a): Feeder Roads Rehabilitation Works
(i) Financing of anticipated cost overrun of works to be financed under the Original
Project covering approximately 700km of eligible road sections;
and
(ii) Carrying out of rehabilitation works on approximately 1,200 km of additional specific
sections of the Borrower’s municipal paved road network not included in the Original
Project, that have been identified as eligible road sections under the 4 first phases of the
Pro-Vicinais Program including, inter alia: (A) rehabilitation of existing road bases and
surfaces, as well as of bridges; (B) rehabilitation of shoulders to protect the shoulders’
surfaces from erosion and improve the driving conditions; (C) road safety improvements,
including horizontal traffic signaling; and (D) rehabilitation and upgrading of drainage
systems.




                                             5
Part I (b). Project Management
Consolidating DER-SP’s capacity to manage its road investment programs, including the
Pro-Vicinais Program.

1.7 Other significant changes

In addition to the AF mentioned above, the project was restructured twice, in 2013 and
2014.

The restructuring in 2013 was meant to optimize the use of the proceeds of the parent loan
by distributing unallocated amounts to both Component 1 and Component 2, as follows: to
support the Component 1 State program of rehabilitation of municipal paved roads,
US$6,084,375 were reallocated to Component 1, and to support the Component 2
institutional strengthening activities, primarily to one of the Beneficiary entities, the State
Secretariat of Logistics and Transport, US$3,149,000 were reallocated to Component 2. In
addition to the reallocation, the indicator on the average percentage delay in the execution
of civil works contracts was eventually considered not the most appropriate indicator to
measure the intermediate outcome2 and was replaced under the AF by one of the Bank
Core Indicators, namely the number of km of municipal roads rehabilitated under the
program.

The restructuring in 2014 extended the closing date of the parent project from June 2014
to June 2015 to allow substantial completion of several key institutional strengthening
activities that had been delayed, as explained in Section 2.2 below. The AF loan closed as
planned on June 30, 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

A number of important factors in the project preparation, design and quality at entry
affected the implementation and outcomes of the project as follows:

The project design was built directly on Brazil’s and the state of Sao Paulo’s priorities.
The 2008-2011 World Bank Group Country Partnership Strategy (42677-BR), approved
by the Bank’s Board of Directors on May 1, 2008, confirms the validity of pursuing Bank
assistance to Brazil within the structure defined in the 2003-2007 CAS, including a macro
foundation (macro fundamentals, good governance, and public sector management) and
three pillars (equity, sustainability, and competiveness) to which the improvement of
regional connectivity was closely linked. In addition, the CPS also recommended that the
Bank be engaged at the sub-national level with the states, which were led by highly


2
  The rationale for the change was that work contracts durations were short and any particular event beyond
the handling of DER-SP (such as an exceptionally long wet season) could potentially substantially alter the
value of the indicator with no relation to the performance of DER-SP in contracts management.



                                                    6
motivated governments, which was the case in the state of Sao Paulo. The State
Government maintained a strong commitment to the Pro-Vicinais program over the entire
implementation period.

The project incorporated the main features identified to improve the Bank’s effectiveness
in partnering with middle-income countries (MICs)3. In particular; (i) the project design
had to be streamlined to reduce the non-financial costs of doing business, and to that end
the project accepted Brazil’s procedures related to financial management, definition and
use of technical standards for civil works, as well as identification, prevention, and
mitigation of the environmental impact of road rehabilitation; (ii) the project had to offer
added value beyond financing, and accordingly, the project was designed to provide hands-
on assistance, such as through project preparation, to improve the efficiency of the Pro-
Vicinais Program. This assistance included the development of a cost-effective and
sustainable solution catalogue which specified different types of road interventions based
on existing road and traffic conditions, and also included a horizontal technical assistance
component, implemented through the Secretariats of Planning, Environment, and
Transport, to plan, finance, and execute infrastructure investment programs; and (iii)
because the Bank’s impact can be greater at a program versus an individual project level,
the project was structured in support of the program and to engage with the government in
program-level discussions on improving its effectiveness and efficiency.

The project was heavily client-oriented rather than product-oriented, and was tailored to
answer the specific requests of the government of Sao Paulo. The project supported the
highly prioritized program of the state, which had a strong political commitment.
Furthermore, the project not only met the needs of the state for the implementation of the
Pro-Vicinais program, but also helped to improve the state’s position as the normative and
regulatory authority of the municipal roads. This was done by providing cross-cutting
support in areas transcending the transport sector such as: (i) improving public
administration efficiency in planning and managing large infrastructure
programs; (ii) consolidating capacity in attracting private sector participation in
infrastructure; and (iii) modernizing the state's capacity for evaluating, licensing, and
monitoring environmental and social aspects of infrastructure investments.

A range of risks related to implementation was identified during project preparation, and
appropriate mitigation measures were considered. Those risks, mostly related to
government commitment, the municipalities’ willingness to benefit from the program, and
the ability of DER-SP to handle procurement, financial management, and safeguarding of
policies were considered low or moderate. None of those risks materialized during project
implementation. In fact, the impressively rapid implementation of civil works and the
resulting positive impact on the PDO can be attributed to a design that relied on the
existence of a government-led comprehensive program along with the commitment and


3
 Policy briefing based on strategy paper presented to the World Bank/IMF Development Committee
during the Annual Meetings in Singapore, September 18, 2006, and prepared by the staff of the World
Bank.



                                                   7
availability of donor resources and institutional capacity to deal with safeguarding and
fiduciary issues. The only risk that materialized - factors contributing to a late start of the
technical assistance component - was not identified at the time of appraisal. It is clear that
highly complex information management systems that substantially affect the modus
operandi of its user require a significant amount of lead time, and are subject to a risk of
delays that could be mitigated through a more incremental approach (for example,
modularization). Delays in other TAs, however, mostly related to changed circumstances,
would have been difficult to foresee.

Project components were appropriately related to the objective of the project. The civil
works component focused on the physical condition of the municipal road network, while
the institutional development component addressed the normative and regulatory aspects
that affected it. The four key areas tackled under the project to provide adequate transport
conditions to users (planning, environmental licensing, participation of private sector, and
execution) benefit not only the municipal road network but also most infrastructure sectors,
thus creating a “substantial positive externality”.

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of the civil works component of the project was carried out promptly
and in a problem-free manner. Although the achievements of the institutional strengthening
component were also considerable, diverse factors affected its implementation pace and in
some cases its scope. The following paragraphs highlight the main issues and aspects of
project implementation:

Component 1 - Feeder Roads Rehabilitation. Most of the civil works under this
component were completed within three years after the approval of the project. Some key
features facilitated its swift implementation and the rapid disbursement of loan funds,
including the following:

First and foremost, DER-SP maintained a high level of efficiency in executing the Pro-
Vicinais Program, which insured that there was a “constant supply” of eligible projects.
Because of the project, with borrower and IDB financing, the Program improved 11,900
km of provincial roads in only five years.

Realistic eligibility criteria effectively streamlined project execution: These included: (i)
an internal rate of return (IRR) greater than 15 percent; (ii) restrictions on the same
expenditure not being financed by more than one multilateral agency; (iii) treatment of
environmental and social impacts according to DER-SP’s accepted procedures4; and (iv)
standardized engineering designs created according to an agreed manual, which was
developed by the Bank team.




4
    Resettlements were not expected and did not occur.



                                                     8
Bank Financing was very accommodating. This included a waiver of the Bank’s rule for a
retroactive financing limit of 20 percent of the loan amount and an allowance of retroactive
financing up to 35 percent (US$58 million for the parent project and US$114 million for
the AF) to finance eligible contracts, which consisted of eligible expenditures primarily in
the third phase of the program. As a result, the Bank disbursed US$225 million in FY11
alone, accounting for 46% of the total loan amount of both parent and AF projects.

Component 2 - Institutional Strengthening. The technical assistance activities under this
component were generally implemented in a satisfactory manner. (The detailed activities
and outcomes of the component are summarized in Annex 2). While most of them were
fully launched by 2012, some activities, as explained in the following paragraphs, were
required to change their scope from the one originally planned, which led to the extension
of the project by one year. The total cost of the component was US$10.17 million, about
57 percent below appraisal estimates. The cost reduction is primarily explained by the fact
that most of the institutional development component was implemented in the last two
years of the project, a time during which a favorable exchange rate reduced its dollar cost.

Diverse factors affected the pace of the implementation and the changed scope of the
activities under the institutional strengthening component. In particular, these included the
following:

Circumstances changed and a late decision was made on the alternative use of loan funds.
This involved the Technical Assistance (TA) provided to SEP (which later became SPDR)
for Component 2 (a) of the project. Due to initial delays, in view of the fact that a change
of government had become imminent, it was felt that investment decisions should be left
to the next Administration. Eventually the Borrower and the Bank agreed to finance
activities leading to the improvement of investment management that were successfully
completed in 2015 (see Annex 2). Thus, after the TA was originally suspended, and after
further discussions with SPDR for several more years, two additional TAs were launched
in 2012-13 to enhance an investment management capacity (see Annex 2).

The time originally allocated for the implementation of complex information technology
systems was too optimistic. This involved implementation of technical assistance to
SMA/CETESB (Component 2 (b)) for the development of a unified environmental
licensing system and an integrated geo-referenced system, where the TA was designed to
have SMA’s strong support and ownership. Because of the need to (i) assess alternatives,
(ii) reach a consensus within SMA on an effort that was to have a deep institutional impact,
(iii) develop intricate terms of reference (ToR), and (iv) comply with Bank procurement
rules on which SMA/CETESB had little experience, the technical assistance was only
launched in mid-2012, and was successfully completed in mid-2015.

A pragmatic and gradual approach was applied for developing a large data management
system instead of development of the entire system at once, which required longer time
than had been estimated. In the case of the TA to DER-SP (Component 2 (c)), the first
Pavement Management System (PMS) had been purchased in late 2000 but was never
made operational due to its high level of complexity. Alternatively, the project developed



                                             9
the road mapping and geo-referencing system and the road inventory database system of
state and municipal road network, which was to be an essential part of the integrated PMS.
The project also assisted the DER-SP in introducing the Highway Development and
Management Model (HDM) software, a core management module of the PMS. However,
the progress of integrating these systems to conclude the PMS was slow, in part because it
required a large and fairly effective institution being decentralized into powerful regional
offices which had a strong tendency towards maintaining the status-quo.

Because of the rapid project implementation, the mid-term review was advanced. By mid-
2011, in less than two years from going into effect, the project had disbursed 76 percent of
loan funds and had already committed 96 percent of them. The mid-term review was thus
triggered to take place about six months prior to the planned mid-term review date, because
disbursement at that time exceeded 50 percent of the loan amount (including the additional
financing signed in 2010). The review mostly (i) encouraged DER-SP to improve the
quality of works so as to not reduce the number of eligible projects; and (ii) emphasized
the need to increase project support activity by agencies, such as SPDR, SLT, and DER-
SP, which had been slower in launching TAs under the project, in order to avoid the
reallocation of funds among recipients.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The result indicators established for the project were adequate. In general, the selected
indicators were highly related to the project’s expected outcomes, which centered on the
successful completion of the Pro-Vicinais program. Indicators were simple, precise, and
easily measurable. There are several minor shortcomings. As already mentioned in the
preceding section 1.7, one of the indicators – the indicator on the average percentage delay
in the execution of civil works contracts – was found to be unsuitable for measuring the
efficiency in the implementation of civil work contracts having only a short execution
period, and was replaced by a more adequate Bank’s Core Indicator - the number of km of
municipal roads rehabilitated under the program. The only other exception to the adequacy
of the indicators was the indicator related to the increase in private sector investments in
infrastructure. This is because the amount of foreign investment largely depends on the
country’s business climate, global economic environment, and investor decisions, all of
which are mostly beyond the project’s influence. The indicators could have been further
improved by including one to measure an achievement of an activity to enhance the
capacity of municipalities that are principally responsible for maintenance of municipal
roads considering its importance in sustainability.

For implementation and utilization, the responsibility for monitoring of results was shared
among the different beneficiaries in their respective areas of responsibility. The monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) was implemented as planned. Semi-annual reports were regularly
submitted to the Bank on time and in proper form, and in general, there were no difficulties
in terms of measuring result indicators. These included a satisfaction survey of 2,467 users
of light and commercial vehicles (see the details in Section 3.2).




                                             10
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(a) Safeguards:

Environmental. At appraisal, the project was accorded Category B status in view of the fact
that rehabilitation and maintenance work was foreseen on existing roads and that no
significant negative impacts were expected. As previously mentioned, the Bank accepted
Brazil’s procedures for the identification, prevention, and mitigation of the environmental
impact of road rehabilitation. DER-SP hired an environmental specialist to ensure that
proper procedures were closely followed and that there were no major impacts or safeguard
compliance issues arising during project implementation.

Social. Neither OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement nor OP 4.10 on Indigenous People
were triggered by the project. There was no land acquisition or physical displacement
because all civil works and support activities were conducted on lands situated within the
existing right of way (ROW). Because of the complete absence of any structures or other
household assets along the ROW boundary, even the marginal widening of a road shoulder
to improve road safety or drainage did not result in any adverse social effects on any of the
land owners present in the project area. With respect to OP 4.10, very few indigenous
peoples remain in the state of Sao Paulo - approximately 60,000 in all, or 0.2 percent of the
total population - and most of them now live in urban areas. Brazil’s National Indian
Foundation (FUNAI) recognizes the existence of 17 indigenous territories in the state, 12
of which are legally demarcated, one of which is in the demarcation process, and four of
which have yet to begin this process. None of the project roads are located in the vicinity
of any lands legally occupied or claimed by indigenous peoples. Bank missions confirmed
that the management of the risks and impacts identified in OP 4.12 was conducted in a
satisfactory manner, and that there were no indigenous peoples present in, or with
collective attachments to, the project area.

(b) Fiduciary:

Procurement: Given the experience and institutional capacity within DER-SP,
procurement of goods, works, and services under the project was carried out satisfactorily
in accordance with agreed procedures. Procurement processes of complex information
technology services tended to be lengthy and meticulously reviewed by the supervision
team, an effort recognized by the client as key to the smooth performance of the consulting
firms. There were no procurement issues reported.

Financial Management (FM). The Financial Management Specialist stationed in Brasilia
periodically carried out formal FM supervision. The FM performance was rated as
satisfactory at the beginning of the project but was downgraded to moderately satisfactory
after August 2011 when small shortcomings were observed, including minor
inconsistencies between the designated account balances presented by the project and the
account balances observed by the external auditors through the state’s Integrated Financial
Administration System (SIAFEM). These inconsistencies, however, did not compromise
the provision of timely and required information for project monitoring. Another



                                             11
shortcoming was the delay of DER in implementing the controllership department (hiring
internal auditors). The audit reports were rated as satisfactory, although they were sent with
delays, and in most cases (except for 2013) included unqualified opinions about financial
statements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Municipal governments are responsible for maintaining the municipal roads rehabilitated
by the program. All municipalities that adhered to program were to commit to the adequate
financing of their roads.

Most of the technical assistance activities under the institutional strengthening component
in the key areas (planning, environmental licensing, participation of private sector, and
execution) will continuously improve the efficiency of the state government after the
project is completed. For example, the deliverables prepared by the project are used for
daily operations by the state agencies, including the road inventory and geo-referenced
information system for DER-SP, the environmental licensing and geo-reference systems
for SMA/CETESB, and the Public Private Partnership (PPP) toolkit for SPDR.

The Bank approved in 2013 the Sao Paulo Sustainable Transport Project for Brazil.
(P127723, Loan 8272-BR), which supports activities, particularly on the transport and
logistics planning and environmental management, that were initiated under the subject
project. In addition, the technical assistance under the new project includes promoting the
road safety agenda, which also includes users of municipal roads.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating of relevance of objective: High

The objective of the project remains highly relevant to the government’s and Bank’s
current agendas 5 . The efficiency of the tertiary road network is key in improving
connectivity, reducing the distance between people, markets, and services, and closing
knowledge gaps. The most recent state four-year development plan (the current 2012-2015
Plano Pluri Annual, PPA), identifies as key pillars the sufficiency of transport
infrastructure and logistics, the support for high levels of competitiveness, and access to
domestic and foreign markets. Similarly, the project objective of improving the efficiency
of the municipal road network remains highly relevant in the current CPS 2012-2015,
notably under its third and fourth pillars, one of which is to promote regional economic
development through improved policies and strategic infrastructure investments, and the
other of which is to support the private sector in frontier areas and to further improve


5
  As described in the section 1.1 and 2.1, the objective of the project was also highly relevant to the State's
development priorities and Bank's strategies at appraisal.



                                                     12
sustainable natural resource management and enhancement of climate resilience while at
the same time contributing to local economic development and helping to meet rising
global food demand. The municipal road network plays an important role in the success of
the objectives of both of these pillars.

In addition, the continued high relevance of the project was further confirmed by the
request of the Sao Paulo government for continuing Bank assistance in the areas of
transport and logistics planning and of environmental management initiated under this
project. As a result, the Bank approved in 2013 the Sao Paulo Sustainable Transport Project
for Brazil (Loan 8272-BR) which focused on increasing the Borrower's transport and
logistics efficiency and safety while enhancing its capacity in environmental and disaster
risk management. The design of the latest operation also continues the successful approach
initiated under the subject project, that is, transcending transport through cross-cutting,
horizontal support in areas that are key to the sustainability of infrastructure development
in general.

Rating of relevance of project design/implementation: High

The relevance of the project design and implementation is considered high. The rating
takes into account that the main component, the financing of the Pro-Vicinais Program
which comprised 98 percent of the loan amount, was structured in support of a state-level
program rather than in individual municipal-level projects. This enabled the project to
focus on engaging the government on program-level discussions on improving its
effectiveness and efficiency. The rapid project implementation that was based on reducing
transaction costs, and the effective role of the Bank in strengthening the technical quality
of the engineering of the road works, both attest to the soundness of the design and its
relevance for similar operations in MICs.

The primary outputs and the intermediate outcomes are all consistent with the PDO. The
outputs, including the rehabilitation of almost 12,000 km of municipal roads, and TAs of
the institutional strengthening component, contributed to the improvement of the efficiency
of the municipal road network through better physical municipal road conditions and
through the enhanced management capacities demonstrated in the planning, environmental
management, and management of both municipal roads in particular and of infrastructure
in general.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: High

The efficiency of the operation of Sao Paulo’s paved municipal roads was highly
improved as demonstrated by the following results:

Reduction of economic costs to users of the paved municipal road network. The
rehabilitation of the municipal roads under the Pro-Vicinais program resulted in an




                                            13
estimated reduction of the costs to users of 7.7 percent, surpassing the original PDO
indicator target of 5.7 percent.

Degree of satisfaction of road users. In early 2015, DER-SP carried out a survey of road
users6 of the network that was improved under the 3rd and 4th phases of the Pro-Vicinais
Program. The survey covered 2,047 users comprising 2,078 light vehicles and 380 heavy
ones. The results demonstrated that 91 percent of the survey participants are satisfied with
the improvements, surpassing the original PDO indictor target of 75 percent. Those who
are not satisfied in general reflect the fact that some of the roads do not have a shoulder
lane, which was not included in the program’s scope due to low cost effectiveness.

Intermediate outcomes and outputs: The successful implementation of civil works under
the Pro-Vicinais program, and an institutional strengthening component, with the support
of the project and other financiers, contributed to improving the efficiency of the paved
municipal road network, as shown below:

      (a) Rehabilitation occurred on 11,968 km of municipal roads by June 2015, as
          compared to a target of 11,900 km (including 3,300 km financed by the project and
          the remainder financed by the Borrower and IDB. See Table 3.1 below for details.

                          Table 3.1: Pro-Vicinais Program Financing Status
                                              Costs by Financier (US$ million)

                                   World
                                   Bank            World Bank
                    Extension      Parent          Additional
    Phase           (km)           Project         Financing       IDB       Borrower Total
              1           2,117                                                    175               175
              2           2,525                                          180       117               297
              3           3,112              160             115                   352               608
              4           3,297                              211                   309               402
    Concession*             917
          Total          11,968              160             326         180         953           1,482
* 916.8 km of the municipal road sections were rehabilitatedor maintained under the state road concession
contracts with the private sector

(b) Conditions of the paved municipal road network were improved from the 2009 baseline
    of only 23.6 percent in good condition (IRI<3.5) versus 55.6 percent in poor condition
    (IRI>5), to the current situation of 97.6 percent of the network in good condition, well
    above the original target of 83 percent, according to the road surface condition survey
    on the sampled municipal road sections under Phases 3 and 4 of the Program.




6
    The survey was financed by the counterpart funds.



                                                        14
As the component 1 (b) of the project, and to a great extent thanks to a project design that
allowed the supervision team to concentrate on program rather than project issues, the
Bank was instrumental in the development and subsequent DER-SP’s adoption of a
process to identify, on the basis of life-cost analysis, the most technically efficient road
works based on traffic levels and relevant engineering parameters. These efforts resulted
in the adoption of more costly alternatives under the 3rd Phase of the program which
included more high-traffic and high-volume roads than under the 4th phase, while
ensuring more sustainability in road assets for the long-run.

Contributions to the improvement of the efficiency of the institutional frameworks for the
municipal road network (and for other infrastructure sectors) were made in the following
four key areas: planning, environmental licensing, participation of the private sector, and
execution. These were shown by the achievement of the targets of most of the indicators
monitoring the institutional strengthening of the project, as follows:

Planning: The project (component 2(c)) successfully assisted SLT in preparing the
agenda of the State Logistics Development Plan (SLDP), of which municipal roads are
an integral component. During the project, the SLT developed the agenda of SLDP along
the Tiete River, involving both public and private sectors, and focused on reduction of
logistics costs for bio-fuel and for agriculture products such as sugarcane and soybeans.
Meanwhile, the State Plan for Logistics and Transport 2030 (PDLT) is still under
preparation at ICR. The project financed two activities: (i) a substantive study on freight
demand which linked input-output and origin-destination matrices and which is already
proving its usefulness in estimating freight volumes when related to a general equilibrium
economic model, which was used for the demand projections of the Tiete-River logistics
development plan; and (ii) studies on specific issues of the state’s transport planning, such
as access to ports and airports, and economic evaluations of specific planned investments.
Both activities directly provided important inputs for developing the PDLT.

In addition, the project supported a study to assess the impact of the Pro-Vicinais program,
which included the user’s satisfaction survey. The study was originally initiated by the
request of the Bank. Based on complex econometric factors attempting to link increased
economic activity and use of health and education facilities with the specific interventions
of the project, the study faced the usual challenge of isolating the impact of the road
investments from other external factors. Building on the experiences of this study, SLT is
preparing the impact study of the Bank’s new project on state road rehabilitation.

Environmental Licensing: The project (component 2(b)) contributed to a decrease in the
turn-around time for the evaluation of requests for environmental licensing for work on
municipal roads, and to a decrease of other potentially harmful activities through the
technical assistance to SMA/CETESB for the development of a unified environmental
licensing system and an integrated geo-referenced system The on-line unified licensing
system is in place, effectively assisting potential applicants in the process of permit
requests. The modules related to the actual issuing of licenses is still being tested, but
nevertheless, the parts already implemented for the processing system have had a
significant impact on time savings. The geo-referenced system integrated various



                                             15
information related to land use and environmental data on the same map so that
SMA/CETESB can more efficiently assess the license requests. As a result, in 2014,
the turn-around time for evaluation of environmental licensing requests for medium and
small size projects was 120 days, 50 percent less than the baseline, exceeding the original
result indicator target of a 30 percent decrease.

Participation of the Private Sector: The project (component 2(a)) supported the TA for
the preparation of a toolkit for processing PPPs, including those related to municipal roads.
The TA was completed successfully in 2015, giving the State Government Secretariat7 a
unified online platform for the initiation and processing of PPPs in all infrastructure
sectors, increasing the efficiency and transparency of the process. The platform was
institutionalized by government decree number 61371 of July 25, 2015. Although it cannot
be attributed solely to the project, the private and external investments to the state
investment program in 2011-2014 was R$25.6 billion, well above the target of R$19
billion over a 4 year period.

Execution: The project (component 2(d)) contributed to enhancing the efficiency of the
DER-SP’s execution capacity, though PMS has been partially developed and has not yet
been in operation. A first PMS had been purchased in late 2000, but never became
operational due to a high level of complexity. Alternatively, the DER successfully
installed the database system of the road inventory and geo-references of the state and
municipal road network, both of which will include the essential parts of the PMS. The
project also conducted a statewide traffic volume survey, the results of which were
incorporated into the above system as essential input data. A technical assistance activity
is underway to add a management module to these systems to conclude the PMS, and
will further DER-SP capabilities to more efficiently process information to achieve
optimal pavement management of the state and municipal road network. In addition, the
project supported DER-SP in the introduction of the Highway Development and
Management Model (HDM-4), which will also be incorporated as a part of the PMS
through the purchase of licenses and training courses to support the PMS,

In addition, SPDR, with the assistance of the project (component 2(a)), conducted pilot
projects for introducing “budget by result” (performance-based budget management) to
improve efficiency on executions of the government entities with transparent results and
monitoring frameworks. The pilot projects are expected to have a positive impact on
public sector investment decisions, of which municipal expenditures is an important
component. The TA activities, financed under the project, were related to government
expenditures on education and penitentiaries.




7
    The PPP unit in SPDR (formerly SEP) was reassigned to the Government Secretariat in 2015.



                                                    16
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: High

An ex-post economic analysis was conducted following the same methodology as the one
done at Additional Financing8, which assessed the 3rd and 4th phases of the Pro-Vicinais
program. Costs and benefit were computed over a 20-year period from 2011 to 2030 with
HDM-4, based on data (works, traffic, and so forth) effectively observed on the sampled
municipal road network under the project, including: (i) types of road works applied; (ii)
observed unit costs for road works, which took into consideration the cost increase from
the original appraisal estimate due to the application of a more sustainable solution; and,
(iii) observed traffic volumes before and after the work.

Overall, the ex-post evaluation confirmed that the efficiency of the investments under the
Pro-Vicinais program remains high. The resulting Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) and Net Present Value (NPV) of the Phase 3 and 4 of the Pro-Vicinais program
were respectively 36.6 percent and R$620 million at a 12 percent discount rate over a 20-
year period at a 2010 price, which are better than the ex-ante evaluation results at Appraisal
with the EIRR of 35.20 percent and the NPV of R$521 million percent (full details are
presented in Annex 3).

Most of the activities under the institutional development component also contributed to
efficiency gains, though it is difficult to quantify these benefits in monetary terms. For
example, the environmental management improvements benefit the municipal road
development by reducing transaction costs of environmental licensing processes. The
efficiency gains of most of the activities, such as the pilot project on performance-based
budgets, the PMS, and the PPP toolkit, might benefit the entire state in the long-run through
improvements in public policy decision-making processes.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Project objectives were deemed highly relevant to the country’s priorities aiming at
supporting regional development and equity, reducing logistic costs through, among other
things, improving accessibility to the core state network and enhancing the capacity of the
state for planning and environmental management. The relevance of the project design and
implementation is also considered high considering the primary outputs and the
intermediate outcomes are all consistent with the PDO.



8
  At the appraisal of the parent project, the economic feasibility was assessed based on the road sections of
the 2nd phase assuming its homogeneity to the 3rd phase in terms of the road characteristics although the 2nd
phase was not financed by the project. Therefore, the methodology of the ex-post evaluation follows one of
the ex-ante evaluations at AF which assessed the 3rd and 4th phases.



                                                     17
Efficacy was high and the PDO’s indicators were fully met. Transport costs decreased and
users were mostly satisfied with the road improvements. Beyond the PDO indicator, two
project intermediate result indicators were closely related to the efficiency of the municipal
road network and exceeded the targets, and three out of four indicators that were related to
the institutional strengthening component were fully met.

Efficiency was high as was confirmed by the economic appraisal carried out on selected,
but representative, investment sub-projects that showed that the project socio-economic
rate of return remained robust, yielding significant benefits for the project beneficiaries as
a whole.

The overall outcome was rated satisfactory based on the above assessments and a minor
risk in sustainability of the development outcome as described in the section 4, although
when compared to other similar projects, it appears that this project deserves a high
satisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project was expected to have a positive impact on poverty and social development. It
was thought that improving transport conditions would, on one hand, fuel the economy,
thereby entailing job creation and access to markets, and on the other hand, provide better
connections between communities, thereby fostering access to social facilities and
reinforcing social nets. One of the interesting findings is that according to the user
interview survey, 38 percent of users increased their frequency of trips related to work due
to improvement of road conditions.

In addition, the processing of the Additional Financing took place at a time of decreased
economic activity in which the government of Sao Paulo was seeking to implement
countercyclical measures, including road expenditures. The project was therefore seen as
a vehicle to mitigate the impact of lower economic growth on the most vulnerable sectors
of the population. The project did not specifically address gender issues.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project made considerable advances in the modernization of the public sector
management of the state of Sao Paulo with the introduction of state-of-the-art tools for
user-friendly, interactive and efficient activities, including the processing of environmental
licenses, the integration of a large amount of rich and diverse data from different sources
and its display into a spatial format, the introduction of transparent and efficient
mechanisms for initiating and processing PPPs, and the development of useful models for
transport demand projections and planning.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The project did not produce unintended outcomes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


                                             18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The level of risk to development outcomes is rated as moderate considering the following
factors:

The municipal roads under the program will be maintained by the municipal governments
according to the agreement between them and the state, which was one of the requirements
for participating in the program. In addition, the municipal roads under the program are
still in good condition. The road surface condition survey conducted in 2015 demonstrated
that 97.6 percent of the roads remained in good condition four or five years after the works.
Meanwhile, the financing of the municipal roads continues to raise doubts in terms of the
capacity of the local governments to live up to the actual needs of future maintenance.
Although municipal governments are responsible for municipal roads, historically DER-
SP has been informally in charge of developing and maintaining those networks, which is
not a very clear institutional arrangement from the viewpoint of the long-term road asset
management.

The outcomes of the technical assistance activities under the institutional strengthening
component are considered sustainable. Major deliverables of the project, including the road
inventory and geo-referenced information system for DER-SP, the environmental licensing
and geo-reference systems for SMA/CETESB, and the PPP toolkit for SPDR, are
incorporated into the operational processes in the state agencies.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As noted in the preceding section 2.1, most of the design issues deserved satisfactory
ratings. In particular, what eventually constituted a successful institutional strengthening
component (2 percent of the loan amount) not only contributed to the PDO but also
generated a substantial positive externality. Although the activities did contribute to the
efficiency of the municipal road sector, they clearly addressed issues that were highly
relevant to the efficiency of public sector management well beyond the subject of roads, a
very positive outcome that was not fully captured in the PDO. Probably the most effective
feature of project design was the incorporation of lessons learned with respect to operations
involving MICs. The project design was pragmatically streamlined to reduce the non-
financial costs of doing business by joining in the financing of a program that already had
a proven record of execution with a minimum of new requirements. The project was seen
at the time of appraisal as an opportunity for the Bank to re-engage with the state of Sao
Paulo in the inter-urban transport sector (the last operation had closed in the 1980s). The


                                             19
rather “non-intrusive” design of the civil works component, together with an institutional
strengthening component highly responsive to the demands of the Borrower, underlined
the Bank’s strategy to gradually strengthen the possibility of a rich technical dialogue with
an accomplished state in Brazil, and also served to demonstrate the Bank’s ability to
respond to the MIC agenda by providing high value technical support to a sophisticated
client. The project results and the subsequent ongoing and future-planned Bank operations
in Sao Paulo confirmed the correctness of that approach. Finally, with the benefit of
hindsight, the lead-time for the preparation of very complex IT components was
overoptimistic. No major issue on fiduciary was found at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Traditional supervisory activities to monitor progress toward mid-term outcomes were
carried out, and missions traveled to the field more than twice a year, with additional
regular Bank support provided directly by the project team. Beyond the focus on regular
supervision, there was a strong interest on the part of the Bank in maintaining active options
for supporting institutional activities, even at times when the responsiveness of the
recipient agencies faltered. Supervisory missions did play the envisaged productive role of
the Bank as a constructive partner providing valuable inputs on technical matters such as
the quality of work, the comprehensiveness of terms of references for complicated
assignments, and the suitability of the bidding documents. All these issues were reviewed
in great detail by a highly competent supervision team and were reported in comprehensive
Aide Memoires. Officials interviewed for the Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR) concurred that the presence of the Bank provided helpful technical advice,
and that in some cases it was instrumental in ensuring a bidding process leading to the best
choice of consulting firms. Attention to safeguarding and fiduciary aspects of the project
was also adequate. A lack of a more proactive Bank role in implementing the aim described
in the project components (Part 2(d)(v)) addressing the challenging issues of future
financing of municipal roads and of project sustainability was probably the only weak point
of this operation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating is based on the fact that both the design and the supervision of the
project were satisfactory as described above. Also the Bank management should be
commended for their attention to the Borrower’s needs by agreeing to extend the closing
date of a loan that was mostly disbursed to finance important institutional strengthening
activities identified late in the execution period.




                                             20
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The government of Sao Paulo’s support for the implementation of the Pro-Vicinais
Program was unwavering throughout the project implementation period, consistently
supplying the necessary funding that allowed the remarkable achievement of improving
almost 12,000 km of municipal roads in less than five years.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The rating gave substantial weight to the role of DER-SP as the executing agency of civil
works under the program, the main component of the project, and as the agency responsible
for the coordination of information gathered from SPDR, SLT and SMA on, among others,
procurement planning, certification of bills, progress in the activities underway, and
achievement of intermediate outcome indicators. The performance of DER-SP on these
activities was rated as highly satisfactory, both in terms of its general institutional capacity
for executing civil works and of its effective management of the project (technical,
fiduciary, and safeguards). The performance of DER-SP on the implementation of its
institutional strengthening component was less satisfactory. Effective actions for the
implementation of the PMS dragged on until late in the project execution period, in part
because of a general trend of diminishing human resources and the need for their
replacement in specific areas, particularly in information technology. The performance of
the other implementing agencies was mixed. SMA’s performance was highly satisfactory,
achieved to a great extent because it was the agency that from the outset had the most
clearly defined specific need for and concept of the use of the loan funds. SLT and SPDR,
on the other hand, dropped some of the original proposed studies, and it took time until the
final scope of their components were defined.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above considerations, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The highly streamlined project design proved to be a valuable instrument and provided the
right amount of flexibility in project implementation that was the key for the success of the
Pro-Vicinais Program for a sophisticated client with important needs. The project allowed
the Bank’s team to concentrate on supporting the government’s overall program and to



                                              21
provide guidance on the program’s technical and financial aspects, free from the excessive
burden that usually is associated with operations centered on individual transactions.

The sufficient lead-time and resources for consensus building and prioritization of the
policy goals were a key to successfully introducing new management systems involving
very complex procedural changes. During the initial years of the project, the needs of some
of the implementing agencies focused on internal deliberations on strategies and goals.
This required further time to help define future assistances and to develop complex terms
of reference for more time-intensive consultancies. It should be emphasized that the long
lead-time in defining specifications of the management systems led as a result to successful
development of the systems, particularly in the case of the environmental licensing and
geo-reference systems for SMA/CETESB as well as the PPP toolkit for SPDR. However,
approaches dividing the final objective into modules, and adding them at a pace in line
with the life of the project, could be more efficient.

The sustainability of the rural road asset could be enhanced through more active
engagement of the project in assisting clients in supporting local governments. While the
issue of insufficient resources of local governments to maintain their roads is an ubiquitous
and well-known challenge, the challenge was more complex with a majority of the Bank’s
projects because the projects’ beneficiaries were at the national or state level where they
normally do not have any responsibility for maintaining rural roads and therefore have less
incentive to invest in this area. The projects would need to proactively motivate these
national- and state-level clients to support local governments in assessing and developing
mechanisms for sustainable maintenance of their road networks.

Standardized engineering designs with a classification of different levels of maintenance
interventions based on simple road parameters are an important contributor for implementing
large-scale roads rehabilitation programs rapidly and efficiently but without compromising
quality engineering. This approach was again confirmed as effective in this project and could
be applied not only to rural roads but also to state- and national-level road projects. Future
similar operations should encourage this methodology and consider the introduction of
specific training for time-to-time updating of the guidelines.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                             22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                           Percentage of
            Components                 Appraisal Estimate              Actual
                                                                                            Appraisal
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation                      477.04 (1)            1,010.25 (2)          111.77%
Institutional Strengthening                       23.80                   10.17              -57.27%
              Total Baseline Cost                500.84                1,020.42              103.74%
Physical Contingencies
                                                  50.08                     0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                  45.08                    0.00
             Total Project Costs                 596.00                1,020.42                71.09%
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.42                    0.42
     Total Financing Required                    596.42                1,020.84                71.16%


(1) Refers to the estimated cost of rehabilitating 3,100 km of roads of the 3rd phase of the Program with
financing from the Parent Project (Loan 7688-BR) and counterpart fund.
(2) Refers to the final cost of financing a total of 6,409km of roads of the 3rd and 4th phase of the Program
with the financing from both the Parent Project and the AF jointly with the counterpart fund.



(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
            Source of Funds                   Estimate      Estimate
                                                                          Appraisal
                                            (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                    429.77        527.42        22.72%
IBRD                                        166.65        493.425       196.08%




                                                      23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The following table includes the activities carried out during the project per component
linked to the outputs attained:
                          Table: Project Activities and Outputs

 Component                  Activities                                   Outputs
 Component 1 – Feeder roads rehabilitation (actual cost US$1,010.25)

                Improve state’s feeder road             The project supported the rehabilitation
                network                                 works of almost 3,300km of municipal
                                                        road sections out of 11,900km under the
                                                        Program, which reduced transport costs of
                                                        road users. As demonstrated in section 3.2,
                                                        the program was financed by various
                                                        agencies, including the Bank, IDB, and
                                                        their counterparts.

                                                 As indicated in the Loan Agreement, the
                                                 project included financing to state roads if
                                                 applicable. However, at the end, the
                                                 project did not finance any state roads.
 Component 2 – Institutional strengthening (actual cost US$10.17)

                    (a) Support to structuring and management of the state investment
                        program (Economy and Planning Secretariat, SEP, later SPDR)

                Enhance efficiency of the state’s       The project supported the following two
                PPP policy                              activities: (i) the development of the PPP
                                                        toolkits and the new website to accept
                                                        online requests of PPP project proposals
                                                        with high transparency (the online process
                                                        was authorized by the state decree); and
                                                        (ii) training courses on financial analysis
                                                        to modernize PPP processes.

                Introduce the management                The consulting service financed by the
                methodology of “budget by               project prepared the monitoring and
                results” into the state agencies        evaluation frameworks of “budget by
                                                        results” for the pilot agencies. The pilot
                                                        projects were conducted for the state
                                                        administration secretariat in 2014 and the
                                                        education secretariat in 2015.

                Structuring and management of           After an initial delay in launching the TA,
                the State Investment Program.           the time for the change of government
                                                        became imminent and it was felt that
                                                        investment decisions should be left to the




                                                   24
                                    next Administration. Thus, the TA was
                                    canceled.


    (b) Support to modernization of the state’s environmental management
        structure (SMA and CETESB)

Integrated environmental geo-       The environmental geo-reference system
reference system of the state of    (DATAGEO) was developed through the
Sao Paulo                           following activities: (i) DATAGEO
                                    system development, (ii) acquisition of the
                                    IT equipment for the DATAGEO team,
                                    and (iii) acquisition of digital equipment
                                    for environmental police which use
                                    DATAGEO in onsite inspection. The
                                    DATAGEO integrated various information
                                    related to land use and environmental data
                                    on the same map so that SMA/CETESB
                                    can more efficiently assess the license
                                    requests. The SMA is requesting the Bank
                                    to upgrade further the DATAGEO with the
                                    financing of the new Bank project: Sao
                                    Paulo Sustainable Transport Project
                                    (P127723).

Improved environmental              Integrated & Unified Environmental
licensing system                    Licensing System (GAIA) was installed in
                                    2015 through a consulting service financed
                                    by the project. The on-line unified
                                    licensing system is in place effectively
                                    assisting potential applicants in the process
                                    of permit requests. The modules related to
                                    the actual issuing of licenses is still being
                                    tested but nevertheless, the parts of the
                                    processing system already implemented
                                    have had a remarkable impact on time
                                    savings.

Development of pilot system of      While two consultants were hired to assist
collecting site survey data         CETESB in developing the pilot system,
                                    the strategy of the system development
                                    was changed in the middle of the contracts
                                    and the services were cancelled.

(c) Support to consolidation of institutional and planning capacity in the
transport sector (Transport Secretariat, SLT)

Logistic demand diagnosis           The study of logistics demand in the state
                                    was conducted to identify needs in the
                                    logistic sector together with the State



                               25
                                    Development Plan. The study included
                                    input-output and origin-destination data,
                                    using a general equilibrium economic
                                    model.

Support to the new State           This activity was implemented by hiring
Logistics and Transport            six individual consultants to work on
Development Plan 2030 (PDLT)       specific areas in transport and logistics
                                   planning, including: (i) a diagnosis
                                   cabotage and port system, (ii) an economic
                                   study, (iii) an environmental study, (iv) an
                                   economic modelling plan, (v) an air
                                   transport demand study, and (vi) accesses
                                   to the three major airports in the Sao Paulo
                                   Metropolitan area. The State Plan for
                                   Logistics and Transport 2030 (PDLT) is
                                   still under preparation at ICR.
Evaluation of the Pro-Vicinais     An economic model was developed and an
program                            assessment of impacts of the Pro-Vicinais
                                   program was conducted, including user
                                   satisfaction surveys. Building on the
                                   experiences of this study, SLT is preparing
                                   the impact study of the Bank’s new project
                                   on state road rehabilitation.
(d) Support to improved public sector management capacity in the road
sector (State Road Department, DER)

Development of integrated road      The two road management systems of the
management system of state and      state and municipal road were developed:
municipal roads                     (i) the Highway Cadastral System
                                    (SICAR) including database of road
                                    inventory with basic physical
                                    characteristics, and (ii) the roads mapping
                                    and geo-referencing system (SIRGEO).
                                    Both systems will be an essential part of
                                    the PMS.

Development and facilitation the    8 licenses of HDM-4 software were
use of the Highway Development      purchased in 2012. In 2015, a 2-week
and Management Model (HDM-          training session on HDM-4 took place for
4)                                  the 16 DER-SP professionals.

Traffic study and analysis          The statewide traffic counting surveys on
                                    the state road network under the
                                    jurisdiction of DER-SP were conducted in
                                    2012-13. The data of traffic counts will be
                                    integrated into the SICAR mentioned
                                    above.




                              26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction
This annex summarizes the ex-post economic analysis of the project. The objective of the
analysis is to assess the economic costs and benefits of the 3rd and 4th phases of the Sao
Paulo municipal road rehabilitation program (Pro-Vicinais program) implemented by
DER-SP, a part of which was funded by Bank Loans 7688-BR and 7838-BR, using the
methodology adopted for the ex-ante evaluation conducted at AF 9 . The major project
benefits are savings in road-user costs, including vehicle operating costs and travel time
costs, and reduction in maintenance and rehabilitation costs. To develop the ex-post
analysis model, several modifications from the ex-ante model were made taking into
account and based on: (i) the type of works effectively executed; and, (ii) observed traffic
volumes and unit costs for works. The evaluation was conducted by using the HDM-4
simulation model. The results show that Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net
Present Value (NPV) were respectively 36.6 percent and R$620 million at a 12 percent
discount rate at a 2010 price.

Methodology
The ex-ante economic assessment included an evaluation of the municipal road
rehabilitation under the 3rd and 4th phases of the Pro-Vicinais program with the total
extension of 6,019 km. The evaluation conducted the detailed analysis on the sampled road
sections of 1,053 km, representing 17 percent of all sections under the two phases. This
evaluation was accomplished by the DER of São Paulo using the Highway Development
and Management Model (HDM-4) that performed a Cost Benefit analysis of roads
rehabilitation and maintenance projects using the Consumer’s Surplus approach.

The project benefits mainly consisted of the reduction of vehicle operating costs and
passenger time costs, together with the reduction of maintenance costs to the road agency
when compared to the reference scenario (a “do minimum” scenario including only routine
maintenance and reconstruction when the infrastructure triggers a deteriorated situation).
Additional benefits to road users which have not been quantified included reduced
accidents, improved driving, and riding comfort. Following the same methodology as for
the ex-ante economic appraisal, the project externalities on environment (including global
warming) that were expected to be negligible or even positive were not taken into account
in the analysis.




9
  At appraisal of the parent project, the economic feasibility was assessed based on the road sections of the
2nd phase assuming its homogeneity to the 3rd phase in terms of the road characteristics, although the 2nd
phase was not financed by the project. Therefore, the methodology of the ex-post evaluation follows one of
the ex-ante evaluations at AF which assessed the 3rd and 4th phases.



                                                     27
The program was analyzed by assessing the actualized streams of benefits to road users
over a 20 year period, and savings on maintenance costs (as compared to the without-
program case) net of the costs of the observed road works. The yearly discount rate used
was 12 percent.

Traffic Volume and Growth
The traffic volumes were updated by the traffic count survey on sampled municipal roads
under the program. See Table C.1 below for summaries of survey results. The traffic data
after the works is available on the 17 road sections in diverse regions, about 30 percent of
the study scope. The annual traffic growth rate is assumed as 1 percent considering the
recent economic downturn in Brazil.


                      Table C.1: Traffic Counting Survey Results




Road Costs
The road costs were updated based on the actual applied type of civil works on each road
section. All costs are at a 2010 price. The applied unit costs of rehabilitation and
maintenance are summarized below in Table C.2.




                                            28
                                                                      Table C.2: Road Costs
                                   Maintenance            Routine                                                          R$9,360/km
                                                          Patching                                                         R$22.47/m2
                                   Rehabilitation         Asphalt Surfacing 30mm                                           R$17.9/m2
                                                          Asphalt Surfacing 40mm                                           R$23.46/m2
                                                          Asphalt Surfacing 50mm                                           R$29.2/m2
                                                          Reshaping                                                        R$10.87/m2
                                                          Asphalt surfacing 50mm, graded stone
                                   Reconstruction         15cm and crushed stone 15cm,                                     R$77.23/m2
                                                          Localized recuperation with asphalt
                                                          surfacing 22mm, graded stone 16.5cm
                                                          and soil cement 38cm                                             R$90.38/m2


              Vehicle Operating Costs
              The following Table C.3 presents the average vehicle fleet characteristics and operation
              costs.
                                           Table C.3: Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Operation Costs
                                                                                    Medium        Heavy      Articulated
         -                              Description         Car           Bus
                                                                                     Truck        Truck        Truck
                                                                                                                            Bitrem      Rodotrem     Treminhão

                    New Vehicle Cost (Real/vehicle)       36,744.00    290,000.00   84,000.00   155,800.00   299,630.00    374,350.00   440,767.00   338,000.00

                    New Tire Cost (Real/tire)              208.00       1,100.00     840.00      1,100.00     1,380.00      1,380.00     1,380.00     1,380.00

                    Fuel Cost (Real/liter)                  2.50          1.87        1.87         1.87         1.87          1.87         1.87         1.87

                    Lubricant Cost (Real/liter)            10.00         16.50       16.50        16.50        16.50         16.50        16.50        16.50
Economic Unit Costs Maintenance Labor Cost (Real/hour)      4.08         35.08       12.12        19.84        42.24         56.44        70.30        55.24

                    Crew Cost (Real/hour)                   8.03         24.91       16.60        16.60        16.60         16.60        16.60        16.60

                    Overhead (Real)                         1.00          1.00        1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00

                    Interest Rate (%)                      12.00         12.00       12.00        12.00        12.00         12.00        12.00        12.00

                    Passenger Working Time (Real/hour)      6.49          2.21        1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00

                    Kilometers Driven per Year (km)       23,000.00    96,000.00    60,000.00   84,000.00    96,000.00     96,000.00    96,000.00    96,000.00

                    Hours Driven per Year (hr)             550.00       1,920.00    1,920.00     1,920.00     1,920.00      1,920.00     1,920.00     1,920.00

                    Service Life (years)                   11.00         13.00       11.00        11.00        11.00         11.00        11.00        11.00

  Utilization and   Percent of Time for Private Use (%)    100.00         1.00        1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00
     Loading        Number of Passengers                    1.00         29.00        2.00         2.00         2.00          2.00         2.00         2.00

                    Work Related Passenger Trips (%)       75.00         75.00        1.00         1.00         1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00

                    Gross Vehicle Weight (tons)             1.50         10.00       10.50        15.50        27.50         38.00        50.00        49.00

                    ESA Loading Factor                      0.00          2.96        2.96         4.00         7.50         10.83        14.17        10.83




              Scenarios

              The HDM-4 model was run on each lot of work, taking into consideration the following
              scenarios:
                  Without project alternative: routine maintenance including vegetation clearing,
                     drainage cleaning, pothole patching (100 percent), and rehabilitation or
                     reconstruction when IRI >7 was topped with asphalt concrete (except for the two
                     first years of the project).



                                                                                    29
      With project alternative: the above projected rehabilitation works, the routine
       maintenance of the without project alternative completed by a periodic maintenance
       consisting in the resurfacing with asphalt concrete when IRI reaches 4.5.

Results
Table C.4 below details the net present value (NPV) and economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) of the program in comparison to the ex-ante evaluation. Overall, EIRR and NPV
of the entire 3rd and 4th phases of the program were respectively 36.6 percent and R$620
million at a 12 percent discount rate at a 2010 price. While the EIRR is somehow similar
to the previous values, the NPV decreased from the one at AF. One of the possible reasons
was the lower traffic growth rate applied to the ex-post evaluation (1 percent) compared to
the ex-ante (3 percent).


   Table C.4: Net Present Value and Economic Internal Rate of Return of the Program


                                     At Appraisal      At Additional Financing    At ICR
                                     (Phase 2)         (Phase 3)     (Phase 4)    (Phase 3 & 4)

  Net Present Value (R$ million)                 521          885           544            620
  Economic Internal Rate of Return
  (EIRR)                                   35.20%         40.70%        20.50%         36.60%




                                            30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Flavio Chaves                   Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist.   AFTN3    Safeguards Specialist
Regis Thomas Cunningham         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   GGODR    Team Member
Nicolas Drossos                 Consultant                            GGODR    Team Member
Eric R. Lancelot                Sr. Transport. Engr.                  AFCF1    Team Leader
Aymeric-Albin Meyer             Operations Adviser                    OPSPQ    Team Leader
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg     Lead Counsel                          LEGES    Team Member
Luis R. Prada Villalobos        Senior Procurement Specialist         GGODR    Team Member
Solange P. Van Veldhuizen       Program Assistant                     ECSHD    Team Member
Adrien J. Veron                 Consultant                            LCSTR    Team Member

Supervision/ICR
Flavio Chaves                   Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec.         GWADR    Safeguards Specialist
Eric R. Lancelot                Sr. Transport. Engr.                   AFCF1   Team Leader
Marcilio Augusto Neves          Consultant                             GTIDR   Team Member
Jason Jacques Paiement          Social Development Specialist          CRKI2   Team Member
Henrique Penna Naves            Consultant                            LCSTR    Team Member
Jean-Claude Sallier             Consultant                            LCSTR    Team Member
Sivan Tamir                     Operations Officer                    SECPO    Team Member
Elisabet Vila Jorda             Junior Professional Associate         LCSTR    Team Member
Satoshi Ogita                   Transport Specialist                   GTIDR   Team Leader
Gregoire Francois Gauthier      Sr. Transport Engineer                 GTIDR   Team Member
Virginia Maria Henriquez                                                       Team Member
                                Consultant                            GTIDR
Fernandez
Rodrigo Alessandro Akira                                                       Team Member
                                Consultant                            GTIDR
Nakama
Borja Castro Lancharro          Consultant                            GTIDR Team Member
Hanayo Taguchi                  Program Assistant                     GTIDR Team Member
Maria Jose Vilas Boas Pereira                                               Safeguards Specialist
                                Safeguards Specialist                 LCSSO
Weiss
                                                                            Financial
Susana Amaral                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist   GGODR Management
                                                                            Specialist
                                                                            Financial
Eduardo Franca de Souza         Financial Management Specialist       GGODR Management
                                                                            Specialist
Clarisse Torrens Borges Dall                                                Senior Environmental
                                Senior Environmental Specialist       GENDR
Acqua                                                                       Specialist
Cristina Oliveira Roriz         Consultant                            LCSEN Team Member




                                                    31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ thousand (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                                                19.79                      129.55
FY09                                                21.00                      127.71
FY10                                                 0.35                       11.14
                          Total:                    41.14                      268.40
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                                    -                           -
FY10                                                25.69                      137.13
FY11                                                17.03                      106.22
FY12                                                15.73                      102.23
FY13                                                15.47                       73.20
FY14                                                15.34                       73.82
FY15                                                 8.58                       56.82
                          Total:                    97.84                      549.41




                                       32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following are the main comments, with the statement of relevant issues and lessons
learned that were achieved through the development of the project, made by the client.

The World Bank performance

The World Bank's role was essential, especially during the project implementation stage in
not only providing guidelines, objectives, and goals, but also in the planning and
construction of the contractual model (administratively, legally, and technical). The World
Bank supported DER-SP in developing and implementing the project, and providing
methodologies and procedures to be adopted by the Bank.

During implementation, some concerns arose about disagreements between the Bank and
DER-SP related to the legal principal of public works and services contracts due to the
differences between the Bank’s guidelines and the recommended procedures of the external
Supervising and Advisor Organizations to DER-SP, notably the State Court of Auditors
(ECA), which led to numerous discussions between the DER-SP procurement team and
the Bank’s procurement experts which eventually resulted in the delay of some bidding
processes. These disagreements and resulting discussions showed the need to increase the
knowledge of the public administration on Bank policies on goods and services contracts
and on their legal and political obligations and limits, in order to avoid conflicts and
impasses that could compromise the required goals.

Contracts management

Contract management is supported by computerized systems that help monitor and control
administrative actions related to these contracts. Currently, DER-SP has the following
systems:

      Measurement System – (FCTM) that aims to track physical and financial progress
       on a monthly basis for each contract;
      Financial Management System – (FCVB) that is used in order to manage
       information related to contractual payments and which are also made available to
       the Financial Tracking System (SIAFEM), which conducts the budgetary and
       financial implementation of the State Government; and
      Management and Supervision Reports that provide information on the physical
       progress of contracts.

All systems’ operation, maintenance, and improvements fall under PRODESP’s
responsibility (Procesamento de dados de Estado de Sao Paulo), a public company linked
to the State Department of Public Management, which has been making efforts to
restructure methods and procedures to modernize systems. The new systems are being
deployed to make managerial information more reliable. However, it still contains
restrictions on the physical progress for on-going contracts.




                                            35
Despite the efforts and resources spent in nearly a decade, the DER/SP does not have yet
an integrated set of computer systems that are compatible with the size of the public
investments involved and that reflect their economic and strategic importance. It is still
missing a powerful computational tool which can perform current administrative functions,
but which can also add both planning systems and existing costs, as well as others, that
must be created to meet the technical, administrative, operational, and strategic agency
demands.

It is evident too that meeting just the compliance with administrative goals for reducing
temporal interregnum between the invitation to bid, the contract signature and the start of
work, do not guarantee an optimal process-management and technical-operational
performance of the work.

On the contrary, technical disputes from the projects and budgets have always been present
in the program. Even though there was good quality at the time of their preparation, it was
very often necessary to adapt to the reality, since the pavement recovery solutions were
adopted from a solution matrix and applied to the results of the visual surveys of road
conditions. Considering that design changes are a key driver of increases in the value of
contracts, they must be approved by the technical team of DER-SP and the Bank. In this
regard, it is essential to improve the processes for review and approval of any design
changes, which provides greater flexibility in procedures, to prevent any interruptions and
delays in the completion of works.

It is also important to improve administrative processes so as not to undermine the
fundamental technical elements, the quality of the work, and the adoption of systematic
monitoring system to follow all the necessary steps for project implementation, from
specialized surveys in the field, through preparation of projects, budgets, procurement, and
execution, in addition to the currently monitored activities.

Similarly, there is a need for the implementation of consistent systematic management of
technical information in an integrated manner and for prompt translation of the contents
of studies and elaborate designs and their works. This systematic approach should be linked
to other administrative and financial systems to produce management and strategic
indicators for the various hierarchical levels of DER-SP.




                                            36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

 Project Appraisal Document, June 8, 2009
 Project Paper, June 23, 2010




                                      38
MAP 1.1 Roads under the 3rd Phase of the Pro-Vicinais Program




                             39
MAP 1.2 Roads under the 4th Phase of the Pro-Vicinais Program




                             40
