      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020150


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P106663                                         BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
 Brazil                                          Transport & ICT                                    P118077



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-76880,IBRD-78370                                 30-Jun-2014                                                              923,195,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  09-Jul-2009                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           493,425,000.00                                                            0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            493,425,000.00                                                            0.00

  Actual                                                        493,425,000.00                                                            0.00




 Sector(s)
 Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural services and infrastructure(100%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Victoria Alexeeva                   Robert Mark Lacey                   Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project objective was “to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s [the State of São Paulo, Brazil] paved municipal road network” (Loan
    Agreement, p.7; Project Appraisal Document (PAD), p.vii).

    The PAD (p. vii) specified that efficiency was to be improved as a result of improvements to the institutional framework used by the Borrower
    in four key areas to deliver adequate transport conditions to users (planning, environmental licensing, participation of private sector, and
    execution), combined with improvements in the condition of the paved municipal road network.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      1: Feeder Roads Rehabilitation (appraised US$477.04 million, actual US$1,010.25 million) included (a) rehabilitation works of about 100
      km of the state’s paved road sections, and 1,500 km of particular sections of the state’s municipal paved road network, and b)
      consolidating the State Road Administration’s (DER-SP) capacity to manage its road investment programs, including the Government's
      municipal paved road rehabilitation program (the Pró-Vicinais Program).

      2: Institutional Strengthening (appraised US$23.8 million, actual US$10.17 million) included (a) support to the structure and
      management of the state investment program (Economy and Planning Secretariat); (b) modernization of the state’s environmental
      management system (Environment Secretariat); (c) consolidation of planning and logistics capacity in the transport sector (Transport
      Secretariat); and (d) improved public sector execution capacity in the road sector (State Road Department).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost: The total project cost increased twofold from US$477.04 million to US$1,010.25 million by project closure, due to cost
      overruns and additional works.
      Financing: The original IBRD loan in the amount of US$166.65 million was complemented by Additional Financing (AF) in the amount of
      US$326.78 million, to total US$493.43 million. At closure, the loan disbursed at exactly the same amount of US$493.43 million. The AF
      was approved on August 3, 2010 to cover cost overruns of rehabilitation works on about 700 km of the 1,500 km of road sections
      financed under the original loan as well as to scale up the project by adding another 1,200 km paved feeder roads for rehabilitation.
      Borrower Contribution: The Borrower (the State of São Paulo) contributed US$527.42 million in total, up from the original commitment
      of US$429.77 million and additional commitment of US$82 million during AF in 2010.
      Dates: The original project closing date was extended by one year at a Level 2 restructuring in 2014 from June 30, 2014 to June 30,
      2015, due to delays in the institutional strengthening activities. The additional financing in 2010 that included additional works did not
      trigger revision in the project closing date.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     The State of São Paulo is the most populous state of Brazil with the highest gross domestic product, which accounts for about 40% of Brazil’s
     GDP and surpasses that of Chile. At the time of appraisal, the State Multi-Year Expenditures Program (PPA) for 2008-2011 set as priorities
     increasing the State’s competitiveness and improving inter-regional equity within the State through a combination of interventions, including
     infrastructure. Its regional development agenda focused, among other areas, on transport and logistics to reduce transport costs through
     improvement of accessibility to the State's core paved road network (supported by the State's municipal paved roads rehabilitation program
     (the Pro-Vicinais Program)).The World Bank Group’s (WBG's)Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) at appraisal (FY 2008-2011) identified poor
     transport infrastructure as a major bottleneck in Brazil and placed emphasis on addressing logistical growth constraints, through support to
     roads, among others. At closure, the objectives remained relevant to the State’s priorities set out in PPA for 2012-2015 and the WBG’s CPS
     FY2012-2015, which also targeted improvements in transport and logistics.




     Rating
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the objective to improve the efficiency of the paved municipal road network was not specific. While the PAD p.10 indicated
       that the improved efficiency would be monitored on the delivery side during implementation of the Pro-Vicinais Program (through intermediate
       indicators), the project development outcomes would measure improved efficiency on the demand side (i.e. gains accruing to users), through
       reduction of economic costs to users on the paved municipal road network and the degree of satisfaction of road users. Moreover, several
       selected intermediate indicators in the results framework were not fully capturing the efficiency gains directly related to the road network
       management at the municipal level but at the state level, including other sectors. The activities related to improving the efficiency of public
       sector management were well beyond the subject of municipal roads, and this was not fully captured in the project development objective (ICR,
       p.19).




       Rating
       Modest



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve the efficiency of the State of São Paulo's paved municipal road network.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • A total of 3,300km of municipal road sections were rehabilitated under the project, out of a total of 11,968 km of municipal roads
        rehabilitated under a four-phase Pro-Vicinais Program. As a result of the Pro-Vicinais Program, 97.6% of the paved municipal road
        network were in good condition (IRI<3.5) at project closure, up from 23.6% in 2009 and well above the targeted 83%.


    Under the institutional strengthening activities:

        • In support of planning, the agenda of the State Logistics Development Plan (SLDP) along the Tiete River was prepared and agreed,
        involving both public and private sectors (the target was the overall agenda of public and private sector actions to reduce logistics
        bottlenecks); two studies were produced on freight demand and aspects of the state’s transport planning that provided inputs for the State
        Plan for Logistics and Transport 2030 (PDLT), which was under preparation at the ICR stage.
        • In support of environmental licensing, the environmental geo-reference system (DATAGEO) was developed that integrated various data
        related to land use and environmental information on the same map, and an on-line Integrated & Unified Environmental Licensing System
        (GAIA) was installed in 2015 to assist potential applicants in the process of permit requests, although the modules related to the actual
        issuing of licenses were still being tested at project closure.
        • In support of private sector participation, a toolkit for processing PPPs and an on-line platform were developed in all infrastructure
        sectors to increase the efficiency and transparency of the process. The platform was institutionalized by a government decree 61371 of
        July 25, 2015. While private and external investments toward the state’s projects in 2011-2014 increased to R$25.6 billion in total
        (including metro, highway, and energy projects), as compared to R$11.6 billion in 2009 and surpassing the target, this is influenced by
        many factors beyond the project contribution (ICR, Result’s Framework).
        • In support of efficiency and improved public sector management capacity in the road sector, the Pavement Management System (PMS)
        was partially developed and was not yet operational at project closure. The progress included the database system of the road inventory
        and geo-references of the state and municipal road network installed by DER-SP, a statewide traffic volume survey, and introduction of the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



    Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). The structuring and management of the State Investment Program was
    cancelled. The project helped pilot the monitoring and evaluation frameworks of “budget by results” (performance-based budget
    management) related to government expenditures on education and penitentiaries for the state administration secretariat in 2014 and the
    education secretariat in 2015.



 Outcomes

    • The rehabilitation of the municipal roads under the Pro-Vicinais program resulted in an estimated reduction of economic costs to users
    of 7.7% between 2011 and 2014, surpassing the target of 5.7%.
    • 91% of road users reported that they were satisfied with the road improvements, surpassing the target of 75%. The results are based on
    the interview surveys of road users of the paved municipal road network that was improved under the 3rd and 4th phases of the Pro-
    Vicinais Program. The survey was carried out by DER-SP in 2015 and involved 2,047 users (2,078 light vehicles and 380 heavy vehicles).
    The reason for lack of satisfaction was the fact that some roads do not have a shoulder lane, which was not included in the program’s
    scope due to low cost effectiveness, as explained by the ICR p. 14.
    • With regard to improved efficiency at the institutional level, efficiency gains were reported in evaluation of the environmental licensing
    requests for medium and small projects: the turn-around time was 120 days at project closure, improving from 240 days in 2009 and
    surpassing the target of a 30% improvement. The efficiency indicator related to the reduction of the average delay in civil works contracts
    under the Pro-Vicinais Program was dropped and not reported. The ICR explains that the duration period of contracts was short, and
    external factors beyond the control of DER-SP could affect their implementation, for example the wet season. The ICR does not provide
    other evidence that the efficiency related to the municipal roads network improved at the institutional level. While most of the outputs were
    delivered as planned, some were clearly in support of the State’s capacity in handling projects in infrastructure and other sectors at the
    state level, rather than at the municipal level. The planned support to municipalities in defining and implementing mechanisms for
    sustainable maintenance of municipal networks was not carried out. Overall, the implementation of the institutional strengthening activities
    was less efficient, affecting the expected results, in particular with respect to development of the new pavement management system,
    which was still not operational at project closure.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the 3rd and 4th phases of the entire Program was estimated at 36.6% with NPV of
R$620 million at a 12 percent discount rate at a 2010 price. The economic analysis was conducted on the sample of road sections of 1,053 km
that represented 17% of all sections under the 3rd and 4th stages. It followed the methodology used during the Additional Financing (AF), which
assessed the 3rd and 4th phases of the Pro-Vicinais program. Using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), the benefits
were calculated for the reduction of vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs, along with the reduction of maintenance costs to the road
agency, when compared to a “do minimum”. At the time of the AF, the EIRR for the 3rd phase was estimated at 40.7% with an NPV of R$885
million and the EIRR for the 4th phase was 20.5% with an NPV of R$544 million at a 12% discount rate. A slight decrease in the NPV value as
compared to the AF estimate was explained by a lower traffic growth rate applied to the ex-post evaluation (1%) compared to the one at the AF
(3%). An ex-ante economic analysis was done for the road sections of the 2nd phase based on the assumption of its homogeneity to the 3rd
phase in terms of the road characteristics. The estimated ex-ante EIRR was 35.2% with NPV of R$ 521 million, at a 12 % discount rate. The
analysis used the HDM-4.

The project implementation period was one year longer than planned due to delays in the institutional strengthening activities,
while the road works were completed as scheduled. There was a high cost overrun on the road works, which triggered the Additional Financing
to cover half of the originally planned volume of roads works (700 km out of 1500 km). The cost overrun is explained by an unfavorable
exchange rate during the first year of project implementation and the increased work due to the application of heavier than originally estimated
solutions as a result of the improved engineering standard developed under the project to increase the sustainability of the municipal road
assets (ICR, p.5). As explained by the AF Project Paper (p.4), there was underestimation of the costs of works at the preparation stage that
were based on the prices of the Program's earlier phases. Technical solutions had therefore to be adjusted to the more deteriorated conditions
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



of the roads.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              0
 Appraisal                                                                 35.20
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                              36.60
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project achieved its objective of improving the efficiency of the
paved municipal road network to a substantial extent, albeit with minor shortcomings at the institutional level. Efficiency is assessed as
substantial.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating


     • The municipal roads under the Program are reported to be maintained by the municipal governments, according to their agreement with the
     State, which was one of the requirements for participating in the Program. The ICR (p.19), however, adds that financing of the municipal
     roads continues to raise doubts in terms of the capacity of the local governments to live up to the actual needs of future maintenance.
     Although municipal governments are responsible for municipal roads, historically DER-SP has been in charge of developing and maintaining
     the network, as explained by the ICR.


     • The outcomes of the technical assistance activities under the institutional strengthening component are likely to be sustainable as they are
     being incorporated into the operational processes in the state agencies.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)




a. Quality-at-Entry
   The project was seen at the time of appraisal as an opportunity for the Bank to re-engage with the state of Sao Paulo in the inter-urban
   transport sector (the last operation had closed in the 1980s). The project design relied on the government-led program and responded to
   the middle-income countries (MIC) agenda by providing high value technical support to a sophisticated client. At the time of appraisal,
   works under the Pro-Vicinais Program's 1st phase (2,100 km financed by the Borrower at a total cost of US$175 million) were near
   completion, works under the 2nd phase (2,550 km at a cost of US$117 million financed by the Borrower and with a US$180 million loan
   from the Inter-American Development Bank) were ongoing, and under the 3rd phase, bidding of civil works (3,100 km) was underway and
   was to be supported by the project.

   While most risks were assessed appropriately and mitigation measures were identified, one risk related to the preparation of complex
   information management systems was not identified at the time of appraisal and eventually led to delays in the institutional strengthening
   component. The cost estimates were underestimated at the preparation stage, as the condition of roads had deteriorated, thus requiring a
   different technical design, as acknowledged in the AF Project Paper (p.4). The fiduciary and safeguard arrangements proved to be
   adequate, while the project’s results framework had shortcomings (see Section 3).



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Supervision missions were carried out more than twice a year on average. The project’s mid-term review was advanced by about six
   months, as the disbursement exceeded 50% of the loan amount within the first two years of project implementation. Overall, the officials
   interviewed for the ICR confirmed that the presence of the Bank provided helpful technical advice, and that in some cases it was
   instrumental in ensuring a bidding process lead to the best choice of consulting firms (p.20). The project team was active in supporting the
   institutional activities, emphasizing the need to speed up the launching of technical assistance activities under the project; however with a
   one- year extension of the project closing date, the pavement management system was not yet operational at project closure. The ICR (p.
   20) points out that the Bank could have been more proactive in supporting municipalities on the sustainable maintenance mechanisms of
   municipal networks.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Borrower was the State of São Paulo, represented by its Finance Secretariat. The São Paulo Government's commitment was strong
   throughout the project implementation. It provided the necessary funding as per commitments. The Pro-Vicinais Program supported by the
   State was implemented in less than five years and improved about 12,000 km of municipal roads.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The State Road Administration (DER-SP) was the implementing agency of civil works under the program, and was also responsible for
   the coordination of information gathered from the State Secretariat of Planning and Regional Development (SPDR), the State Secretariat
   of Logistics and Transport (SLT) and the State Environment Secretariat (SMA) on procurement planning, certification of bills, progress
   monitoring and reporting on the indicators. The DER-SP performed well in the implementation of civil works and management of the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



   project (technical, fiduciary, and safeguards). However, the implementation of the Pavement Management System was delayed until late
   into the project execution period and was not operational by project closure. The SMA’s performance was rated by the ICR as highly
   satisfactory; at the same time, the ICR (p.25) notes with regard to the development of a pilot system of collecting site survey data that the
   strategy changed and the services were cancelled in the middle of contracts. SLT and SPDR dropped some of the original proposed
   studies, and it took time before the final scope of their components were defined. There were also some minor shortcomings in financial
   management (see Section 11 below). On balance, performance is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The results framework included two outcome indicators and six intermediate indicators, and most had baselines and targets set at
   appraisal (PAD, Annex 3). The outcome indicators were clear and measurable, though some intermediate indicators were not clear (i.e.,
   the agenda of public and private sector actions to reduce logistics bottlenecks agreed with key stakeholders) or attributable (i.e.,
   private/external capital mobilized for financing state investment programs). The ICR (p.10) adds that the indicators could have included
   an indicator to measure enhanced capacity of municipalities that are principally responsible for maintenance of municipal roads
   considering its importance in sustainability. At the time of the AF in 2010, the indicator on the average percentage delay in the execution
   of civil works contracts was found to be unsuitable for measuring the efficiency in the implementation of civil work contracts as these had
   a short execution period, and was replaced by the Bank’s core output indicator related to the number of km of roads rehabilitated.




b. M&E Implementation
   The ICR (p.10) reports that the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was implemented as planned. Semi-annual reports were regularly submitted
   to the Bank on time and in a proper form. The measuring result indicators included a satisfaction survey of 2,467 users of light and
   commercial vehicles. The user’s satisfaction survey was part of the study supported by the project to assess the impact of the Pro-Vicinais
   program, however, as the ICR p.15 explains there were challenges in insolating the impact of the road investments from other external
   factors, and the study was not finalized.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR does not report on the M&E utilization but it is apparent that it was used for the evaluation of the achievement of its project's
   objective.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   This was a ‘Category B’ project as rehabilitation and maintenance work was foreseen on existing roads and no significant negative impacts
   were expected. The PAD (p.23) reports that three Bank safeguard policies were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP4.01), Physical
   Cultural Resources (OP4.11), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). No new safeguard policies were triggered during AF (AF Project
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



   Paper, p.8).

   Environmental Assessment. The ICR (p.11) reports that the Bank accepted Brazil’s procedures for the identification, prevention, and
   mitigation of the environmental impact of road rehabilitation, and DER-SP hired an environmental specialist to ensure that proper procedures
   were closely followed. The ICR further states that there were no major impacts or safeguard compliance issues arising during project
   implementation. The ICR does not report on the mitigation measures, if any, implemented during the project duration, and does not have an
   explicit statement of the project's compliance with this Bank safeguard policy.

   Physical Cultural Resources. The ICR does not report on this safeguard, which was triggered at both appraisal and at the time of the AF.

   Involuntary Resettlement. The ICR p. 11 reports that Bank missions confirmed that the management of the risks and impacts identified
   under the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard policy was conducted in a satisfactory manner, and that there were no indigenous peoples
   present in, or with collective attachments to, the project area. There was no land acquisition or physical displacement because all civil works
   and support activities were conducted on lands situated within the existing right of way. The marginal widening of a road shoulder to improve
   road safety or drainage did not result in any adverse social effects on the land owners present in the project area. The ICR (p.11) also adds
   that very few indigenous peoples remain in the state of São Paulo - approximately 60,000 in all, or 0.2 percent of the total population - and
   most of these live in urban areas. None of the project roads are located in the vicinity of lands legally occupied or claimed by indigenous
   peoples.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: The ICR p.11 reports there were no procurement issues reported, and the procurement of goods, works, and services was
   carried out satisfactorily in accordance with agreed procedures. Procurement processes of complex information technology services were
   lengthy and meticulously reviewed by the supervision team. The Borrower (p.35) mentions that there were disagreements between the Bank
   and DER-SP related to the legal principle of public works and services contracts due to the differences between the Bank’s guidelines and
   the recommended procedures of the external Supervising and Advisor Organizations to DER-SP. This led to numerous discussions between
   the DER-SP procurement team and the Bank’s procurement experts, and eventually resulted in the delay of some bidding processes. There
   were no reported cases of misprocurement.

   Financial Management (FM). The Financial Management Specialist stationed in Brasilia periodically carried out formal FM supervision. The
   ICR (p.11) reports that the FM performance was downgraded from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory after August 2011 when some
   shortcomings were observed that included inconsistencies between the designated account balances presented by the project and the
   account balances observed by the external auditors through the state’s Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAFEM). Another
   shortcoming was the delay of DER in implementing the controllership department (hiring internal auditors).The audit reports were rated as
   satisfactory, although they were sent with delays, and in most cases included unqualified opinions about financial statements, except for
   2013, as mentioned by the ICR p.12 without further details.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                  ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                  Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



Risk to Development Outcome                Modest                             Modest                              ---
                                                                                                                  Due to moderate shortcomings
                                                                                                                  during Quality at Entry and
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                  Supervision (please, see
                                                                                                                  relevant sections).
                                                                                                                  Performance of the
                                                                                                                  Implementing Agencies was
                                                                                                                  assessed as Moderately
Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory due to delays in
                                                                                                                  implementation of the
                                                                                                                  institutional strengthening
                                                                                                                  activities.
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Two lessons from the ICR are highlighted with some adaptation:

     • There is a need for sufficient lead-time and resources for consensus building on introducing new management systems involving complex
     procedural changes. During the initial years of this project implementation, the internal deliberations on strategies and goals and definition
     of specifications for the management systems took significant time, leading to delays and subsequent extension of the project closing date.
     • Sustainability of local road assets could be enhanced through assisting state-level institutions in supporting local governments.
     While working with state-level government on implementing a program on rehabilitation of the local road network, there is an opportunity to
     be more proactively engaged at the local level to ensure sustainability of results.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR offers good insights into the project implementation experience and important details on the project design, activities, and
monitoring. Some aspects, however, are not clearly described or analyzed, in particular with regard to the institutional set-up on maintenance
responsibilities for the municipal road network (for example, the ICR makes statements such as “Although municipal governments are
responsible for municipal roads, historically DERSP has been informally in charge of developing and maintaining those networks” ). Lessons
are informative; though it would be advisable to maintain consistency in terminology for the types/classifications of roads between the text in
the ICR and corresponding lessons. The Project Cost and Financing Table (a) in Annex 1 has errors in cost calculation as the percentage of
appraisal estimate. The ICR also does not discuss if any issues which arose during implementation and does not report on the project’s
compliance with the Bank’s Environmental Assessment safeguard policy. The ICR omits that the project triggered a safeguard policy
Physical Cultural Resources OP4.11 and does not report on it. It also says (p. 11) that “Neither OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement nor OP
4.10 on Indigenous People were triggered by the project”, while OP4.12 was triggered at appraisal and at the time of the AF.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Feeder Roads Project(P106663)



a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
