/S~~(- s54/Q `7 - IIVD
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11777-    'j
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR
LOW INCOME CONMDUNITIES PROJECT
NAY 26, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11777-IND   Types (SAR)
Title: WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FO
Author: PAQUEO, V.
Ext.:82534 Room:A10015 Dept.:EA3PH
Population and Human Resources Operatious Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restrcted distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May, 1993)
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00     = Rp 2,050
Rp 1 million = US$488
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDAB           -   Austrialian for International Development Assistance Bureau
APBD            -   Regional Budget
BANGDA          -   Directorate General for Regional Development, MOHA
BANGDES         -   Directorate General for Village Development, MOHA
BAPPEDA         -   Regional Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS        -   National Development Planning Agency
BPKP            -   Central Audit Bureau
BUPATI          -   Kabupaten Chief Executive (District Head)
CAMAT           -   Kecamatan Chief Executive (Subdistrict Head)
CDC             -   Communicable Disease Control
Cipta Karya or
CK (DGCK)    -   Directorate Gen.ral for Cipta Karya, MPW
Desa            -   Rural Village
DEPKES          -   Ministry of Health (MOH)
DIP             -   Development Budget Allocation
DINAS/PU        -   Provincial Dinas Public Works
DPUK            -   Kabupaten Office, Public Works
DPUP            -   Provincial Office, Public Works
EH              -   Environmental Health
GBHN            -   Broad Guidelines of State Policy
GOI             -   Government of Indonesia
IBRD            -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IKK             -   Kecamatan Capital Town
INPRES          -   A development program funded through a special authorization by
Presidential Instruction
IUIDP           -   Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Kabupaten       -   Local (Level II) District Government
KANWIT          -   Provincial Branch of Central GOI Department
Kecamatan       -   Kabupaten or Kotamadya Administrative Subdistrict
KESEHATAN   -   Health
KK              -   Working Group



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
KPKN            -   Treasury
LCB             -   Local Competitive Bidding
LKMD            -   Village Development Council
MCK             -   Communal Washing, Bathing and Toilet Facility
MOF             -   Ministry of Finance
MOH             -   Ministry of Healti
MOHA            -   Ministry of Home Affairs
NGO             -   Non-Government Organization
NfT             -   Nusa Tenggara Titnur
P5D)            -   Bottom-Up Planming Process for Village Proposal
PDAM            -   Regional Water Enterprise
PIBAGPRO    -   Project Manager, Kabupaten Level
PIMRO           -   Project Manager
PKK             -   Family Welfare Organizaon
PODES           -   Potensi Desa (Village Level Data)
PPF             -   Project Preparation Facility
PUSKESAMS   -   Health Center
RepelitalPelita   -   Five-year Development Plan
RK              -   Special Account
Rp              -   Rupiah
RWS             -   Rural Water Supply
RWSG/EAP        -   Rural Water Supply Group/East Asia & Pacific
RWSS            -   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SEKWILDA        -   Provincial/Local Government Chief Administrative Officer
SK              -   Surat Keputusan, Decree of a Senior Official
SOE             -   Statement of Expenditures
SUSENAS         -   National Social Economic Household Survey
SWAKELOLA   -   Force Account
TCC             -   Technical Coordina:on Committee
TK I, II        -   Provincial and Kabupaten Levels
UWS             -   Urban Water Supply
VAP             -   Vllage Action Plan
VWSC            -   Village Water and Sanitation Committee
WE              -   Water Enterprises
WSS             -   Water Supply and Sanitation
WSSLIC          -   Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not othetwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i-
1PqDESM
WATER SUPPLY AND SAATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                              PROJECT
LoAN AD PROJECT SumAY
Borrowe:            Republic of indonesia
Amount:             US$80.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at he stadard
variable interest rate.
Pojet Description:  The objectives of the project are to provide safe, adequate and
easily accessible water supply and sanitation services and support
hygiene/health education to the poor in the unseved/underswved
rural villages and the communities around a few densely populaed
centers through sustainable and community-based arrangement.
The project would serve about 2 million people living in selected
commwnities in six provinces, including Central Java and five
eastern provinces (Southeast Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North
Sulawesi, Maluku and Nusa Tenggara Tinur) where the prevalence
of poverty still remains substantial. Project villages will be selected
on the basis of such factors as poverty status, incidence of water-
borne diseases, waer scarcity, water quality, infiant mortality and
willingness to pay for operation and manance costs.
The project has six components:
Direct Infrastructure Development Support
(a) water supply: construction and rehablition of water supply
facilities;
(b) sanitaon:   pronmion of low-cost sanition facilWies,
including provision of some material support for their
construction;
Institonal Development and Capacty Bulding Support
(c) hygiene and sanitation educaton (HSE):  HSE tranig,
promotional campaigns, provision of audio-visuals, and ote;



- Ii *
(d) baining   and   community/mistitutional  development:
strengthening capacity to plan and Implement community-based
approaches to water supply and saitaton (WSS);
(e) technical assistance:  support for project planning and
inplementation including monitoring and evaluation; and
(t) project management:  support for incremental cost of
managing project implementation.
Project sustainability will be ensured through community
participation and other design featres based on lessons learned
from past WSS experience.
Benefits and Risks:  Roughly 2 million people living in poor communities would benefit
from the proposed project. Better access to safe, accessible, and
adequate water supply is expected to reduce cost of water to
beneficiary households in terms of time, energy, and money.
Furthermore, with improved sanitation and hygiene practices, the
project is expected to have a positive and direct impact on health
and productivity. The above effects would especially be beneficial
to women and young children. At present, they are most exposed
to water-borne diseases, and they fetch water from sources at are
at present difficult to access.
The project is also expected to generate long-run Institonal
benefits in term2 of increased capacity of community-based
organiions to plan, construct, operate and maintain simple
village-level infrastructure. Included in the instiutional benefits is
the formulation of innovative and replicable approaches (applicable
on a large scale) to sustainable rural water supply and sanition
(RWSS) development. The expectation is that the project's
initiatives would eventually be incorporated into Indonesia's national
policies and programs.
The main risks are that institutional strengthening may not develop
fast enough leading to delays in the implementation of the project
in the agreed time frame. Implementation capacity particularly at
the village, subdistrict and district levels are relatively weak due to
lack of experience and skills which may hinder the communitY
development process. Coordination of activities is also seen as a
possible risk leading to further delays due to the complexity of
current bureaucratic procedures.
To counter the above risks, a programmatic or "strucured learning"
approach will be adopted. In addition, GOI will use Non-
government organizations (NC0Os) to support proj itImplementation



- Iiii-
in a wide variety of roles. More importy, durins proJect
preparations a strong sense of ownership and commitment has been
developed among Indonesia's policy makers, sectoral agencies, and
intended beneficiary communities through consultation and
participation.
Estimated Costs:                              Local    Foreign      Totl
--    (US$ million)
Water Supply                                  46.3        1.2       47.5
Sanition                                      11.9        0.6       12.5
Hygiene and Sanitation Education               4.3        1.4        5.7
Traiing and Comunity/
Insimonal Development                        14.5        1.6      16.1
Technical Assistance                           5.7        2.6        8.3
Project Management                             6.2        1.1        7.3
Total Base costs                           88.9        8.5       97.4
Physical Contingencies                         8.9        0.8        9.7
Price Contingencies                           15.5        0.7       16.2
Total Cost La                             113.3       10.0      123.3
Fnancing Plan:                                Loal    Foreig        Total
- -    J(US$ million)
Government of Indonesia and Communities       42.5        0.8       43.3
IBRD                                          70.8        9.2       80.0
Tota Financing                            113.3       10.0      123.3
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year           1994   l99S    1296    1222    1221    1222
Anmual                       6.0    14.0    20.0    20.0    16.0     4.0
Cumuaive                    6.0   20.0    40.0    60.0    76.0    80.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.
Map: IBRD No. 24800
la Inclusive of taxes and duties esfimated at US$6.7 million equivalent.



- iv -
1  TBE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR  ............                 .      1
A. SectorBackground         1..................................             I
B. Sector Orgaization and Rural Water Supply and
Sanitationnitativ  ....les .............................              2
C. SetrIssuesandConstraints .............................                   5
D. BankStratandLending in theSector                  ..                     6
B. Itenation Donor Agency NGO Support ................... .                 8
F. Raionae forBank nvolvement ...........................                   9
2  TE PROJEcT .......................................                         11
A. ProjectObjecives ....... I I ..................    11
B. PrciplesofProjectDesign .............................    11
C. ProjectDescription ...............................                      12
D. CostEstiates ...............................                            17
E. FinancingPlan ................................  20
3  PROJECT  MPLiEMENTATION ............................    21
A. Implementaton Approach . ..............................                21
B. Instiutlonal rfangemen and Processes .....................    24
C. RoleofNGOs ..................................                          28
D. Funds Channeling andAdm        ion .......................    29
E. Operaion and Maintenance and Cost Recovery  ........ .........    31
1hi report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in February 1993 and
was prepared by a team led by Mr. Erdogan Pancaroglu (Task Mager, Sr. Sanitary Engineer)
and Vicen Paqueo (Economist). Other mission members include: All Memon (Sr. Financial
Analyst); Vijay Jagannathan (Water and Sanitation Specialist); Carol Bal (Operations Assistant);
Ef*aim Jimenez (Procurement Specialist); Richard Pollard (RWSGIEAP Program Officer); and
Julie Viloria (Institutional and Community Development Specialist). Peer reviewers were:
Mr. Anthony Van Vugt (EA1IN); Mrs. Ivy H. Cheng (EA2PH); Mr. Andrew Macoun
(FWUWU); and Ms. EllenSchaenld (EC3HR). Mr. Samuel Lieberman (Principal Economist,
EA3PH) provided valuable asistance in the review of this report.  Ms. Sharon Newelt,
Ms. Tracee Graham, Ms. Daphne Glass and Ms. Phytlis Williams provided support for the
production of this report. Ms. Marianne Haug, Director A3DR) and Ms. Himelda Mainez,
Chief (EA3PH) have endorsed the project.



F. Roleo Wome         ................................                   33
0. Implementation Plan and Schedule   .........................    34
H. Procurement            ...............................    36
I.    Disbursements      ................................                40
J. Accounts,Audits, and Reports ............................    41
K. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision .....................    42
4 PROJETBEDNEITS ANDRISKS ..............                                    45
A. Project Benefits ..............................                       45
B. Environmental npact. ........................ .                       46
C. Indigenous Population ...........................                     46
D. Sustainablity.................................... .    47
E. Riks ..............  47
5 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..O
1.  Ihe Project Areas
2.  List of Project Areas Identified for First Year Implementation
3.  Project Approach: Demand, Cost Recovery and Poverty Focus
4.  Conununity Participation and Training Progran
5.  hnplementation Agencies and Organization Charts
6.  The Water Supply Component
7.  The Sanitation Component
8.  The Hygiene and Sanitation Education and Water Quality Surveillance
9. Technical Assistance
10. Detailed Cost Estimates
11. Monitoring, Evaluation and Feedback Mechanism
12. Terms of Reference
13. Implementation Plan and Schedule
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15. Supervision Plan
16. List of Documents Available on Project File
17. Sanple of Consolidated Project Financial Statements Formats



TEE WA TMR SUPPLY AND SAATION SECTOR
A. SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1        Indonesia, the fourth most popualous nation in the world, has achieved
substantial economic growth during the past decade. It has succeeded in dramatcally
reducing poverty, both from the standpoint of the incidence rawe of poverty and the total
number of poor people. Despite rapid urbanization, about 125 million of fte 180 million
(1990) population still live in the rural areas, and about 14 percent of this group have
incomes below the poverty level, according to GOI estimates. Recent World Bank
estimates for the same year (1990) are higher (23 pet'ent).
1.2         Poverty reduction was greatest in Java, while provinces in the Eastern
Islands experienced lower rates of decline. The government has made poverty reduction
in those islands a very high priority.
1.3         Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage and Service Level: A key
handicap for poor people, particularly in rural areas, is the lack of water supply and
sanitation (WSS) facilities. It is estimated that about 90 million rural residents still remain
unserved or underserved by basic water and sanitation services. While the urban WSS
subsector winessed relatively rapid development and increased investment during the past
five-year-plan periods, progress in the rural subsector has lagged seriously behind.
Consequently, the coverage rate remains very low.
1.4         There is little reliable information about the proportion of the rural
population with access to a 'safe" water supply and 'proper' sanitation. However, data
fromn a household health survey carried out by the Mintry of Health in 1988 and covering
seven provinces indicated that in the ural areas 30 percent of the population had a safe
water supply available. Likewise, mral sanitation coverage was also estimated to be only
about 25 percent. A high percentage of the rural population does not have hygienic
facilities for the disposal of human excrement. (These figures reflect the coverage levels
as of 1989.)
1.5         Even for those with safe water avai!able, service levels are not uniform
Water supply varies from 30 Ipcd (liters per capita per day) for public facilities, such as
standpipes, to 60 lpcd for services with house connections. On average, this range of
levels is considered appropriate for rural areas. The services generally consist of piped
systems (surface or groundwater), protected springs, shallow wells with hand pumps, deep



-2-
well hand pumps, rainwater collectors, dug wells, and household water filters. Sanitadon
services include household pit latrines of various types, MCKs (communal wuhing,
batiing and waste disposal facilities), and school toilets.
1.6         Households not covered by public WSS services deal with the problem In
various ways. A large percentage dig their own wells, many of which are unsafe. About
55 percent of the rural communides rely on unprotected anid usually coaamint  open
dug wells. Other households fetch water from long distances, with women and children
carrying most of the burden. Finally, those with cash buy water from commercial
vendors. But for many of the poor there has been litle choice but to use an unaafe water
supply such as unprotected -wells and streams. With regard to sanitation, households in
underserved conmmunities reiy on rudimenty latrines or use the watercourses.
1.7         -'4elfere Consequences of Sectoral Inadequacies. The underdevelopment
of the WS'- .ctor and lack of health education have together had serious welfare
consequences for the people. Lack of access to clean water, inadequate sanitation
facilities, and unhygienic practices interact to produce considerable public health risks.
These risks apply especially to the poor in rural areas, particularly women and children,
and to a significant degree to the low income groups in urban kampung areas.
1.8         Those public health threats manifest themselves as a high Incidence of
waterborne diseases, including various diarrhoeal diseases, which remain a msjor health
problem. Diarrhoea is endemic and accounts for about 19 percent of the total death. One
out of every three children and one out of every 10 adults are reported to be suffering
from diarrhoea and related conditions. Health saics indicate that consumption of
contaminated water and contact with a pnluted environment contribute to the heavy
incidence of other waterborne, excreta-carried, and parasitic dise-ses. Further, dirrhoeal
diseases, which affect the poor the most, can have a particularly negative effect on low-
income people who suffer from protein-calorie malnutrition.
1.9         Another effect on welfare relates to real household income, since families
in unserved and underserved rural villages must spend a fair amount of their resources to
get water. Data from the starter villages shows that the dme and money cost is
substantial. In Central Java and NIT starter communities, for example, villagers have to
walk half a kilometer each. In some villages where water is purchased, about Rp 40 per
day is spent by each household on average. In economic terms, a higher cost of access
to an adequate water supply is equivalent to lower real household income.
B. SECrOR ORGANZTON Am RUL WAR SuPPLY
AMD SA ATION INMTIA
1.10        The WSS sector has been a focus of considerable attention by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI), donor agencies, and non-govermenta  organizations
(NGOs). It has also been the recipient of substantial investments from the central
government and, to a limited extent, local goverments. Foremost or WSS iniiatives Is
the INPRES program for rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS), which will be



-3 -
discussed below. NGOs like CARE Indonesia have developed interesting (albeit,
small-scale) RWSS projects that successfully built on community demand and responses.
1.11        Since the conunencement of the five-year development planning efforts
(Pelita) in 1969, provision of water supply and sanitation has been central to government
policy. This policy commitment was expressed by the state in broad terms that guided
sector development policy and accorded priority to low-income communities,
underdeveloped areas, and areas with poor water resources that had a high incidence of
water-borne diseases.
1.12        Despite these policy objectives, the emphasis in the WSS sector has been
given in practice to urban areas. Moreover, in the provision of resources, higher priority
was accorded to water supply over sanitation, particularly in the rural areas.
1.13        The INPRES Program:  As part of its effort to accelerate rural
development, GOI adopted a policy supporting construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities in the rural areas. Accordingly, an INPRES program for water and sanittion (a
specially funded grat program of the President to help local governents constuct water
and sanitation facilities) was established in 1974. This INPRES program in praial terms
constituted govermnents rural water supply and sanitation progran. Hence, the following
discussion is focussed on the above program.
1.14        Total expenditures from GOI resources reached about Rp 123 billion by the
end of Repelita m (1979-1984), with INPRES accounting for about 80 percent of the total
budget of the RWSS subsector. Besides INPRES, other sources of fiuds for RWSS
included the national development project budget (I)P), the provincial governent budget
(APBD), and external assistance. The DIP and APBD contributions, however, were quite
small. For the Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, 1981 to 1990, the national coverage
targets were set at 60 percent for rural water supply and 40 percent for mral sanitation.
1.15        With respect to external assistance for rral water supply and saniaion
development, the amount during past Repelitas was less tha 10 percent of donor agencies'
total aid to Indorsia. This small percentage of total aid and also of total water supply
funding is partly attributable to donors' emphasis on cost recovery as a design principle
which was difficult for GOI to meet. There were, to be sure, bilateral agencies that did
not require cost recovery, but their projects were small scale and consisted mostly of
technical assistance.
1.16        Planning and Budgeting Under INPRES. The national RWSS program
under INPRES was intended to follow a 'bottom up-top down' planning process involving
every level of government.  In this regard, the INPRES program called for local
governments to submit proposals for community WSS projects, specifying villages to be
covered and the design of proposed WSS facilities. As conununity proposals moved up
to higher levels of goverunent, they were changed In accordance with political, financial,
and technical considerations. Ultimately, at the end of the planning and budgeting process
central government was solely responsible for setflng the anmual physical WSS targets, the
unit cost of WSS schemes, and the programn's budget.



-4-
1.17        Inplementation of approved WSS projects was, however, the resporsibity
of local governments. Once local government proposals were approved, budgetary
allocations were then made directly to the kabupaten (district) governments, which as
discussed below were responsible for implementation of the govermnent's RWSS program.
At this level, the ewommunity proposals were again subjected to further project
reformulation, dependirg on kabupatens' priorities and their available resources.
118         A salient feature of the INPRES program was tuat fiuds were rigidly
earmarked according to detailed instructions and guidelin. Moreover, monitoring and
evaluation were geared towards ensuring completion of physical construction of WSS
facilities according to physical targets, with very little attention paid to the quality of work,
operations and maitenance and the felt needs of the beneficiaries.
1.19        Organizational Aspects.  In accordance with GOI regulations No.
PP 7/1987, No. 14/1987, and Law No. 5/1974, the provision of water supply and
sanittion is basically the responsibility of the kabupaten (district) governments. However,
due to local governmet's lack of istitutional capability, thcal expertis and resources,
central government agencies provided technical guidance and funding for WSS projects.
1.20        Until the end of Repelita IV (March 1989), the Ministry of Health was
responsible for the planning and technical guidance of rural water supply and sanitation
programs. Then, at the beginrng of Repelita V (April 1989), responsibility for the sector
was changed. The government broadened the responsibilites of the Ministry of Public
Works to include construction of rural water supply and sanitation projects. Accordingly,
the Directorate Genera of Hua Settlements (DG Cipa Karya) became te technical
agency responsible for water supply and sanitation development in both urban and rural
areas. The Ministry of Health, however, remained responsible for the development of
community health and hygiene education and promotion programs as well as for the
surveillance and monitoring of drinking water quality nationwide. Instittional
strengtheing and enhancing village development through community participation has
remained the responsibility of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
1.21        The above mentioned change in responsibilides coincided with the
government's decision to drastically reduce INPRES funding. Becaue of the poor
performance of the subsector, resulfting in inefficient use of resources and frequent failure
of facilities, GOI cut INPRES funding to very low levels towards the end of Repelita IV.
In this regard, current INPRES allocations are limited to providing counterpart budgets for
externally assisted projects, which are small-scale initiatives and many of which consist of
technical assistance.



-5-
C. SECTOR ISSU  AND CONSMUWn
1.22        Assessment of the INPRES program revealed that it did not work very well.
Targets were not attained; the coverage rate for water and sanitation at the end of Repelita
IV was far below the targets set by GOI. The quality of facilities constucted was also
generally poor; most did not work well. The WSS facilities that were built, particularly
for sanitation, were often not used. In fact, a large percentage of the WSS schemes ceased
to operate shortly after their construction. These failures were especially true for projects
such as rain water collectors, hand pumps, and other water supply systems with moving
parts that required regular maintenance and repair. These unsatisfactory results were the
reason GOI drastically cut its funding of the RWSS program under INPRES.
1.23        The problem with the INPRES program lay fumdamentally In the way it was
organized and in Its attempt to achieve ambitious and unrealistic targets, given existing
insutional and human resource constraints. This organizational factor was compoun"
by the fact that the program lacked a strategy and no program of action was developed to
loosen those constraints. The human resource constraints include shortages of trained
manower (particularly staff auned to community-oriented projects), technical expertise,
and management and supervisory skills, particularly at local govenmnt levels. In short,
inadequae appreciation of these constraints and absence of provision for strengthening
institutional and human resources led to selecting overambitious targets and failing to
achieve them.
1.24        In evaluating the results of the INPRES program for RWSS, the following
Issues are specifically noteworthy. First, as noted above, implementation of fte INPRES
program for RWSS was driven by pressure from the top to achieve ambitious physical
construction targets. As a result, schemes were built to meet those targets, even at the
expense of their quality and sustainability. A related issue is that GOI approached the
problem of water and sanitation development by providing communities with grants to
fnance WSS schemes but without providing for operations and maintenance.
1.25        Third, these grants were rigidly tied to uniform, standsrd designs. The
choice of service level and design was dictated by governmeent bureaucrats and their
thnical experts; and comnmnity preferences were not adequately taken into account.
Despite the rhetoric of "bottom up" planning, the program was in practie supply-driven
and micro-managed by the central govenmment. Ihis practice, in the absence of a strong
commitment to empower communities and local govermnents, was a naral consewquence
of Indonesia's highy centralized budgetary system. As a result, original village proposals
were changed in the planning and budgeting process in ways that did not sufficiently
account for community's felt needs and local circumstances. Furthermore, becuse
coordination among the involved agencies was weak, in many cases the changes were
inconsistt Ihe result was that funds and materials provided by the progran supported
service levels and designs that often ignored not only village needs and preferences but
also sound technical requirements.
i.26        Fourth, inadequate criteria and processes were used to select villges. The
selection process for villages did not ensure that they would have the commitment to bear
the burden of maintaining and operating the facilities constructed for them by the



-6-
government. There was little in the structre of the programn that would motivate
beneficiary communities to reveal the extent of their commitment to sustained operations
and maintenance. In addition, in selecting villages the program did not focus on poor and
underserved conumunities. It was mistakenly assumed that 'blanket" coverage of villages,
regardless of income levels, would automatically address the WSS needs of the poor.
1.27        In summary, despite GOI's ambitious objectives little progress was made in
RWSS during the International Drinkdng Water and Sanitation Decade. However, GOI
remains deeply committed to rural WSS sector development and is looking for more
efficien and sustainable programmatic alternatives. Its support for the proposed project
is based on this recognition. GOI has recently intensified its poverty alleviation efforts,
and rural water supply and sanitation are key conponents of this poverty strategy. GOI
has also emphasized the need to increase resources to correct the imbalance between urban
and rural areas.
D. BANK STRATEGY AND LENING IN TRE SECTR
1.28        For the past decades, the Bank has been actively involved in assisting
governments increase underdeveloped communities' access to safe water and basic
sanitation, including Indonesia.
1.29        Bank Leading for Water Supply in Indonesia. To date the Bank has
finuaced four freestanding urban water supply projects, amounting to a total commitment
of about US$124 million. In addition, under most of the recent Bank-fmanced urban
development projects, components have been included to construct or rehabilitate municipal
water supply systems. This was the result of GOI's decision to prepare and implement
urban development in an integrated fashion, called he Intgrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Program (IUIDP).
1.30        lhe tkrusts of these urban vater supply operations have been to provide
drinking water to a large portion of the urban population involved; to establish and support
semi-autonomous water enterprises to run the systems installed; and to achieve a
reasonable degree of cost recovery through tariff mechanisms.  For most of these
projects, Bank funds were re-lent to water enterprises under subsidiary loan arrangements.
1.31        Implemeion of these urban water supply projects has been slow,
primarily because of constraints on the institutional capacity of the agencies involved.
Also. establishment of water enterprises has been a challenging task. Management of
technical assistance has not been satisfactory, although experience with cost recovery and
the provision of house connections has recendy started to be improving.
1.32        Bank's involvement in rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) in
Indonesia had to be postponed until now for several reasons. These reasons include major
instiional weaknesses in the Ministry of Hbalth which, until recently, was the sole
responsible agency for RWSS; lack of implementation capacity in local governments to
cary out their assigned RWSS responsibility; and the absence of consensus in government



-7-^
on making RWSS beneficiaries responsible for operations and maintenance of the
contucted facilities.
1.33        Building on the experience of other donors' assistance for RWSS, albeit on
a limted scale, and evaluating the resultu of instituional strengthening efforts made for
local governments under a number of Bank loans over the years in other subsectors, such
as irrgation, rural roads, health, and education, the Bank has concluded to lend support
to GOrs RWSS progran. Of course, the poverty-targeting approach adopted under the
proposed project has been another major consideration in this decision. ITis shift in Bank
support for RWSS in Indonesia is also in line with similar initiatives taken in some other
countres in recent years.
1.34        International Experience and Lessons Learned.  hnplementation of
RWSS programs has faced difficulties not only in Idonesia but also in some other
developing countries. Evaluation of the past performance of RWSS programs around the
world in a cross section of developing countries indicates some common thematic failures
in providi  adequate services:
X     Projects based on standad design criteria have often become expensive and
have been wuable to either increase coverage or even sustsin service to
existing populations;
3     Formal sector istiions (water utilities, water companies, and public
works ministries) have managed their infrastrcture at low levels of
operaional efficiency; and
*     Subsidies for water and sanitation services have had highly inequitable
impacts.
As a consequence of the above factors, service provision targeted at poor communities has
seldom achieved its stated objective.
1.35        The inital effort of Bank sectoral policy was to search out solutions through
"appropriate technology" policies, in which attempts were made to lower investment costs
and make the systems more affordable by the poor. Ihis implied also providing a lower
level of service to poor consumers. The hand pump, improved pit latrines, and public
standpipes were advocated as solutions for targeted interventions and incorporated into
several project designs in the 1980s.
1.36        With the benefit of hindsight and aided by several more evaluation reports
and studies, weaknesses in this approach became apparent. First, there was an underlying
assumpton that this "appropriate tedhnology" could be delivered through existing
operationaily inefficient insttions. Second, the presumption that the poor would be
satisfied with a bureaucratically mandated level of service proved to be incorrect. The
poor, in fact, were invesing time and cash to acquire privately provided water, and had
definite preferences as to service levels and willingness to pay. Services provided,
fterefore, had to be determined on the basis of what the beneficiaries wated and were
willing to pay for. Fnally, experiences from diverse countries suggested that under



-8 -
suitable incentive structures, community-based organizations in low-income villages and
slums were more successful in tackling local operational problems, such as system
breakdowns, recovering operaions, and mahntece costs, when compared to large water
and sanitation utilities.
1.37        These findings resulted in far-reaching design consequences in sectoral
projects aimed at peri-urban and rural communities. First, the role of the engineer was
redefined as that of a facilitator for technical assistance. This facilitator was charged with
providing the widest range of feasible technical options and of ensuring quality
construction in the water system chosen by the project's beneficiaries.  Second, the
involvement of beneficiaries in the project cycle was increased; they were made
responsible for choosing service levels and for operating and maintaining local water and
sanittion systems.    Third, ;he role of "software facilitation," which included
stregthening institutions and providing training and technical assistance, was increased
correspondingly. These steps were taken to ensure that adequate capacity could be built
within comnmnity-based organizations, that attitudes of government staff could be
reoriented, and that the monitoring and evaluation system allowed project managers to
anticipate implememation problems.
1.38        The designs of the Bank's rural and peri-urban projects over the last decade
reflect the evolution of these ideas to their present form. Sectoral projects of the past five
years (Sri Lanka, India, Paraguay, China, Pakistan, Philippines, Brazil) all include, to
varying degrees, comnitq involvement and substantially higher outlays on human capital
development than traditional urban water and sanitation projects.
1.39        In many ways the sectoral issues and constraints faced in Indonesia exhibit
the same thematic failures noted in other Bank operations. It is not surprising to observe,
therefore, that the design of this project (see Chapter II B) combines the lessons learned
by GOI and by the Bank through its global sectoral experience.
E. INT AIONAL DONOR AGENCY AND NGO SuppORT
1.40        Prior to 1980, external assistance to the rural water supply and sanitation
subsector was provided by a limited number of agencies. UNICEF began its operations
in nural water supply and sanitation in 1979 and UNDPIWHO had one project in East
Java, which started in 1976. USAID has provided assistance in manpower development
in RWSS and the Netherlands Government has been involved in RWSS development in
West Java since 1976. With the commencement of the Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade in 1980 and the commitment of GOI to the Decade's goals, an increase to the
RWSS subsector was provided primarily through expanded operations by UNICEF and
UNDP/WHO. AIDAB joined the donors by stardng a RWSS project in Nusa Tenggaz s
Barat in 1985. An international NGO, CARE, initiated a village water supply prc',m
which has become the core of Its Indonesia's rural development activities. The UN
agencies have been most active in the subsector and UNICEF contributed the largest
proportion of all external assistance. There were no investment projects fbwced by the
Bank and ADB, and all of the extenally assisted projects in the past have been relatively
small.



-9-
1.41        Towards the end of the Decade, the need to formulate projects leading to
sustainable development began to gain weight as many appeared to be unsuccessful. As
a result, the external agencies began searching for models with community-based
approaches in RWSS development. Institutional weaknesses of the local governments and
lack of operation and maintenance were also seen by the donors as important issues.
However, in the absence of a sound GOI policy giving guidance and depicting the role of
the external agencies, each donor agency formulated its own strategy with different
arrangements for planning and implementation. Although a number of pilot programs
produced successful results, there was no attempt to incorporate the results into a national
program. External support agencies currently active in the rural water supply and
sanitation activities include UNICEF in five project areas designatd by GO(; AIDAB in
Nusa Tenggara Barat; and UNDP/World Bank Community Water and Sanitation Project
(INS/88100S) mainly in urban and peri-urban areas.
1.42        Preparation of the proposed project has been supported by the joint
UNDP/ World Bank Water and Sanitation Program through the Regional Water and
Sanitation Group for East Asia and the Pacific (RWSG-EAP) and the UNDP funded
INS/88/005 project. During project implementation, the program will continue to support
the project in developing approaches and methodologies for training and community
participation and in establishing mechanisms for monitoring, evaluation, and feedback.
A description of the support to be provided by the RWSG-EAP is given in Annex 12. In
addition, a new UNDP project proposal for funding from the Indonesia IPF (Indicative
Planning Figure) has been prepared and is expected to facilitate the continued level of
support from the UNDP/World Bank Program.
F. RATIoNALE FoR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.43        The Bank considers safe water supply and adequate sanitation facilities to
be basic goods, and access to them to be a key element in poverty alleviation. Similarly,
Indonesia's public policy accords high priority to the provision of those basic goods as an
element of the goverMnent's poverty alleviation strategy. For reasons discussed in
Section C above, however, government RWSS policy has not worked well due to serious
weaknesses in the way the RWSS program was approached and the lack of institutional
capacity and needed human iesources to implement RWSS programs. To be able to
achieve RWSS objectives, there is undoubtedly a need to develop better alternative
approaches.
1.44        This project responds to that need. Through this project, the Bank will help
GOI design and implement a low-income RWSS approach based on the above lessons from
experience not only with its WSS lending operations but also with that of donor agencies.
1.45        The Bank can help GOI overcome key bottlenecks that have impeded
sustied improvements in water and sanitation in poor rural communities. Specifically,
the trust of Bank's assistance will be to make new RWSS approaches replicable on a large
scale. Other donor agencies have developed and tried some successful RWSS projects,
but they have remained small-scale pilot programs and have suffered from lack of
replicability.



- 10-
1.46       Finally, this project complements the Bank's efforts to strengthen
Indonesia's community health and nutrition program. IThe Bank has been actively assisting
GOI in this area in the past through its Nutrition and Community Health I and i1 projects
and currently through the Third Community Health and Nutrition Project (CHN III).



- 11 -
2
TM PROJECT
A. PROJECr OBECnVFS
2.1         The objectives of the project are to provide safe, adequate and easily
accessible water supply and sanitation services and support hygiene/health education for
poor communities in underserved and unserved rural villages outside Java and in
communities around a few densely populated districts in Java through sustainable and
community-based arrangements. Provision of WSS, supported by essential hygiene and
sanitation education, will improve the health status and productivity of the poor
communities.
B. PCmLES OF PRoJECr DESIGN
2.2        The project design has the following key features: (a) targetivg of poor,
u-nderserved villages; (b) community participation; (c) demand-driven interventions; (d)
cost recovery; (e) programmatic or structured learning approaches; (f) human resource and
instiional strengthening; and (g) use of NGOs. These elements in combination are
expected to achieve sustainable improvements in the water and sanitation conditions and,
hence, in the welfare of people in unserved and underserved villages and low income
communities.
2.3         Targeting will be carried out systematically, using methodology that ensures
consistency with GOI's overall strategy in identifying poor villages. In itself, however,
targeting will not be sufficient to ensure that the project will acually yield the intended
benefits. For this to happen, beneficiaries should be provided services t'iey wantd are
willing to pay for. Three implications follow. First, beneficiaries should be motivated to
reveal their demand for water and sanitation services. Second, there should be a sufficient
range of service levels for them to choose from. Finally, there has to be an institutional
mechanism available for deciding which services to provide and how operations and
maintenance in the post-construction phase would be managed.
2.4         Based on past experience, GOI has made commnity participation a
cornerstone of the project design. The project, within existing institutonal, economic, ad
physical constraints, will develop processes that empower comwmnities to make informed
choices and give them a voice in the entire project cycle. Accordingly, a communt-
based approach provides service level options on the basis of the beneficiaries' perceived
needs and willingness to pay. The fundamental planning tool for demad-driven,



- 12-
community-mmaged project design and implementation will be the Village Action Plan
(see paras. 3.10-3.14).
2.5        In formulating their village action plans, communities could choose any WSS
system, provided that they shoulder all costs in excess of GOI's amounced grant or budget
ceilings. (Communities whose costs fail below these ceilings will be asked to conribute
a certain percentage of those costs.) At negotions, GOI gave assurance that It wiU
fpwlh to the Bank, not lter than February 28 In every year, a schedule, accephable to
the Bank, of budget ceilings for the grants the government will provide to particpating
vilages for the construction of water supply schemes during the followngfiscal year.
2.6         Furthermore, the project design calls for recovering the cost of operation
and maintenance from beneficiaries. The implication of cost recovery on the poverty
objective is discussed in Annex 3, which summarizes information gathered from starter
villages regarding costs and willingness to pay for water. The critical finding is that,
given the currently high cost of obtaining water in underserved rural communities, the
estmated willingness to pay, even among the poorest villages, is sufficienly high to cover
operation and mainnance. Consequently, the use of a willingness-to-pay criterion is
unlikely to impede achievement of GOI's equity objective.
2.7         Adoption of the above principles implies that flexibility is needed in project
planning and implemeion because it is difficult to predict effective community denmmd.
Consequently, the project will follow a programmaic approach (see Annex 3). Ihis
approach rests on a process in which lessons leaned from the earlier phases of project
execution will be incorporated into the plmning and implementation of subsequent
activities. To support this structured "learning-by-doing" approach, an effective
monitoring and evaluation system will closely and systematically monitor project
implementation and apply lessons learned to designing future schemes the project would
support.
2.8         Fmally, the project includes substantial training and technical assistance
components. These components, in addition to NG0 participation, are intended to
supplement inadeque existing institutional and local capacities to implement such an
innovative, complex, and large-scale project with the objective of replicability.
C. NRoJEcr DESCRTON
2.9         The project would serve about 2 million people living in selected mral and
urban low-income communities in six provinces-five outside Java (Southeast Sulawesi,
Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, Maluku, and Nusa Tenggara Timor) and one in Java
(Central Java). In selecting these provinces, provincial level poverty status has been the
main consideraion except for Central Java. A description of the project provinces and list
of project districts are given in Annex 1, and locations of project provinces are shown in
map IBRD-24800.



- 13 -
2.10        A lesson larned from the starter villages for the first year project
Implemention is that using poverty levels (as defined by BANGDES village data) as just
one of seven criteria for village selection does not adequately target investments to low-
income communities. Consequently, villages to be included in fiture phases of the project
will be screened to ensure adequate targeting of investments to low-income communities.
The initiWal methodology is to merge existing socioeconomic data sets of SUSENAS
(national socioeconomic survey) and PODES (village data), and use the information to
predict average incomes of the 1,414 villages proposed for inclusion in the project.
Villages in which average incomes are substandally above the provincial poverty levels
will be excluded and replaced by other eligible candidates. The lessons learned from the
Batch I exercise will be used to further Improve poverty targeting in subsequent batches
of villages.
2.11        Once project villages have been "screened" for poverty, they will be ranked
for eligibility for project assistance based on other selection criteria. Ihese include:
incidence of water-borne diseases, water scarcity, water quality, infant mortality, and
willingness to pay for O&M costs. The final approval of subprojects will also be subject
to the preparation of a village action plan (para. 3.11). GOI gave assurance at
negotatons tha these village selecion criteria wUll be used In Iplmenting the project
(ara 5.2).
2.12        Although the project will focus primarily on mral areas of the six provinces,
a small pilot progrm aimed at developing the approach and improving the water and
sauitation services in poor communides located around a few densely populated centers and
in selected districts of Central lava i also included in the scope of the project.
2.13        The project will comprise two broad components, each of which will contain
several sub-components as follows (costs include contingencies):
1.    Drect Ifrastcture Development Support:
(a)   Water Supply (US$60.6 million). ITis sub-component would provide safe
water to about 2.0 million people in about 1,400 communities in six
provinces. ITh water supply component will include construction of piped
systems (spring capture, groundwater, and surface) and non-piped systems
(protected dug wells, protected springs, shallow and deep wells with hand
pumps, rainwater collectors, and appropriate systems). In addition to new
works, about 10 percent of the water supply component would provide for
rehabilitation of existing facilities.
(b) Sanitation (US$16.0 million). The project will provide appropriate
sanitation facilities to approximately 1.7 million people through a process
of demonstration, training, and promotion to encourage beneficiary and
private-sector participation in constructing and financing sanitation facilities.
Eight different low-ost, fully subsidized latrine designs will be built at a
number of homes as part of promotion and construction training for local
artisans. As a stimlus for latrine construction by individual households,
about 100 latrine pans, manufactured of acceptable material, will be



- 14-
provided as a grant to each village that receives project funds for water
supply construction. In addition, a limited number of communal latrines
will be built in those communities that select them as the preferred technical
option (estimated to total about 300 communal facilities).  Three
institutional sanitation facilities will be completed at schools, health centers,
and religious institutions in each community, and sullage (kitchen liquid
waste) disposal, drainage, and solid waste disposal schemes will also be
demonstrated and promoted.
2.   Instiutional Development and Capacity Building Support:
(c)   Hygiene and Sanitation Education (US$7.0 million). This component
would provide a program of hygiene and sanitation education activides to
approximately 2.0 million people covered by the project through promotion
and mass media campaigns on hygiene, water, and sanitation-related issues;
orientation and training of health and project staff, school teachers, NGOs,
and conmnunity groups including cadres;  provision of audiovisual
equipment, educational materials, and communication packages to selected
health offices, health centers, and the schools covered by the project; and
water quality surveillance and monitoring.
(d)   Training and Community/Institutional Development (US$20.4 million).
This will support the WSS program through training, primarily aimed at
community-level homes and institutions and development of community-
based approaches. Interventions will also be undertaken to strengthen
institutions mainly at the kabupaten (district) level and below to improve
project planning, management, and technical capabilities in both government
instutions and NGOs.
(e)   Technical Assistance  (US$10.2 million). The project will include a
significant amount of comprehensive technical support for project planning
and implementation, including monitoring, evaluation, and studies. At the
central level and in each province, project secretariats will be established to
manage technical assistance inputs, monitor and steer project
implementation, and plan future investments. Studies to be fiuded under
technical assistance include: poverty and water demand studies; evaluation
of project impact on participating communities; the effectiveness of the
sanitation "stimulant" strategy; preparation of project completion report;
KAP (knowledge, attitudes and practices); women in development studies;
and other related studies. The above studies are described in detail in
Annex 9.
(1)   Project Management (US$9.1 million). This component will provide
support for incremental project management costs.  These include
expenditures directly related to the management of the project such as
travel, consumable materials, honoraria, meetings and office operational
cost, but exclude salaries.



- 15-
2.14        A key feature of the project Is the participation of NGOs in project
implementation. Appraisal of the project indicated that success of the project would
critically depend on the extent to which NGOs are involved in project Implementation and
their effectiveness In playing this role, as the capacity of local governments is constrained
In termn of skilled staff and reaching all the underserved or unserved communities.
Consequenty, government has shown great interest in and openness to NGO participation.
In money terms, the activities that could be carried out through NGOs are estimated to be
in the folowing ranges (in million US dollars):
Minimum      Maximum
a. Civil works (labor mainly)               2.3          7.3
b. Procurement of goods and                 2.8          9.7
materials (for WSS infrastructure)
c. Supervision/community services                        7.8
(facilitaton at desa level)
d. Kecamatan and village training           3.0          9.7
8.0        34.5
Ihe acual amount would depend on the details to be included in Village Action Plan
(VAP). Details of NGO roles are discussed in paras. 3.16-3.17.
2.15        Training and Instittional Strengthening: About 90,000 participants
during the course of the project, including central, provincial and district government
officials and village participants. Ihe trainees fall into four categories: (a) project
coordination staff, (b) project mnagement staff, (c) project field staff, and (d) village
committee members responsible for the water and sanitation planning and implementation.
Train of village participants accounts for about 90 percent of the total training costs.
2.16        With several sectors and four line agencies involved, training programs have
to avoid duplication of effort (i.e., they should not include traidng already covered by
existing programs of the four sectoral agencies). An inventory of the existing training
capacity will be prepared by project managers to ensure that the proposed training strategy
provides only incremental training support to project participants.
2.17        With total investments of about US$13 million in te training component
alone, a major concern of the project management will be to maintain a suitable quality
of training programs on the scale proposed. Apart from providing adequate funding, there
are other important issues. The first relates to the fornulation of a conications
straegy. The project deals not only with a large number of trainees, but also with people
having very different expections about the project:
*     The largest group is village residents, who need managerial and technical
skills in order to operate the infrastructure being created by the project.
For this group, training in participatory techniques is needed, focusing on
those persons who have the most to gain from the project (such as village
women, local community-based organizations, and even persons wanfting
house connections).



- 16 -
*    A second, but perhaps equally important, group includes the engine I of
local public works, who have to present communities with the technical
options and be prepared to modify or propose innovative solutions.
     The third group consists of the facilitators (BANGDA, BANGDES, and
MOH officials and NGOs), who function as the bridge between the
communities, bureaucratic processes, and the engineers in charge of project
design and construction.
2.18        Project management workshops have been scheduled at the central,
provincial, and kabupaten levels. These workshops and the experience gathered from
completing village action plans will provide materials for formulating a coherent strategy
for communicating the project messages to all benpilciaries.
2.19        The second issue relates to the choice of training methods and selection of
training materials. The project will use training modules designed for adult learning to
encourage problem solving by community groups. Trainees, encouraged through
participatory training, will base their learning on shared life experiences and "learning by
doing.' The considerable volume of training materials already t.l ed in other water and
sanitation projects in Indonesia will be included in this project. At negotiaons, GOI gave
assurance that a trainig p' in and schedule to  pwlement it will be fudshed to the Bank
by October 31, 1993 and dt  Xth government wU imlement this program as agreed wih
the Bank.
2.20        Technical Assistance: Consultants and NGOs will be recruited to assist ad
advise the project implementation agencies at the central, provincial and district level. The
total of 1,660 person-months are proposed to provide consulting services throughout the
project period. The technical assistance (TA) component will consist of four main areas
of support: (a) coordination and implementation; (b) training and human resources
development; (c) administration and fincial management; and (d) monitoring and
evaluation. Specific studies as sunumized in (para. 2.13e) and described in Annex 9 will
also be undertaken as part of the TA component.
2.21        At the central level, a small management advisory TA team wil be
established to support GOI's coordination teams and working groups. This TA group will
consist of both international experts and national experts. The international team will
consist of the following short-term and long-tenn experts: project coordination and
management, training, monitoring and evaluation, hydrogeology, water quality, hygiene
and sanitation education, and finance. The functions of the first three posts are self
explanatory: support to project management, training, and monitoring and evaluation. The
Finance expert will assist in the analysis of cost recovery procedures, processing the
approvals and financial transactions vithin the project including contract approval and
claims for reimbursement. The national expert group will consist of the following
disciplines: water supply and sanitation, hydrogeology, water quality, hygiene and
smitation education, community management, training, finance, women in development,
and monitoring and evaluation.



- 17-
2.22        At the provncina level, similar small support group will be established in
each project province, attached to the Bappeda, consisting of five national experts: Project
management/coordination, water supply and sanitation, hydrogeology, monitoring and
evaluation support, and financial. At district level, three-person teams will be established
consisting of the following skills: community development (tea i1 leader), water supply and
sanitation, survey technician. In addition, one field officer will be deployed in each
kacaman.
2.23        Details regarding the TA component are given in Annex 9. Terms of
reference (TOR) for three key consultants (Project Management Expert, Training and
Community Development Expert and National Policy Management Expert) have been
prepared and reviewed at negotiatdons. TORs for other consulants will be completed with
the assistance of these three consultants. Selection of the three ky consultans was
conpleted by negotiation. Signing of contracts with them will be a condition of loan
disbursement against expenditures for civil works and constcion materials.  The
remaing consultants will be employed on or before February 28, 1994.
D. CosT ESTIAT
2.24        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$123.3 million (Rp 252.8
billion), including contingencies.  The estimated costs by project component are
summarized below in Table 2.1, by province in Table 2.2, and by category of expenditure
in Table 2.3. Detailed project costs by year, purpose, and components are given in
Annex 10.
2.25        Baseline Costs. Baseline costs are estimated at May 1993 prices. Civil
work costs for water supply system and sanitation facilities have taken into consideration
the appropriate tchnologies with low-cost solutions, and the unit costs for labor and
materials have been agreed between the Government of Indonesia and the Bank. Office
equipment, furimture, computers, and vehicles costs are based on current prices for similar
inported or locally available items. Education materials costs are derived from prices
currently being paid for similar items under ongoing health and water supply projects.
Costs for interational and in-country consultants are based current rates for similar
qualified experts. Costs for water supply design, surveys, and study awards are based on
recent experience from comparable technical assistance of other health and water supply
projects. Short-term in-country training costs vary widely depending on the tpe of
training being given and its location, and they are in line with the government guidelines.
Project management costs are based on standard government allowances for salary,
honoraria, travel, per diem, operations and maintenance, and consumable materials.
2.26        Contingency Alowances.  Physical contingencies (US$9.7 million)
represent 10 percent and price contingencies (US$16.2 million) 17 percent of the total
baseline costs. Physical contingencies of 10 per^ent have been applied for all components.
Price contingencies have been calculated at a pro,jected increase of 5.5 percent per year for
local costs and at 3.1 percent per year for foreign costs for all categories throughout.



.18 -
2.27        Foreign Excdmge Cost. Foreign exdchne cost am estmated at US$10.0
million (reesent  about 8 percen of total projec costs). Mm projet is basically a
labor-intensive opeaion involving comnitq pardpation, and all training would be in-
country. The foreign exchange percenages are estmated as folows:
(a)   civil works (done esentially by local and community labor) - 0 per;
Lb)   wat  supply maeras, education materials, and frture  -15 pIer
(c)   equipment and inteation  consulat                   - 90 percent;
(d)   vehicles                                            - 5. percen;
(e)   In-country consultanb , training, supersion,
and project mangment (except honoraria)            - 10 percent;
(t)   design, surve, and studies                          - 25 percet;
(g)   honoraria                                            -0 percent
2.28        Taxes and Duties. Indirect  and duties are esmaed at Rp 13.8 bilion
(US$6.7 million) based on the current 10 percent value added tax (VA7) on all cagrW
except technical assistance, honoraria, and meetings.



- 19 -
Table 2.1: PROIWC Cosr SUMMARY BY COMINNT
, ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      F -               .w
%
Lem  F"USST    MmAl   F9tace"    TOWcdB
1. Wate supply           94,931.4   2,43.6   97,336.0     46.3   1.2      47.5      2        49
2. Sanitation            24,312.9   1,28S.7   25,598.6    11.9   0.6      12.3      5        13
3. Hygbee d  ain          8,773.9   2,912.7   11,686.6     4.3    1.4      5.7      23        6
4. Turning anid oom ly/
4nstidp                29,7.3   3,306.2   33,081.7      14.3   1.6      16.1     tO        17
S.Techila                11,770.4  5,180.    16,950.8      5.7   2.6       8.3     31         8
12,740.3   21380   14,873        6.2   1.1       73       14        7
TaS BASEUNfi <:OSIS1=S4                 1     7      l5* a9  58u 2 M   A 2 0
-IXbydeal itls ~18,232.2       1.2;11z5 J *  1
Pdi:e o   t_             31,773.7   1,439.9   33,215.7    15.5   0.7      16.2      4        17
Tolal                      PROJEO COSIS 32l 2342 S3042  527&559    Da  123  =2        I        2
Table 2.2: PROJECT CoST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT BY PROVINCE
(US$ nUllion Incuding cmondgeuice)
etal          E  Nuam   No=h    Ceal   Sou_et   Cetl
ha   Mau   Teoam    sulawast  Sulmi  Sulaws   Jabta  Tald
1. Wate supply                  12.5    4.7              9.9       12.8     9.5        13    60.6
2. Sanitao                       2.8    1.4      2.7      2.8       3.7     2.6        0.0    16.0
9. != ain ed Sntio
3. Hj~siens and               0.7    0.3      0.5      0.6        0.7     0.6       3.6      7.0
4. Trning and COO wrni
stnal developme               4.5    2.4      3.2      33         3.5     3.4       0.1    20.4
5. Tedhnil asstac                1.0    0.9      0.9     0.9        1.0      1.0       4.5    10.2
6. P      neme                   2.1    1.1      1.3      1.2       1.3      1.2       0.4     9.1
TOWal PROJECT COSTS                        u      J5  1         1| _                    18 3 
Tab  2.3: PROJECT Cosr SUMARY BY CATGORY OF EXPDITURE
S5       Tatd
LZoim   - a         Total     Locd   FeCCIP       TOW    k_i>    Cods
1.  nvetmntCoats
A. Civil works          51,327.9     0.0   51,327.9    25.1    0.0      23.1       0       26
B. Goods and equipment:
1. Equipienand
Ifitu an            556.2   2,379.2    2,935.4    03      1.1      1.4      79        1
2. Consrucion
maeials          62,271    1,261.9   63,S38.0    30.4    0.6      31.0       2       32
3. Educedioa
atrias            3,792.7    S98.8    4,391.5      1.9    03       2.2      14        2
4. Vebls               80.8    734.0    1,614.8      0.4    0.4       0.8     50         I
5. Comnpau             120.0    540.0      660.0     0.0    0.3       03      90         0
C. Technial assne.
1. Conulass evic   14,98.6   5,109.2   20,091.8      7.3    2.5       9.8     26        10
2. Deign, vys and
studie            6,389.6   2,129.9    8419.5     3.1    1.1       4.2      26        4
3. C   u 
and   eIO         10,9   1,201.2   12,012.1        5.2    0.6      5.8      10        6
D. Tranig               18,846.4   2,094.0   20,940.4   9.2    1.0       10.2     10       10
E. PBbet n    _        12,339.2   1,211.4   13,550.6   6.0    0.6       6.6       9        7
Towl BASE ZB cami 182322.4  l9A    199582.0   88.9 tI         B                100
Fw  conXge   18,Z3Z.2    0      ~~~~19,958.2  8.                               IN. U 1
Pncscontencies         31,7.7   1,439.9   33,215.6    15.5    0.7       16.2       4       17
Total}R01}3CtCOSIS                   ZQAL I  252.755.8   IL        1U0    12          I       i;



- 20-
E. FINANCaNG PLAN
2.29        'Me total project costs of US$123.3 million equivalent would be fmanced
by a prposed loan of US$80.0 million equivalent (92 percent of foreign mad 62 percent
of local expenditures), covering 65 percent of total project costs or 69 percent excluding
reserved procueim  (US$1.3 million equivalent) and taxes (US$6.7 million equivalent).
The government and the selected connunities would finace the remaining costs of
US$43.3 million equivalent (35 percent of total project costs hicluding taxes).
Table 2.4: FiNANCING PLAN
(US$ nmillion)
IBRD
GOl and                  Sbares
RD      Comunides       Total       (%)
Civil work                   16.9       13.9         30.8         55
Equipmnt and fiunitue         1.4        0.1          1.5        90
C rnStnKIon materil          18.9       15.5          34.4        55
Educationmateria              1.4        1.1          2.5         55
vehicles                     0.0         0.9          0.9         0
Couers                       0.0         0.4          0.4          0
Conmutants srvices           11.0        0.0          11.0       100
Design, swveys and studies   4.8         0.0          4.8        100
Commnity servces and suapvon  6.7        0.0          6.7        100
Tnmning                      6.4         5.3          11.7        55
(a) Honoraia, tavel and
office expenses          4.6         0            4.6        100
(b) Meetings, workhop and
0&M costs                0           3.0          3.0         0
Unllocated                   7.9         3.1          11.0       72
TOTAL                  80.0        43.3        1233         65
2.30        To expedite the compledon of project preaton and raining cdviis,
GO has reqeswted an advance in the amount of US$1.25 million from tfie Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), which has been approved by the Bank.



- 21 -
3
PROJECT EMLEWATO
3.1         Successftil Implemention of the project will depend on a clear assigmnent
of responsibilities for the execution of project ts; workable instiuional arrnemens
and proses for planning, furd hanmeling, and approval of project activites; a realisdc
action plan and schedule of activities; practical procurement and disbursement
arrangements; manpower support and strengthening Institutions; a reliable targetng and
selection procedure; enforcement mechanisms for cost recovery; and clar supersion,
monitorig, and evaluation mechanisms. The design of ail of hes elements, which had
been he focus of project preparation and appraisal, will support community participation,
demad-revealing processes, and the programmac approach.
A.            AIION AMOACR
3.2         The main fure of the imp ion approach is tdat local governmnents
(kabupaten or Level II government organizaions) will be responsible to execute the
proposed project It wlll be implemented largely through exising staff and insuional
aanements, with funding channeed through DIP and INRS. The community-based
approach to project development would require sustained involvement by beneficiaries and
close interaction with the local government agencies responsible for implementation. The
assig   t of ative and implem        ion responsibilities of the local gove n,
which are mmarized in Fig. 3.1 and Table 3.1, have been worked out in accordance
with aurt regulations governing the chanmeling of finds. Details of these iituonal
arrangements can be found in Annex S.
3.3         To ensure ta the progrmi  c approah will work, flexbil3ty in project
implementaon is essenia and supervision wUl need to be strengtened. GOI wiil also
establish a monitoring and evaluation system to assess project progress and include lessons
learned into the planing nd implemenion process. In accordance with a structured
latning or progrmmatic approach, inveents during the early years will be carefuily
monitored and evaluated and, based on ta expeence, plans for the subsquent years will
be fine-tmed or modified to improve project performce.



-22 -
Figue 3.1:
*fwd     PmJecZ AdnIlnAuff  WSSPUC
xmm
~~~sne           jim                  asmaxn
ni                 E                     li
m I             IL              eti  d I           TX I
a ?#"Ion .             .           $       . at    on timing       Jo  C.LJ
lid   ti .        ad atpt  ..     unction                         [ 1U ..
.~ ~ oi aL,  .s                                                             I  . ''    * :l   
IL~~~ i 4t      it                            TX it
VA             I'                t 
h,ati
'I. ~ ~             .
I~ ~ I.II
tx X         t~lS; In                       lawudas 
*Curtioal                         oiw       . 4ltC e ude winasi   __Cinai
land wto laIai[                    andtf .           .  .umh      rlias3hol
Co  't    I_ i                                                          1
oasL1                                             .
* .wi"ties



n * .IiD              
& a
5            5~~~~~L1
I:f @tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it
'U~~~~~~~~~~~~~*t 



- 24 -
B. IqnmUoNAL aRRANGEME   AND PROCESSES
3.4         Kabupaten and lHgher Levels: At the kabupaten (district) level, the
management responsibility for project implementation rests with the Bupati as head of the
level II (kabupaten) government. As mentioned earlier, Presidential Decree No. 14/1987
assigns management responsibility for project implementation to the Bupati. Project
implementation activities at Level II will, therefore, be managed by sectoral agencies at
the district level, including the Dinas PU II (public works district office for construction
and technical assistance), Dinas Kesehatan II (district health office for hygiene education
and water quality surveillance and control), Bagian Pembangunan or BANGDA (regional
development for institution strengthening), and BANGDES (conmnunity participation and
development). BAPPEDA II (the district planning agency) will coordinate the above-
mentioned activities and submit a consolidated kabupaten project plan to GOI through
provincial BAPPEDA I (Level 1) for funding. Figure 3.1 and Annex 5 show involved
agencies under the Bupati and other details regarding institutional arrangements for project
implementation.
3.5         At the central level, GOI has formed a functional coordination committee
composed of top-level (echelon 1) officials and chaired by BAPPENAS to coordinate and
provide guidance to the WSS sector on broad policy matters. In addition, a Technical
Coordinating Conmmittee has been established to provide routine coordination and guidance
to the three working groups that have been set up for the design and preparation of the
proposed project. The GOI agencies involved in the above arrangements are: DG Cipta
Karya, Ministry of Public Works, which is responsible for technical assistance and
guidance of local governments with regard to physical implementation of WSS schemes;
DG Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health, Ministry of Health, for
drinking water quality and health/hygiene education; and DG BANGDA, and DG
BANGDES, Ministry of Home Affairs, for institutional and administrative arrangements,
community participation, and operation and maintenance.
3.6         Ihe Ministry of Health's Directorate General for Communicable Disease
Control and Environmental Health will be the executing agency for the project. This
executing agency is responsible mainly for loan administration. Assisting the executing
agency will be a central project secretariat. During project preparation a Central Project
Secretria consisting of four full-time government staff supported by a full-time consultant
management experts and several short-term consultants and one support staff was
established within the Department of Health to manage project preparation. The
Secretariat will continue to facilitate implement?.ion at the central level. The Secretariat
is headed by a full-time Executive Secretary and reports to the Technical Coordinating
Committee which is chaired by BAPPENAS. The Secretariat will coordinate project
activities between the central and provincial levels including procurement of goods and
services for the central level, placement of staff for training overseas, administration of
project financial accounts and managing the Special Account, and monitoring and
evaluation. A Management Advisory Group of local and international specialists recruited
as necessary will continue to serve as project experts. At the provincial level, Project
Secreariats have also been established under the chairmanship of the BAPPEDAs and with
representation from the provincial offices of Health and Public Works. The Provincial
Secretariats will report through the Central Secretariat to the Technical Coordinating



- 25 -
Committee at the central level (para. 3.5). They will provide provincial level project
execution and have specific responsibility for programmatic project planning based on
feedback from the implementation process, provincial procurement of goods and services,
and project monitoring and evaluation. Local consultant experts will be recruited as
necessary to advise the provincial secretariats in speciflc areas. At negotiatons, GOI
agreed to maintain during project  plementation already establshed central government
set-ups. GOI also furnished to the Bank during negotiatons the following documents:
(1) provIcial decrees (SKs) signed by the Governors of the six Project provinces,
establishing imWlementation arrangements, including staUngforproject management: and
(I) kabupaten decreesfrom most of the kabupatens where thefifty-two starter vflages are
located. These documents were found acceptable to the Bank.
3.7         Community Level:  To be eligible for project financing, candidate
communities will prepare village action plans (VAPs). Preparation, review, and approval
of these plans will be conducted through the usual regional and sectoral bottom-up/top-
down planning process involving a series of steps from the village up to the central level.
The community will be involved in all phases of the project (before, during, and after
construction of facilities) through the village development council (LKMD), which is
GOI's well established community-level organization led by the village head (Lurah/Kepala
Desa). This organization, which is GOI's chosen vehicle for community development, will
be responsible for informing and mobilizing the community. NGOs will provide assistance
in the preparation for VAPs, where needed.
3.8        Indonesia has an administrative system extending to the village level. The
LKMD is a community-level organization led by the village head (LurahlKepala Desa).
It receives grants from GOI and provincial governments to execute simple works at the
village level. The LKMD is organized in 10 thematic sections, including the PKK (Family
Welfare Movement) and neighborhood sections (Rukun Warga/Rukun Tetangga). The
village, water and sanitation committee, which will assume responsibility for WSS
development, will be established within this framework of local government and
community-based organizations. The details of implementation are expected to vary from
community to community. In some, with active PKK groups, women's groups are likely
to take the lead; in others, religious, cultural, or artisan groups could play this role.
3.9         When a community has indicated its interest, the village development council
will establish a village water and sanitation committee (VSWC), which will assume full
responsibility for WSS development. Box 3.1 illustrates the step-by-step process of
producing, approving, and implementing community activities (for more details, see Annex
4 on community management and participation). The village water and sanitation
committee, with the assistance of project staff from the kabupaten and kecamatan, will
conduct a village survey that will be used as the basis for formulating a village action plan.
3.10        The project staff assisting the village and its water and sanitation committee
is expected to work out the technical options and discuss these with the community along
with their cost implications. In this connection, comnunity members will be asked how
much and in what form they would be willing to pay for investment and operation and
maintenance costs. Communities will be briefed on the cost recovery-related policies
governing project funding. Accordingly, the village water and sanitation committee, with



- 26 -
Box 3.1: PROCESS IN WSSLIC CommuNTy DEvEI PMNT MNAGEMENT
Project Design and Preparation at Government Level
Projet Planning, Mobilization and Trainrig
e  Mobilize GOI project staff at district lcabupaten) and sub-district (kecana)tan) le
*  Mobilize NGO partnets including traines
 Re-orientate project stff to project concepts and apptoaches
*  Coordination planning and negotiation of roles and responsbilities
e Train project staff with focus on staff at sub-district level
Site Selection
* Kabupaten and Keamatan selection
*  Selection of villages based on project criteria for long List form seoondary data
* Selection of villages for short list from primary data obtained from confirmation visits
to the villages
A.    Community Preparation (Pre-Construction Phase)
Stage 1:   Project Iatroduction to Community
Stage 2:   Establishment of Village Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC) Fornation
Stage 3:   Development of Village Action Plan
Stage 4:   Training of VWSC
Stage 5:   Implementation Part 1: Resource Mobilization, Hygiee Educatio Program
Part 1 (and Income Generating Progamn, if apprpriate)
B.    Construction of Facilities (Constructon Phase)
Stage 6:   Implementation Part 2:  Construction of Physical Works; and Hygiew
Education Program Part 2
C.    Opdion of Mintenance (Post-Construction Phase)
Stage 7:   Operation, Maintenance and Expansion
Monitoring and Evaluation
Follow-up Activities
assistance of the project staff, will then fmalize its village action plan.
3.11         A GOI-approved village action plan that is acceptable to te Bank will be
a requirement for project fuiding of village water supply and sanitation scheme
construction. To be acceptable to the Bank, a Village Action Plan must contain specific
information and agreements, as shown in the Village Action Plan Pormat (checklist) In
Annex 4. in general terms, such a VAP must show:



-27 -
(a)   VWSC formation;
(b)   approval by the village head, the Camat, and BAPPEDA II;
(c)   project justification: assessment of the water and sanitation needs of the
community;
(d)   selection of WSS design, including technical options considered;
(e) sanitation investments identified for private and public financing;
(f)  traiing and hygiene education requirements;
(g)  investment and O&M costs;
(h)   sources of funding (community, INPRES desa, and others);
(i)   agreement regarding community funding of O&M and capital costs in
accordance with project guidelines;
,i)   arrangements for collection of community contributions and their salf-
keeping and accounting;
(k) arrangements for monitoring and evaluation of project performance; and
Q)   implementation schedule, including timetable for resource mobilization.
3.12       Details of the contents of an acceptable VAP and the process of preparing
and approving them are described in Annex 4.
3.13       To make the village action plan an effective implementation tool, the Bank
will conduct an ex-post review of WSS schemes constructed under the project and Ihe
corresponding VAPs. The review will based on a random selection of at least about 10
percent of participatin villages. To facilitate this review, the Provincial Project Secretariat
wilH keep in a central location and make available to the Bank's supervision mission village
action plans and records of their implementation status. GO! gave assurances dwng
negoaons what the project wsi fund constuon of WSS shmes only Ifpaicipatg
cmmnitie have approved vllage acdons plans prepared on criteria and guidelines
acceptabk to the Bank  Further, GOI frndshed to the Bank evidence tt the WiUage
Action Plansforbforty    ow of theffly-wo starter villages were complted. GOI also
co?gined ta six VAPs are wader finalzation and wsl be provided by June 15, 1993.
3.14        Village action plans are expected to be subnitted in April each year tirough
te usual GOI bottom-up planning process (known as PSD) whereby village-iatd
proposals are discussed.  If a plan is approved, it is estmatd that funds for
implemeion would become available to te community about 15 months after the
submission of the village action plan. During this waiting period, training and hygiene
education acivities would be provided under the project.



- 28 -
C. ROLE OF NGOS
3.15        Government recognizes that cufrently it acks -ie capacity to implement the
project by itself. Consequently, government at central and provincial levels has agreed to
involve qualified NGOs and other private orgarizations. The appraisal indicated not only
dtt GO is highly comnmitted to NGO involvement, but also that NGOs are quite interested
in participating in project implementaion. Appraisal documented actual experiences of
NGOs assisting in the implementation of government projects and identified possible legal
arrangements whereby NGOs could participate in the WSSLIC project.
3.16        Qualified NGOs are expected to provide under contract local resource
persons to work with project staff and communities, as needed, on:
(a) training on community organization and development;
(b) preparation of village action plan (VAP);
(c)   hygiene and sanitation education;
(d)   promotion and assistance in latrine construction;
(e)   construction of simple water supply schemes (type C non-piped systems);
and
(f)   monitoring and evaluation.
3.17        At the village level, NGOs will act as facilitators and resource persons to:
(a) inform the commumity of the project and help establish VWSCs, develop
and train community leaders and members regarding their roles and
responsibilities;
(b)   identify together with the community its problems and needs through focus
group discussions and community self survey;
(c) prepare VAPs, form agreement with the VWSC on project components,
locations, costs, repayments and responsibilities for funding approval;
(d) carry out construction of simple water supply and sanutation schemes;
(e) organize and train water user groups and assist these groups particularly
women in managing O&M and other resource mobilization activities
(production and livelihood activities;
(f)   assist health staff on hygiene and sanitation education activities; and
(g)   monitor implementation of project components and activities and assist
communities and project staff in preparing project reports.
3.18        In addition, NGOs will also be contracted to carry out specific training
programs for project staff and smaller NGOs, special studies, action research including
KAP studies, and impact evaluations under various components of the project. While
government commitment to NGO participation is high and while there exist reasonable
modalites for involving them, issues regarding the specific arrangements by which NGOs
could participate (e.g. individually or as part of a consortium of non-government
organizations) as well as recruitment procedures and selection criteria still need to be
resolved. It is agreed, however, that contracl arrgements for employenet of NGOs
should be flexible and should not set out to undermine their effectiveness. Assurances



- 29 -
were given during nego6ons rby GOI that cofrirms the above roles of NGOs in project
mlementation. Further assurance was obtainedfrom GOI at negotiation that selecion
and recritment for and contracts with NGOs will be on terms and condions acceptable
to die Bank In additon, as part ofthe conditons ofloan disbursement aganst dvil works
and constrcion materia&, GOI will employ NGOs needed to b*kment starter projects,
which wotud involve abow 52 villages.
D. FuNDS CHANNEIG AmD AMnTIA            ON
3.19        Arrangements for channeling of funds (see Figure 3.2 and Annex 5) have
been designed with the objectives of ensuring responsiveness to demand, decentrWalization,
flexibility, speedy disbursement, a unified budget, and accountability. There will be three
sources of funds: IBRD, GOI, and community contrbutions. IBRD fiuds will be
channeled ltrough the Ministry of Finance and Bank Indonesia to provincial offices of
Bank Indonesia for local payment. Contractors will be paid specified percentages of
conract amnounts based on the disbursement arrangements, as they submit progress
payment clains.
3.20        For GOI funding (IBRD loan and counterpart fumding), both seoral DIP
and INPRES fnding will be used. DIP is the central GCI project budget, while INPRES
is a fiuding channel based on presidential instruction. The DIP will be used for all
components to be implemented by sectoral agencies at the central, provincial, or district
government level. It will be used for complex schemes (Type A and some Type B
schemes) and activities of sectoral ministries and the Ministry of Home Affairs involving
monitoring, supervision, manuals, and studies. INPRES will be used for all componens
to be implemented by Level II govermnet autonomously. INPRES will be generally used
for simple schemes (Type B and C), community development, and most of institutional
development including training. For classification of water supply schemes, see Annex
6.
3.21        DIP funds will be channeled through the provincial Public Works/Cipt
Karya office (PU/CK) and Provincial Health office to the Dinas PUICK and Dinas
Kesehatan at TK II. INPRES funds will be channeled directly by the Ministry of Home
Affairs to TK HIand will be passed on to involved technical agencies. DG BANGDA and
DG BANGDES will also use INPRES funds for the central, provincial, and district
supervisory, monitoring, and evaluation activities as well as to Bappeda TX II and Bagian
Penbangunan for coordination activities.
3.22        In order to ensure smoother fund channeling, the arrangements made by
GOI include the following:
(a)   aange payments ftrough special accounts (RK) at Level I;
(b)   ensure timely availability of GOI funding (DIP, INPRES); arrange multiple-
year allocation of DIP and INPRES;
(c)   minimize the number of occasions where funding from more than one
source will be needed for a single village (more type C schemes);



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .A . . .  . .. ... ..l
a                                                                                     Li~~~~
&       {                                i>                           5 -------- i
El..
Po
*  I'll  'iii   I..  ~~~~Ui...........11.....



- 31 -
(d)   give responsibility for DIP and INPRES-funded project components to the
same officis at the TK ll level;
(e)  inform implementing agencies in advance about the availability of budget;
(f)   accelerate avalability of INPRES fimds through early appointment of
pimbagpros, whose late appointment was the principal cause of delay in the
past;
(g)   reduce time lag in the budget approval process, especially for technical
assistance including training; and evaluate the funds flow experience of this
project after one year with the objective of introducing fiuther reform.
3.23        However, a mechanism for funds flow below TK II down to the village level
is yet to be clearly defined. This in turn is dependent on related procurement
arrangements and supporting disbursement documentation, which are still being defimed.
001 is considering the use of either ordinary contracting or SWAKELOLA (force
account), with certificates of completion based on agreed standard costs. GOI provided
the Bank at negotiations with proposals for ensuring smooth channeling of project finds
to the Implementing agencies at the TX  I and village levels and subsequently to the
contractors.
E. OETITAoN AND MAINTEANCE AND Cosr RECOVERY
3.24        To ensure continued operation of WSS schemes, GOI policy calls for
benficiary communities to pay for the costs of operation and maintenance. It also calls
for contibutions to the investmen costs of these schemes. All cost recovery payments and
subsidies will be identified and agreed during the village action plan appraisal process for
each village.
3.25        Cost Recovery Principles and Guidelines: The responsibilities of the
beneficiary communities for O&M and capital cost recovery will be based on the
following principles:
(a)   Operation and Maintenance (O&M):
(i)  The costs of both routine O&M and replacement of assets with less
than seven years of expected life will be covered by conununity
contributions. Depending on the decision of the community
concerned, INPRES and other sources of funds could also be used
to cover asset replacement costs.
(ii)  When a participation comnunity is unable to meet the cost of
unexpected major repairs from Its own resources and such village
has collected at least 75 percent of the amounts due from households
for O&M as set forth in the VAP, the district government will
supply fuids from the general budget to cover the cost of such
repairs.



- 32 -
(b)   Capital Costs: Communities will cover at least 4 percent of the total capital
costs of the construction of the WSS schemes in cash.
(c)   Household seeking private water onnections will pay the full cost of fte
services provided, including the capital cost of connection.
3.26        Collection of Village Contributions: Under terms of the village action plan
to be signed by each village council, the counc1t, through Its village water and sanitation
committee, will assume responsibility for collection of the agreed cont.-ution towards
capital costs (cash and in-kind), the monthly charge for operation and maintenance, and
the required payment from INPRES to fhIl any gap. Estimated operation and maintenance
wosts will also be established in advance. However, each village council will collect
monthly water and sanitation charges for each family that uses public facilities based on
acual operations and maintenance needs. In case of house connections, full incremental
costs will be incurred directly by the homeowner and full operation and maintenance costs
will be paid based on estimated water consumption (without use of meters), which would
be agreed with the viilage council. The village council will ensure that excessive water
consumption (including leakage, if any) through private house connections does not lead
to excessive operations costs or water shortages. Each village water and sanitation
committee will maintain a bank account in the nearest town or other methods, acceptable
to the Bank, for depositing monthly collections from the community and the agreed part
of INPRES, if needed.
3.27        These collection arrangements are expected to be workable because projects
are based on communuity participation with prior agreement through the village action plan
by villagers to pay operating and maintenance costs from their personal resources andlor
earmarked INPRES allocation. Past experience with water bill payment by private
consumers in Indonesia has been good; village councils enjoy respect in rural communities
and can deal with delinquent consumers; in cases of non-payment, villages will have
committed themselves to allocate a part of their annual INPRES grants to fill any gaps; and
enforcement support can be obtained from TK II, as needed. The experience gained from
surter villages will be used to modify the collection approach in villages in Batches II
through IV.
3.28        An assurance was obtatnedfrom GOI during negotations that (a) village
actions plans wiU include O&M and capital cost recovery contributions from the
benfciary communies based on the above principles; and (b) disict governments wil
issue relevant decrees for authorizng the colecdon of these community contibutions In
accordance with the above described mechanism
3.29        Starter village data Indicate average routine O&M costs to be 0.8 percent
of household monthly income, while sustainable O&M expenses are estimated at 1.4
percent of average household income. When water and sanitation are combined, the
figures are 1.3 percent and 1.9 percent respectively. These levels of expenditure are
considered affordable for target households. Options for villages unable to cover O&M
include: (a) modification of technical design so as to reduce costs; and (b) postponement
of construction until shown to be feasible. The details are discussed in Annex 3.



- 33 -
F. RoLE OF WOME
3.30       Role of Women: To ensure active involvement of women in all phases
of the project cycle, The Institutional Development and Capacity Building Support
component of the project will promote the role of women by carying out pilot
schemes in a few selected areas with the view to wider implementation. The project
will support specific activities in five key areas including:
(a)  training in planning and implementation of water supply and sanitation
facilities;
(b)  hygiene and sanitation education activities targeted to women and their
children;
(c)  operation and maintenance including resource management activities;
(d) gender training and information for project staff and community leaders;
and
(e)  assistance through specific skill and management taining to increse the
scope for production and livelihood activities related to the operations
of WSS facilities.
Women's activities will be carried out and integratd within the framework of the role
of women's groups (Imown as the PKK). Another option is to organize other infonnal
networks available at the community level.
3.31       Eercises to promote "learning by doing" will be undertaken to test the
above pilot schemes, first in about nine villages in five kabupatens of Central lava,
Central and Southeast Sulawesi, and Maluku provinces. To support these schemes,
the project will establish a technical support service for women. Operational linkages
will be established and strengthened with other gender-based components of Bank
projects in Indonesia including: (a) the Third Community Health and Nutrition (CHN
111); (b) the Third Non-Formal Educaion (NFE  O); and (c) the Ground Water
Development Project (GWDP). Assurances were obtained fiom GOI during
negoatons ta it ilU prepare and jkrdsh to the Bank by Februay 28, 1994 an
Action Plan to provide training in project implementation and initiate pilot schemes to
ehawce women's role in water supply and santation related programs.  The
innoadve pilot schemes for women wiUl be caried out first in a few selected
commwuit  (noted above); the outcomes wil be moniored and evauate4 and
sufid activies will become part of the village acdon plans where appropriate.



- 34 -
G. IMPlE;M ATION PIAN AND S
3.32           In line with the progmmatic approach, G0I has fomulated an indicative
plan for a five-year proJect period and a detd  Invesment plan for the first year of the
project. The latter includes detailed village action plans in the starter areas. Project
investmnts after the first year will be planned and deigned in detail, stage by stage as tho
project is implemented.  Table 3.2 presents the proposed implem                 on  coverage
schedule. In accordance with the programmaic approach, the schedule is only indicative
and is subject to revisions, depending on project experience and lessons learned. The
implementaton schedule for the life of the project is sum mied in Figure 3.3 below.
Additional details of the project's schedule of activities, particularly for the fis year, are
given in Annex 13.
Table 3.2: IMPLEMEATION COVERAGE SCHEDULE
_ _ _ _-.             ,  -                               S         ..  11    _   I 
No.          Povin           93/94   9419S   95/96   96/97   97T98    TO      Toal   Z 
1.    ML .KI
. Dofnlewdea+ staio        8      22      3S      30      22      11      2
Dof now krAmtan.         4        8       S      3       3               23
n ofew knbunete    ......2~......4  ....   ..   ...~ 
2.    N TT
#ofotwdem+ tuw             8      52      58      63      60     241
# of  k    t               4               S               3              25
_    QM      :          I 1_I1    2    L 1                     0                      6
3.    CENTRAL JAVA
3 of amdAu+u              28      79      74      74       0     255
tof aw kamamatnns         10      27      36      36       0             103
_   of ew 1kb              4       7       11   .1         0                     3.  I
4.    NORTH SULAWESI
I ofamwdeaam+ awter        a      32      76      76       0     192
I of nwkacamtan            4      16      16      16       8    (239)     52
S     CENTRAL SULAWESI
of neow dLes +arter        8      30      60                     208
of newk 2amat            4        9       9              9    j4         40
I of new k2but             2       2       O  0        0                 _2   .
6     SOUTH EASr
SULAWESI                   8      43      68      69       2     240
ofnowdam + 2te             4      12      19      1        5              54
Of now kaoamatan          2       2       0       08      0                       4
# of new kabunten       --                      -                -              -
_                     ~~~~~~1,251    297  53
Note: The number (0) of dams bwetn bukets ane lochig the additonl dam of Type A and Type B tas i systim
No.               6 Provinew      9      3/9 24/95   IK/              9 97/4 M
Iofnowdesss+ ster              68     258    39       372      1Uo     1I
Iof anramatan                  30      80  ,4          83
________    of Im kuosten             M..J                         13 1  L.......J



ltjOt4ML%A Wialer Supply & SanltaUon project lor Low incwom Communhiles
9UMMAftYMrIAMTA7W$CH8EDU.LE
uY&r.&giaeeeai                                      ..---                   j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . ..... 
_ _ _     _        _        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .                                                                                                    ..    ..I..  .
.             ..     ....    . . . ...... ......
CI'bm~~~~~~~~,d-aeIUCa5W4    m                                           I      *-***--*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...  *.... .. ..   .. ......* .
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                      a  .                     S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......    ........     ..     ... .........  ......
- S.-..-.......... . S~~~~~~~~~.....  . .... ...."A   . ........
_          _        _        _        _        _  e d    .   ..................
EaWiahVWSC                                                                                                                                         ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ......... 
*                      I..............    . ..     ...........    ....II .... ... I  I.....  ......
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   A _ _  _   _  _   _                                                       j    -  .  .  -  . .   *   .  -   .  -  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . .. .. . .. .
.-       ........     ...........                                             ........... 
-                                                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ...  . . ..... ............
OUiiOdp 7UWA-fueWmS.                                                                                                                                                                                      2.



- 36-
3.33         Project implementation during the first fiscal year will be centered on
procurement and mobilization of tedhnical assistance and goods, initial traiing for GOI
and NGO staff impleme ting he project, and other trainin, organization, and resource
mobilization in the smer communities. Only limited construction of simple water supply
schemes (type "C" schemes) is expected to take place, starting in the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 93/94. A detailed implementation schedule for the fwst year and an Indicative
schedule for the life of the project can be found in Annex 13. Major project
implementation activities during the first year are outlined below in Box 3.2.
Box 3.2: MAJOR PRoJECT IMPLEMNTATION ACTIvrmES DURING YEAR ONE
Tecbnical assistance pocuremnt through PPF
Tecnical assince and NOO biring for man project implementation
Prcurement of goods through ICB (toilet pans, W.Q. testing kdts)
Preparation of tender documents for LCB
Refine site selection criteia for Batch 1 and subsequent batches
Revise long list for site selection in each province
All central and provincial level taining
Some kabupaten and kecamatan level training
Starter area lementtion:
Finaliz VAPs
Villagevel resource mobilization
Prepation of detailed WS system designs and tender docments
HSE and Social Marketing
WS construction ndering
Start tendering for conStuCtiIon
Batch one implemeation:
Confirmation visits to villages
Apptoved short-list of proec vllages
H. PROCUREMENT
3.34         General: Procurement under the proposed project will consist of small and
scattered civil works, provision of materials and equipment, tedhnical assistance, and
training. Because of the small size and dispersed locations, the need for community
participation, and the need to decentralize management of sub-projects, all works would
be contracted by local competitive bidding, with local shopping and community
participation folowing local procedures and regulations acceptable to the Bank  Ihe
Central Project Secretariat under the Ministry of Health would be responsible for the
overall coordination of procurement activities and the ICB procurement processes which
would be conducted by the relevant Ministries. During a transition period after the fis
two years, the ProvincWi PUICK would become responsible for the pocurement of larger
civil works on behalf of the kabupaten until pimbagpros at the kabupaten level are
appointed and strengthened. At negotions, an assurance was given by GOW tofiuwish
to the Bank an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the transfer of responsibiy for
the construction of large and medm piped water supply systems serving several viages;
and ta such transfer WiU be carnied out not later than Aprl 1, 1996.



- 37-
3.35        Procuremet agements would be as follows:
(a)   Civil Works: Contracts for civil works valued at US$65,000 equivalent or
more up to an aggregate amount of US$22.1 million equivalent should be
procured through local competitive bidding using standard bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank; foreign contractors would not be
interested in such sma1l works scattered around the six provinces. Contracts
for civil works valued at less than US$65,000 equivalent would be arranged
tough local shoppitg procedures with at least three offers from pre-
qualified contractors and NGOs up to an aggregate amount of US$9.9
million equivalent. Included in this amount is a force account to be used
for facilities valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent, up to an agegate
amount of US$2.3 million equivalernt, in remote areas.
(b)   Goods: Survey and drilling equipment, soil percolation test kits, water
quality test kits, and toilet pans for about US$2.5 million equivalent shall
be procured under suitable packages through international competitive
bidding using the standard bidding document for procurement of goods in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will
receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the inport
duty, whichever is less. Pipes and accessories, reinforced steel bars,
electro-mechanical equipment, pumps and hand pumps, small tools, cement
an office equipment and furniture in contract packages valued at less than
US$200,000 equivalent would be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of
US$26.1 million equivalent. The same items packaged in contracts valued
at less than US$25,000 equivalent and less than US$10,000 equivalent
would be procured through local shopping procedures with at least three
offers from qualified suppliers up to an aggregate amount of US$9.9 million
equivalent and through direct purdhasing by force account units or NGO
participation up to an aggregate anount of US$2.8 million equivalent.
Educational materals would be procured tirough local competitive bidding
up to an aggregate amount of US$2.4 million equivalent in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Various educational muaerils in
contracts of less than US$25,000 equivalent up to an aggregated amourt of
US$0.3 million equivalent would be procured through local shopping
procedures with at least three offers from qualified suppliers. GOI has
imposed import ban on foreign vehicles and import restrictions on foreign
computers. Procurement of vehicles in an aggregated amount of US$0.9
million equivalent and procurement of computers in an aggregated amount
of US$0.4 million equivalent are considered reserved procurement and the
Bank fmancing would not be used for the purchase of conmputers, vehicles,
motorcycles, or for rental of vehicles. An assurance was obtaned fom
GOI at negotaions taproject vehicks and computers will be procured In
accordance with a schedule and tmetabk acceptable to the Bank.
(c)   Technical Assistance: Consultant services for implementation support and
special studies totalling about US$12.1 million and detailed design and



-38 -
Table 3.3: PRocuIEma     AM
Procurement                 Total cost
methid                    including
ICB   LCB  Others La   N.B.F. contingencies
Civil worla                -      22.1    9.9          -        32.0
(12.2)  (5.4)                 (17.6)
Equipment and fruniture    1.3    0.3    -             -          1.6
(1.2)   (0.2)                         (1.4)
Construction materials     1.2   25.8   12.7           -        39.7
(0.8)  (14.9)  (7.1)                 (22.8)
Educational materials      -       2.4    0.3          -          2.7
(1.3)  (0.1)                  (1.4)
Vehicles and motorcycles   -       -      -            0.9        0.9
Computers                  -       -      -            0.4        0.4
Consultants services       -       -    12.1           -         12.1
(12.1)                 (12.1)
Desig, surveys             -       -      5.3                   ( 5.3
and stuies k                            (5.3)                  (5.3)
Community s8evices         -              7.3          -         7.3
and supervision                         (7.3)                  (7.3)
Traning                    -       -    12.9           -        12.9
(7.1)                  (7.1)
Project management d       -       -      8.4          -          8.4
(5.0)        -         (5.0)
Total                2.5    50.6   68.9          1.3      123.3
(2.0)  (28.6) (49.4)                 (80.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts fnaced by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Fianced.
La Includes local shopping, selection of consultants followig Bank guidelines,
expenditures following government administratve procedures acceptable to the
Bank, and direct purchasing of goods through NGO and force account units.
h  Includes all labor for construction of wate supply and sitation works and
construction materials for Type A and some Type B.
Ic For water supply system and sanitation facilities.
Lg Project management includes expenditures directly related to the management of
the project, such as travel, consumable nterials, honoraria, meetngs, and office
operational cost, but excludes salaries.



- 39-
surveys totalling about US$5.3 million will be awarded according to Bank
guidelines for the use of consultant services. Under the PPF, GOI will
contract fte services of key individual consultants to assist in the finalization
of project preparation following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consulans will provide for their own trnportaton and should charge
reasonable markt rates for long-term hire or leae of vehicles. Supervision
(travel expenses at village level and payments to NGO for community
services) expenditura totalling about US$7.3 million would be made
following administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(d)   Tralnlng Servies:  Training services totalling about US$12.9 million
would be purc,sed on the basis of relevance and quality of the programs
offered by government or private institutions, according to government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(e)   prqet Mangement: Project management expenses, including travel,
allowances, office costs, and other operational costs, meetings, and
administrative support, toalling about US$8.4 million, would be procured
following government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(f)   Sdectio  of NGOs:  Qualified NGOs would carry out comnunity
participation, training, and constuction of the smallest water supply systems
under contract between the kabupaten or provincial level project managers
and the NGO. Selecton of NGOs and their procurement activities would
follow procedur  acceptable to the Bank.
3.36        Pr       pet IReview  by the Bank.  The Bank will conduct thfe
pocue  review as follows:
(a)   The Bank discussed with 001 ithe following documents at negotiations:
(i) Mark up of the stndard bidding docunints for international
competitive bidding procurement of goods;
(i)  Letter of invitation, supplemental information, and TOR for
consulnts services, to ascertain their confonnity with Bank
guidelhn;
(iii) Norms and regulations for pre-qualification and hiring of NGOs;
(iv)  Standard  bidding  documents for local competitve bidding
procurment of civil works and goods. The approved documents
would be used as master documents for all future bidding; and
(v) Schedule of procurement of vehicles and computers financed by
GOL



- 40 -
(b)   During implementation, all contracts valued at or over US$200,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank, whereas contracts
under US$200,000 equivalent would be subject to random post review,
except for the first three contracts for each province for each year, which
would also be subject to prior review regardless of the contract value;
(c)    All individual consultants contracts and contracts for consulting firms
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior
review; and
(d)    Training and workshops would be subject to random post review by the
Bank.
3.37         Prior review will cover about 10 percent of the total number of Bank-
finmced contracts and 30 percent of the total value of Bank-financed contracts. This
relatively low percentge is considered satisfactory because standard bidding docunts
for local competitive bidding have been previously agreed and procurement training would
be included in the project.
L  DIBURSEMRT
3.38         The proposed loan of US$80.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over
a period of five years (Annex 14). Disbursements are expected to be completed by
Septmber 30, 1998, the Loan Closing Date. The disbursement schedule has been based,
with some adjustments to reflect the establishment of the special account, on te
disbursement profile for water supply and sewerage projects in Indonesia. Disbursement
estimated for FY94 are based on the disbursement of PPF and the proposed initial deposit
into the project special account. Disbursements would be made as follows:
,hmount        X ~of oxendltr
(a)  Cil woand NWaso o mterals           3S.         SS% of toa exentr
(O)  Bquipm (oder than co_Vers            1.4        100% of foleign expendu
and vehce) and  furu                           100% of local (ex-fictry) expendtur and
65% of loal e_endu  for G&W kei ptcrd
bocly
(c)  Eduediona meIals                     1.4       S % of total c urs
(d)  Consla ntrvides,de ,sudies,        22.S        100% of tota eenditurs
community sevices and supervsion
(e)   14Taing                             6.4        55% of total e _nditur
(1)   Lcal tavel and llowances frprject   4.6        100% of tol expentus
gaff and conuble offie upplies
(a)  ReandnofPPF
I)  Unalloded                             7.9
bLQ80.0



- 41 -
3.39       Disbursements from the loan for all contracts exceeding US$200,000 per
contract and all individual consultant contracts and contracts for consulting firms exceeding
US$100,000 for consultant services would be made against full documentaion. AU other
disbursements, including force account and training, would be made against statements of
expenditures for which relevant documents, including the certificate of completion for the
force account civil works based on agreed standard costs, would be retained by responsible
agencies and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions.
Disbursements against Type C non-piped water supply works done under force account
will be based on standard costs acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate disbursements, a
special account would be established at Bank Indonesia to be used by the responsible
implementation agencies, Depkes and Cipta Karya, under the direction of the Director
General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The special
account would be used against eligible expenditures for all categories. When the loan is
in effect and upon confirnation of the establishment of the special account, the Bank, on
receipt of an application from the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance,
would make an initial deposit of up to US$4.0 million, which is based on the need for
funds to cover these expenditures for approximately four months. This account should be
used to cover all foreign and local expenditures of less than US$100,000 equivalent. AU
other expenditures above this amount could be submitted directly to the Bank for payment
or for issuance of Bank's special commitments. Application for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted to the Bank quarterly or when the balance is 50
percent of the initW deposit, whichever occurs first.
3. AccouNs, Aunrrs, AN   EPORTS
3.40        Project implementation agencies involved (Ministries of Health, Public
Works, Home Affairs, and provincial governments including kabupatens and desas) would
establish and maintain separate project accounts for receipt of funds and expenditures
incurred under the project. Similarly, an account would be maintained by Bank Indonesia
showing transactions in the special account. Consolidated project account statements
would be prepared semi-anmually as part of the project progress report by the project
secretariat in the format specified by the Bank (Annex 17), based on the provincial project
accounts prepared by the Provincial Secretariat.  The consolidated project account
sttents would be audited annualy by BPKP (Central Audit Bureau). The audit would
include a separate opinion on the statement of expendiures used as a basis for
disbursement. With fimds provided under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), an
accoutng and record keeping system is being developed for the project to supplement the
existing statutory government accounting system. Additional technical assistance will be
provided to the central project secretariat and project implementing agencies to enable
preparation of the accounts in a dmely manner. Assurances were obtained during
negodations that the project account, including a statement of expenditures and specil
account audit, wil be completed within 9 months of closing of each fiscal year.
3.41        The central project searia would also monitor progress in project
implementation and report to the Bank each semester on this progress. Within six months



- 42 -
after the completion of disbursement, the project secretariat would submit a project
completion report to the Bank.
K. MoNrrom%G, EVALUATIGN, AND SU VON
3.42        Monitoring and Evaluation: Success of the programmatic approach would
depend, to a great extent, on how lessons learned from each year's experience are used
to improve project performance in subsequent years. 'he monitoring and evaluation
system will have to be an instrument responsive to the needs of project management, In
terms of both gathering critical project information and drawing lessons for future
operational programs in the sector in Indonesia.
3.43        Several indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate process and outcome
performance during the project cycle (see Annex 11 for a detailed description). During
project preparation, process indicators described in the aforementioned Annex would
measure the extent to which institutional strengthening or facilitation activities in the
project have prepared the communities for project subcomponent execution. Outcome
indicators, on the other hand, would be used for measuring the impact of the project. For
example, in the starter villages, which are still under project preparation, process
indicators will cover preparatory arrangements for implementation, fund channeling,
training activities, etc., and outcome indicators will report on the quality of village action
plans and amounts and dates on which community contributions for capital costs were
received.
3.44        During construction and in the post-construction phase, process indicators
will point to: (a) the quality of participatory activities by village water and sanitation
committees, including actual contributions toward investment and O&M costs; and (b)
implementation delays. Outcome indicators will report on standard water and santation
sectoral indicators of operational efficiency such as coverage, unit costs, breakdown rates,
blockages, etc.
3.45        Information gathered through process and outcome indicators forms the basis
of evaluating performance and verifying whether the final outcomes match project
objectives. For example, indicators at the village level would report on time and cash
savings after the systems are constructed. The health benefits will be measured by changes
in the morbidity rate (e.g., incidence rates of diarrheal and other water-borne diseases) and
reductions in public health costs in the villages. The benefits in terms of institution
strengthening could be measured by looking at the percentage of village water supply and
saitation committees still functioning after a length of time. The details of these
evaluation exercises will be finalized with0 GOI by the end of 1993.
3.46        The monitoring and evaluation system thus becomes more than a device for
verifying whether physical and financial milestones have been achieved. Instead, the main
task would be to encourage communities to self-monitor activities related to their
settlements and to develop evaluation and feedback capacities at the national and provincial
levels so that the project management team has an up-to-date idea on what has 'worked and



- 43 -
what has not worked during actual implementation. The framework for monitoring and
evaluation will consist of three parts:
(a)   a reporting system for GOI and provincial teams, which will use standard
financial and administrative reporting formats followed in Indonesia;
(b)   a separate self-monitoring format for communities to monitor and evaluate
village water supply and sanitation committee and village action plan
processes; and
(c)   an evaluation and feedback mechanism administered by the national project
secretariat.
3.47        An innovative, ambitious, fully operational monitoring and evaluation system
is expected to evolve over time based on actual experience, rather than being adopted as
a fully designed package. GOI has invited Bank supervision staff to join its officials in
spending time in starter villages with operational projects so that project preparation,
construcion, and training impacts are assessed before the evaluation and feedback system
is finalized. Special studies suggested in the technical assistance component will provide
an analytic focus to these efforts.  GOI agreed at negotiatons to utlze indicators
satsactory to the Bank to monitor and evaluate project impleentaton.
3.48        Assurances were obtained from  GOI at negotations tha the project
secretrat wil prepare semi-anual progress reports to be submited to IBRD within two
monts of the end of each semeer, covering project ijrormation on physical progress,
costs, disbursements, technical assistance, traidng, and other  formaton. The reports
would also include brief summaries on lessons learned and how these are being used in the
suceeding year's programs. Assurances were also obtadnedfrom GOI at negotations that
It wiU carry out a revew of the Imlementation of the ffty-two starter vilages, not later
than June 30, 1995, and that an in-depth mid-term review will be undertaken not laer than
December 31, 1996 by a group of natonal and international eperts.
3.49        Supervision. The project design has many elements innovative to both 001
and IBRD. Notable among them is the high degree of focus on implementaion
performance. In fact, supervision missions will conduct a yearly project appraisal for each
batch of villages covered by the project, based on past year implementation performance.
Project supervision, therefore, will be far more intensive than in similar projects in the
past and will emphasize two areas:
(a)   routine supervision of the project, with particular attention to ensuring that
fnancing  reaches geographically  scattered  villages on  dme  and
procurement-related logistical matters are successfully handled; and
(b)   strategic supervision of project innovations to enable both GOI and IBRD
to ensure that tchnical and institutional design Is adequatly monitored and
followed -up and tha changes in project design reflect the realies exposed
by operational experience.



- 44-^
3.50        The planned superion arrangement would be for the Bank's mission to
supervise the proJect two times eah year.  he first mison would be in May/June and
constitute an overall review of project implementation durig the preceding year. During
this mission, an assessment of the programmatic approach would be undertaken and actions
planned for improving the project design will be reviewed. Taking ito accoun the
budgetary allocations, the annual implementation progran will be reviewed. Taking into
account the budgetauy allocations, the annual implementation program for the following
fiscal year will be reviewed and appropriate changes will be Initiated as necessary.
Financial aspects of the project covering cost recovery applications, accounting systems
and audit issues will also be supervised. The second mission would take place around
October/November each year and progress in all project components will be supervised.
Field visits will be initiated to review the status of project planning and implementation
including the preparation of village action plans, progress in the training and community
participaton aspects, physical works and the performance of consultans and NGOs.
Annex 15 gives annual staff weeks requirements by activity and specialization.



-45 -
4
PROJECT BEA  RISKS
A. ftoiucr BENPm
4.1         The project is expected to benefit about 1.9 million persons in some of the
poorest provinces of Indonesia through improved access to water supply and sanitaion
serices. WSSLIC is also expected to improve the hygiene and sanitation practices within
households by integrating major hygiene and health education initiatives, specifically
benefiti  women and children. Fmally, it will generate long-run institutional benefits in
ms  of increased capacity of community-based oganizations to plan, construct, opeae,
and maintain a simple village-level infrastucture.
4.2         Data from starter villages indicates tbat the expected benefits in tms of
improved aces to water and saniaton services will be substantial. In the starter villages
of Maluku, Central Java, and Nusa Tenggara T1mor, for example, the average household
bas to walk about half a kilomete to fetch te equivalent of 5 liters per capita per day of
drinkg water. As this task is usually performed by women, costs in terms of time and
physical effort have been largely borne by women and girls. In the three Sulawesi
provinces, fte distances villagers had to walk to fetch water were less, but many more
households spent cash daily on their water needs. On average, among the starter villages
where water was bought for cash, a household was spending about Rp 40 per day, or Rp
1,200 per month purchasing water. The benefit in terms of tme spent and reduction in
cash outlays for water supply are tu likcely to be substantial.
4.3         Further, it is anticipaed that the project would yield considerable benefits
from  improvements in the auktdes and practices of communities toward water
consumption, storage, and waste disposal as a result of the project's hygiene and saitary
education iniave. Thbese, together with the proposed waer supply augmntion and
expansion of hygienic sanitation coverage, are expected to reduce the incidence of
intestinal parasites and other water-borne diseases among beneficiaries, and, consequety,
lower related health costs in the project villages.
4.4         Finally, GOI has already spent considerable resources in establishing a
fimctioning system of vilage governmes through the village councils. Some exiting
vilage committees (ike the PIK  will be strengthned, while other new ones  ike the
village water and sanitation committees) are being created through the project to upgrade
the quality of village decision making proceses. The project's substantial outays to
stengthen institutions would thus not only facilitate project execution, but also leave
bend pern     improvements in village-level institutions. Based on te experice



- 46 -
gathered from a project of this scale and scope, GOI and the Bank would benefit in tem
of Improving the design of lelivery mechanisms for rural Infrastucture in general.
4.5         Particular attention in the design of the project has been given to ensure hat
women and their young children will be actively involved in all aspects of projects and
gain positive benefits from it. In addition to time and energy savings as well as
productivity gais due to improvements in health, direct benefits to women include:
(a) more privacy brought about by improved sanitation facilities and improved personal
hygiene practices; (b) enhanced women's role and capability in community management
of WSS as well as their health, social and economic welfare; and (c) increased
participation of women workers who could serve as role models and in turn raise women's
aspirations.
B. ENVoNMETAL IMPACF
4.6         The project would have a positive impact on the environment.
Contaminated sources of drinking water supply and poor hygienic practices for sewage
disposal add to the environmental health problems in rural and urban slum areas. The
provision of safe drinking water and proper environmental sanitation would contribute
significantly to Improving the environment. Complementary hygiene and sanitation
education would also have a beneficial impact through promotion of a hygienic and clean
environment. The proposed project would include large numbers of small water supply
schemes and household and school latrines which would be designed to protect the sources
of water and reduce the health hazards of indiscriminate human waste disposal in open
areas. Use of water-seal pour-flush type latrines would result in the elimination of odors
and insect access to waste disposal pits, further adding to the quality of the rural
environment.
4.7         A few areas of possibly negative environmental impact related to the project
need be considered. These include pollution arising from increased water use, depletion
of water resources, and groundwater pollution from latrines. The possibility of increased
polltion will be met through the hygiene and sanitation component of the project,
particularly promotion practices for hygienic use and handling of water. In addition,
measures will be taken under the water quality surveillance and control progrwn to ensure
safe supply and sanitary protection of facilities. Furthermore, the volume of water
supplied by the small schemes will have an insignificant effect on the depletion of
groundwater. Properly designed and located pit latrines will also prevent groundwater
pollution. Notwithstanding such potentially adverse environmental problems, the net
environmental impact of the project is judged to be positive.
C. INDIGENOUS POPULATION
4.8         Bank concern regarding indigenous population was discussed with GOI
during appraisal. It was noted that some members of ethnic minorities and tribal groups
in the provinces of Maluku and NIT will benefit from the project. It was also concluded
that, given the emphasis on community participation and demand in project design and



-47 -
implementetion, no negative primary effects should be expected. Moreover, secondary
effects, if any, would be minima. The underlying principle in the design of the project
Is to ensure that the approach to community planning, the selection of interventions and
activities, the provision of WSS facilities, and the methodology for community
management will be all in harmony with the traditional systems and values of ethnic
minorities and tribal groups in all areas covered by the project. While recognizing that
a number of these groups are changing and adapting to a variety of outside influences, the
project will help these groups to preserve its cultural heritage and be more confident in
facing and participating in these changes. The project will build on the consulwion
process required under OD4.20 which will be continuously carried out and integrated in
the preparation of village action plans (VAPs) needed to implement sub-projects. It will
also build on existing tribal mechanisms for community action and stimulae acive
participation of households into user groups to work with the project staff in sustainable
operations of WSS services. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI wiU
protect the iterests of Indigenous People and wlU ensure that the benefits they receive
under the Project are In harmony with their economic, social, and cultural preferences.
In tkis respect GOI shalU
(a)  through a process of formed participaton, involve concerned Indigenous
People in the preparation and ikplementadon of relevant WIllage Action
Plans as agreed with the Ban  and
(b) mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Indigenous People caused or likely to
be caused by the project.
D. SArAIABnm
4.9         The project is expected to be sustainable for several reasons. First,
Indonesia's economy is expected to grow; hence, capacity to finance increasing
investments in rural water supply and sanitation is also expected to rise. Second, the
project based its design on sound principles drawn from lessons learned from Indonesia
and intenaional experience (discussed above). Included here is the care with which the
project has been designed to ensure community flmding of O&M and the use of cost
recovery principles to select villages that are highly committed to the sustained operations
and maintenance of their water supply schemes. Another factor that is expected to enhance
sustainability is the project's emphasis on institutional and human resource capacity
building and changing household behavior through hygiene/health education. Finally,
there is the strong ownership of the project and commitnent to its success by the
Indonesians, from central government officials down to the intended beneficiary villages.
E. RIs
4.10        Analysis of past sector experience in Indonesia and comparable countries
points to a number of risks. First, the risk of delays under a programmatic approach could
be extensive in situations where respqnsible agencies do not have the requisite experience



- 48 -
and slills, stong institutions do not develop fast enough, and supervision and guidance are
inadequate. Implementation capacity, particularly at the desa, kecamatan, and kabupaten
levels, jF relatively weak because assigned staff lack skills and have heavy workloads. In
this regard, the public works department does not have WSS staff below the kabupaten
level, and this could delay the village action plan process as well as implementation of
physical works. Second, further delays could arise from problems of coordination due to
the complexity of current bureaucratic processes and the number of agencies involved in
implementation at central, provincial, and lower levels of government. Third, because of
these delays, disbursement of funds may become a problem during the initial years of
project implementation. Fourth, current power structures, standard operating procedures,
bureaucratic cultre, and incentives in Idonesia favor top-down project implementation.
Ihis environment, coupled with delays in institutional and community participation and the
desire to meet disbursement schedules, could force the project into a conventional top-
down, supply-driven mode.
4.11        Lastly, agreements with villages about conununity contributions for
operations and maintenance may be difficult to enforce after the water supply facilities
have been constructed, a situation that could reduce project effectiveness considerably.
The reason is that identification and self-selection of highly committed villages through the
cost-recovery requirement (a key mechansm for project sustainability) is unlikely to occur
unless credible mechanisms for enforcing agreements with villages are in place. At
present, no sanctions are contemplated for communities that renege on their promised
contributions; GOI's measures depend essentially on social pressures. Whether the
proposed arrangements are adequate to ensure a sufficiently high level of compliance is
not clear at present.
4.12        To counter the above risks, project size and phasing have been linked to the
implementation capacities of responsible agencies at various levels.  Thus, project
implementation will start with only 52 villages and a few critical activities (e.g., training)
in year one. While helping to build institutional capacity, NOOs will be used intensively
to facilitate project implementation. Also, the project design has factored in increased
supervision and a strong monitoring and evaluation system. Moreover, appropriate
incentives and   situtional arrangements will be developed to empower intended
beneficiaries and motivate GOI staff to work with them i an interactive and adaptive
manner.
4.13        Coordination problems will be reduced by ensuring transparency in
procedures by which the agencies will interact, finances will be channeled, and technical
assistance provided, and by enhancing the authority of BAPPEDA II, which will play a
lead role in monitoring and coordinating individual agency work programs by issuing
appropriate SKs. With regard to the issue of enforcement, compliance rates will be
monitored and evaluated carefully during project implementation and alternative ways of
encouraging village compliance with cost-sharing agreements will be developed and tested
as back-up measures.
4.14        Finally, the project has been developed with the strong commitment of
Indonesian policy makers to test out technical and institutional options, revisit project
design on the basis of lessons leared, and change strategies if necessary. The significance



- 49 -
of the project design and desire to improve service deliveies are shared from sectoral
agencies down to village communties. The concept and Ideas elaborated are thus
"owned" by the people of Indonesia.  hib is, perhaps, the best way to counter the risk
dicussed above.



so-
RECONEMEACEON
5.1         Prior to negotiadons te Government:
(a)   Confimed that appropriate action had been taken by GOI on thd selection
of key conua   (Project Mangmen Expert, T raining ad Communiy
Development Expert and Nadonal Policy Management Exprt) (Paraph
2.23); and
(b)   Furnished the Bank the following docwnents: (O) proviial decrees (SKs)
signed by the Govenors of the six Project provincea for the establishmet
of implemenion arrangments, inc n s ffg forproject m
and (CH) signed kabupatn dees for most of the         w hei
fifty-two sarter vilages are located (P raph 3.6).
Agreements Readied
5.2         At Negotiations, GOI gave assurane ta t will:
(a)   Funish to the Bank, not later tm Febnry 28 in every yea, a schedle,
acceptable to the Bank, of budget ceilings for the grants the Govermnt
wil provide to pardcipating villages for the construction of water   ply
scme during the following fiscal year (Paragraph 2.5);
(b)   Use the crteda (Paraph 2. 11) for selectig participatinog m  and
th agreed format for preparing Vllage Aton Pn (Pagraph 3.13);
(c)   Implemen a trahg program under a shedule satisfacy to the Bank by
October 31, 1993 (Paragraph 2.19);
(d)   Employ on or before February 28, 1994 TA consultants ote ta those
who. appointment b a condition of lon dburmn (       aph 2.23).
(e)   Maintain the already establHshed Functional    tion    mmite,
Techndcal Coordinadon Commitea, Working Groups and Cetal Projec
Secretariat during implmenion of the project    ph 3.6);



-51 -
(f)   Where required, use in project implemeion NGOs in the following roles:
communit trainig and development, Village Action Plans preparation,
monitoring and evaluation, hygiene and sanitation education, promotion and
assistance in latrine construction and construcdon of Type C non-piped
waer supply schenms. Selection and recruitment procedures for and
contracts with NGOs avill be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Paragraph 3.18);
(g)   Adopt agreed cost recovery principles and establish collection mecanisms
covering both capital and opertion and maintenance costs (Paagraph 3.28);
(O)   Prepare and firish to the Bank by February 28, 1994 an Action Plan to
provide training to women In project implementaion and initiate pilot
schemes to enhance women's role in water supply and sanitation related
programs (Paragraph 3.31);
(i)  BFurnish to the Bank, not later than Jamuay 1, 1994, an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for the transfer of responsibility for the construction
of large and medium piped water supply sysms serving several villages;
and make such transfe not later than April 1, 1996 (Paragraph 3:34);
j)   Procure project vehicles and computers in accordance with a schedule and
timetable acceptable to the Bank (Paragraph 3.35b); and
(k) Use criteria and indicators acceptable to the Bank to monitor and evaluate
project implemntation and make adjusmets therein after consultation with
the Bank (Paragraphs 3.47-3.48);
(l)   Undertake a review of the implementation of the fifty-two starter villages,
not hter than June 30, 1995, and cay out a mid-term review not later than
December 31, 1996 (Paragraph 3.48);
(m)  Protect the interests of Indigenous People and ensure that the benefits they
receive under the project are in hamony with their economic, social and
culturd pref:rences (Par h 4.8).
Conditions of Loan Dibursement
5.3         Mme following will be conditions of loan disbursement against expenditures
for civil works and construction materials:
(a) Signing of contracts with the three key consultants (Project Management
Expert, Tring and Community Development Expert and National Policy
Maagement Expert) (Paragraph 2.23); and
(b)   Employment of NGOs for the implementation of starter projects (Pagraph
3.18).



-52 -
Rcsmmendaodo
5.4         Subject to the above condidons and assurances, the proposed project would
consttute a suhable bass for a Bak loan of US$80 million eoquivalet to the Republic of
lidonesia for a period of 20 years incd     a grace period of five years, at te Bank's
staMnld variable borst rate.



-53 -                           ANNE  I
WATE SUPY AN SATATION
FOR LOW INCOME Co                            PROJECT
TE POJECr ARE
1.           Six provinces have been selcted to be covered under WSSLIC as th project
areas: Centr Java, MalWku, Nusa Teuggara Tmu, North Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi and
Soct-East Sulawesi. With the excepton of Cenal Java, the other five provinces are in
eater ndonesa wher the niden  of poverty stil rema nsuba    . Furthermore, these
provlnc  are also known to be watr scarceas with poor waer quality and related health
problems. General feas of the project provinc  are as follows:
Cenral Java
2.           Central Java Prvince I loed on the Iand of Java between the provinces
of West Java and East Java and bounded on the North by the Java Sea and on the South by the
Indian Ocean and th Specil Terrtry of Jogdakata   ere are no regions with a dry climate
i Cental Java; precipitation is bhier in the mounanous araexceedig 2000 mm annuly
and aound S00 mm In the northem coastal plain. The prvince exhbits a wet tropical
cimate in a mounWans bkone flanked to th North and South by coastal plains.
3.           1991 population of Central Javais about 29 milLion with an average popuation
density of about W50 persons per sq km which is among the highest in the world. The
prvince comprses 35 distices (kabupaten). Ihere are 8465 villages of which 300 are withn
the Momadya (Municpality) boundary. About 40% of these subuasn vilages are sfill
underdeveloped. Average hicome per capita is about USS 203 per year (1988). Higher
densties in the rura areas ar found in the coastal areas wit poor water qualitr and water
scarcity, mostly brackish to saline guwawt with no poteni for deep grundwater.
Medk
4.           The province of Mluku lies in eastem Indonesia, bounded on the East by lian
Jaya, on the West by the North Sulawesi Province , on the North by the Pacific Ocean and on
the South/Soudiwestby the Province of East rmur. Composed of about one thousand Islands,
Malwu exhibits a configuration of archipelagos dispersed among Maluku Sea, Seram Sea,
Halmahera Sea, Banda Sea and Arafur Sea. Ihe province portrays a monsoon tropical
climate with an average rimfall of 1000-3000 mm per year. Southern part of Mauku
archago  forms an easward elongation of the East Nusa Teuggara Islands and is
dcarc     c of the dry climate prevailing in these island. Anua precipiation generaly
increases from South to North.
S.           Th 1991 popqulation of the Maluku province is about 1.9 miion with a low
popaion density of 26 persons per sq km.  he province is divided into 5 kabupaens and



-54 -                          ANNEX I
the Ambon island has the highest population. Average income per capita is about US$ 350
per yea (1990). Water resources are rather limited in the southern portion,
Nusa Tenggara Ilmur
6.           The province of East Nusa Tenggara (NTh lies in eastern Indonesia bounded
on the North by the Flores Sea, on the West by the Province of West Nusa Tenggra, on the
East by the Province of East Timor and on the South by the Indian Ocean. The province
comprises 566 islands, 42 of which are inhabited. Flores, Sumba and Timor are the largest
islands. ITe climate is strongly influenced by the land masses of Asia and Australia. A
distinc wet season is related to the Asiatic nothwest monsoon from November to April,
whereas the dry season is related to the southeasterly Australian winter anticyclone. Sumbawa
and Flores are both subjected to prolonged dry seasons, when less than 250 mm of rain fals
over the pedod May to October. The fact that NIT is among the least developed provinces
in Indonesia Is attributed partly to the and nature of the countryside during the long dry
season.
7.           The 1990 population of NTT is about 3.3 million with low population density
of about 68 persons per sq km. Ihe province is divided into 12 Iabupatens with a total of
1723 villages. Average income per capita is about US$ 135 per year (1988). Watersheds are
generally short and steep. Except for the larger drainage basins, the majority of rivers in
Sumbawa and Flores become dry during the latter stages of the dry season. Approximately
half of the population use rivers and springs for water supply. The majority of others use
dugwells or handpumps.
North Sulaweui
8.           Sulawesi is one of the four largest islands in the Indonesian archipelago. The
isand has a mouninous topography and consists of four arms or peninsuas in a peculiar *K"
shape. The North Sulawesi Province constitutes the northern peninsula bounded on the North
by the Celebes Sea and the Philippines and on the South by the Tomini Bay. On the western
edge, it is bounded by Central Sulawesi and the Sulawesi Sea and on the East by the Maluku
Sea. The province exhibits a wet tropical climate with an amnnal rainall ranging from 2000
mm to 3000 mm.
9.           North Sulawesi has a 1991 popuation of about 2.5 million with a average
desity of 132 persons per sq km. It is divided into 4 kabupatens and has a total of 1371
villages. Average income per capita is US$ 253 per year (1989). The hydrogeological
unvestigatlons in the starter areas show avalability of springs in the kustic areas and also the
poteal of shallow and groundwater in allovial deposits.
Cent  Sulawd
10.         The province of Central Sulawesi lies between North Sulawesi and South and
Southeast Sulawesi provinces and bounded on the East by the Maluku Sea, and on the West
by the Maksar Strais. Ihe area shows a tropical climate with rainfl ranging drastically
between 400 and 3000 mm. The region is affected by the wet west monsoon and the the dry
east monsoon. Although Palu valley receives very little rainfal, alluvial fan-type deposits
Lepree poti for water sources.



-55-                           ANNEX 1
11.         in Cnta Sulawesi prvince, the total population is about 1.7 million (1990).
Mm populationdewsty Is low averagin about 2S persons per sq km. The province is divided
into 4        and has a totl of 1302 villages. Aveag Income per capita is about US$
317 per yea (19U).
12.         Mmh provinc of Southea Sulawesi contes the southater peninsula of
Sulawesi bld and lies to the east of South Sulawesi province and to the South of Central
Sulawsi. k s bounded on the west by the Bone Bay and on the east by the Banda Sea. It
exhibia a trpical climate with hgher precipitation (more dm  2000 mm per year) in the
northen reon and less than 2000 mm in the southen region. Kabupaten Muna, in fact,
tocev  only 732 mm of aal anwually. Tes hydrogeologlcal investigations reveal that
Wt mources are lmited in the South to karstic water.
13.         ih totl popaiDon of Southeast Sulawesi is about 1.3 million (1990). The
povince conssts of 4 kdpt  wit 757 vilages. Population density averages to about 49
peo  per sq km



-56-                                      ANNEX 2
R'DOPNESIA
WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION FOR
LODW lINCOMlE CONrrMS PROJECT
JX OF PtROJE  AREAS DENTmmED FOR F3w YER IMPmTATION
PROVINCEI            KABUPATEN            KECAMT                  DESA            ESTIMATMD
KOTAMADYA           (SUB-DISTRICT)        (VILLAGE)         POPULATION
(DISTRICrT                                                    (1992)
Jawa Ta2gmh            Kbotmadys             Pe&aibog9an Ulua    Kadana Panian                  3.781
(Co^aitralla)           Pekal n                                        Wetan                    3,680
Romubsg              Sapmg               BaMt&wo                         1,849
Sinx M. *                     19.056
Slnk                Manar                          2.912
Tmhan                          1.535
Kotnamaya Teopl      Tgal Timor          Pa                             22,206
Slrok                         12.280
Wonogiti              Gitootro            8aho                          2.491
OGuda gbaio                    1.634
Ilamantoro          Kihmantoro                     4,396
..                                        aedllwusu                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,621
_  ~~~_________                     _ ________ _                                 4_62
maa                     Mab^a4m      t        Loihitu             AUs"l                          3,0
(Centralwd   )                           LA                             2,112
Namla               UbUng                          1.035
____ ___ ___ __. __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ L am ahallR                   1.57
11
MaluuTeagari         Kei Bowa             Baua Emy                      2,140
(SOUM   miw                     boiff-U-                        910
Kai Keoll           Ohoitahit                       713
_________________  ________________                               Ohoitel                       2,249
Nun Tengga Thnor    Alor                     Alor Tmur           Waiika                         1,297
(Beat Nu.. Faignggr)
Nuz TelUSlut)                           .    FI~~~~~~~~~Kmot  _1,207
Pantar Bakt         T__                            1,607
Kalondama                      1,290
N&ad                 Petw. B*jawa        N      _amau       1__
b___ _a                        1.157
Aimoro             Tioriwu                         1.030
-_________________ -    --  __________ .cK iig                                                 1 353



-57-                                    ANNEX 2
PROVINCE           XKABUPATN            KECAMETE               DESA           ESTlMATED
KOTAMADYA          (SUB-DISTRICT)       (VILLAGE)        POPULATION
(DISMUC/                                                   (1992)
Sulawui Tenph         DoAgl                Manwole            Labuan                      13.102
Nuvabomba                    2,377l
PaiU Bust          PaIu                           998
_Balonga                     1.200
PUG                 Paso Pesis         KlHo                          1.651
.e     _leniba                 834
Top                Sandade                        781
_____________               ___________       ~~~~~Toliba                     707
Sulewasi Taoa         Buton                Samolawa           Gunung Suk,28
(Soude Sulawasi)
_________________  Tim                           1,088
Batauga            Lab!.                        2,318
Bobl                         1,232
M_ae                Katubo             Wawea                         1.468
Wakorambo                      908
Kusambi            Dan;                         2.112
_______   __ ____   ____              1,782
Sulawesi Uta          Gorontelo            Tibwa              Mulowabau                     L39
(Nit Sulwei
.Nmdi S__w__ _    Mobowahu                                        3.414
Beda.              Bihu Barat                   2.462
_____________        ____________       LmeheDB.+1                   7,744
Mnm                 Tombesin           Maliku                        1,094
Maiens Baru                    476
Kaudian            Lian                           551
-_____________________   ________      _ _._-__._._,,__._.  W aleo                      1,344
Totak 157,418



-58-                             ANNEX3
NDONESlIA
WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION FOR
LOW INCOME COW&UNff[ES PROJECT
ftojEur APPROAC: DEmAN, Cosr REcovERY AD POvTY Focus
This note is divided into three sections. The first secton describes the feates
of the proposed programmatic approach. The second section looks at cost recovery aspects,
and the poverty and demand focus of the project relying on the lessons leaned from starter
village experiences. The third section examines whether the project can adequately serve the
poor.
L FATURES OF A PROGRAmmTC AROAC
The proposed implementation model involves an adaptive or 'programmatic'
style of project planning incorporating the following principles:
*     A demand-based approach to scheme selection. Whfle community preferences will
form the basis of service level choices, a sense of ownership will be encouraged
through continued community involvement during construction, operations, and
maintenance stages.
*     Buflding capacity of communities to handle the proposed increase in responsibilities.
Participation in investment decisions as well as day-to-ay operational tasks, such as,
management of finances, repairs, coordinating with other agencies etc. will be assisted
by appropriate technical assistance and training programs.
*     Re-oriendng working styles of staff of Government organizations from  being
'providers' to being 'facilitators'. A participative and interactive mode is possible ondy
when work attitudes are re-oriented to listening more to what beneficiaries say.lt
     Flexibility in formulating engineering designs. Design gets worked out iteratively
between communities and engineers, with experience gathered (essons learned) from
the initial phases of project execution improving design in subsequent years.
The project is thus a large-scale learing eperience for both GOI and the
World Bank on developing flexible mechanisms for delivering sustainable water and sanitation
1I  Expere from anher large iiar World Bank-ised pret  ret  at pei-uem  low
income conmmuities aurry under execuio in Brazil (7083-BR) indicates that the attides of
public officials cange whe the prqect design forces them to adopt an inrautive style of decision
making.



-59 -                            ANNEX 3
infrastucture. Within the administrative system of GOI, the project will improve cross-
sectoral coordination between line Ministries (Public Works, Home Affairs and Health)
involved in the facilitation roles. It also allows successfil NGOs to 'scale-up' concepts and
ideas In partnership with 001 and IBRD in a large infrastructr  project targeted at low
income communities. Its main features are:
(i) GOJ and lBRD have agreed on reasonable average Constructon (civil works) costsper
capita in w project.
Based on Indonesian data collected by the project preparation teamn, and starter
village data, per capita construction costs of about $25 for water supply and $5 per household
for sanitation.2/ These have provided indicative information for assessing project size.
(Ii Invdl sub-projects are provied with suitable incentive structures to ensure that a
demad-based  aproch is followed.
For water supply, incentives are designed for communities to 'reveal' their preferences
between service options.
Beneficiaries will be provided fixed budget ceilings of project investment
support, which can be used by them as the seed capital to decide how much of their own
resources they would like to invest. The budget ceilings will be per capita construction costs
of $25, subject to some flexibility in exceptional cases that are mutually satisfactory to 001
and the Bank. Second, in order to ensure that only communities with commitment to accept
responsibilities participate, villages will be required to contribute at least 4.0 percent of
construction costs in cash Irrespecive of the service levels chosen. Third, communites will
be free to choose a service level substantially higher than the budget ceiling of $25, if there
is adequate internal resource mobilization in villages to finance balance construction costs. If
for example, fifty relatively affluent residents want house connections, the Village Water and
Sanitation Committee could suitably change the service delivery design, and perhaps utilize
their willingness to pay for a higher level of service to cross-subsidize poorer residents. Figure
1 below explains the concept.
D,C,B,A represent average construction costs per capita for service levels using
four possible technical options (e.g. dugwells, handpumps, piped water with public taps, and
with house connections respectively). ZZ is the proposed budget ceiling on construction costs
financed by the project. Ihe community thus has a choice among four options for service
levels, with a rider that at least 4.0 percent of investment costs has to be borne by the
vilagers. Any incremental costs above ZZ - associated with a higher level of service -
becomes the village's liability.
2,/ Bsd on imit cods agreed with GOI of Rp.65 million per demas for piped systms and Rp. 27
million per desa for non-piped systems.



-60-                            ANNEX 3
EI
Average construction cost/capita
/A
! O/
I.
Level of Service
For sanitation, subsidies are channelled directly to service providers to improve
marketing incentives for low cost private toilets.
WSSLIC will adopt a "stimulation strategy" for improved sanitation practices
by providing village ardsans (tukangs) with fiee plastic toilet bowls, cement and some
exnion support. Ihe tuangs incentive structres will be market-based, with the project
subsidies stimulating initial interest. Supplemented by training, hygiene education and extension
support, these project inventions are expected to increase private household demand for on-
site sanitation.
For the 'software' support, supervision staff have incentives to closely track tecbnical
assistance, training, and community development performance
Successful completion of Village Action Plans, and hence investment fund
avlability in the project, depends on whether a community has been able to collect resources
and organize itself through the Village Water and Sanitation Committee. The project has built
in - because of its prog ic nature - strong incentives for G01 and IBRD supervision
teams to closey monitor tning/community development impacts. Ihe NGO groups who will
participate in the project also have incentives to preserve or enhance their considerable naional
and international reputations during project implementation.
to  Wt went,, what doea not wrk in eX d batch of wJUag  will be utd   to iwmwe
dal4p On an annual basi.
Project prepation activities in the strt areas have already begun, providing
some interesting insi8hts on community percepons, implementtion problems etc. Some of
the cost recovery lessons, and implications for the poverty focus discussed in the next two
sections, for example, helped ffnalize the 'incentive systems' described above. Each year's
experience will be evaluated before the next batch of village designs are finalized. Special
studies coisioned through the Technical Assistance package will also analyze the policy
implications of project innovations. Utilizing this Monitoring and Evaluation framework, the
project becomes essentially a large-scale 'leaming by doing' exercise.



-61-                             ANNEX 3
E. STATR AREA Cor RECOVERY ANALYS
Gewr  finding: Community willingness to contribute to construction costs in the starter
villages averaged about 30 percent, with about one fifU being cash contributions, and the rest
In kind. VUllages appeared willing to pay for routine operations and maintenance in almost all
cases. As for sustainable operations and maintenance (i.e. inclusive of parts with seven year
life), the willingness to pay declines in villages that chose more complex technologies
(involving pumps and other moving parts), although capital cost conibutions are higher.3I
Data Qualty: During the surveys and focus group discussions in the starter areas, households
were asked how much they would be willing to pay (WTP) for water and sanitation. At that
time, however, it was not possible to present households with specific alternatives and ask
them In a structured manner how much they would pay for each option. The data quality and
accracy is also questionable because of (a) a lack of consistency in survey methods across the
provinces and villages, (b) the reluctance of villagers to state total household income, and (c) a
tenidency to understate willingness to pay for infrastructure provided by the Government. For
example, about 4% of monthly household income was being spent on purchasing water in
villages where cash transactions were involved. Ihis could be described as a yardstick of the
average ability to pay, as reported from the starter areas.
With the benefit of starter area experience, data is expected to improve for each
subsequent batch of project villages.
The ster was proposals are comprised of 52 water and sanitation schemes.
The results of the starter area analysis are summarized in Table 1 and discussed furither below.
i Routie O&M fbr water compses cosw for (a) operal saff, (b) power or fiel (maiy in ca
of Twpe A nid B schemes), (c) chemicals, if any, (d) short li matece material and (e) otier
adm tiv        costs. Sustainable O&M compriss cosa for (a) rotine O&M and (b) rephaemu2t
of asset with life of less than 7 year e.g. pumps, pipe accessoies (some valves, taps), spare puts
for genar sel.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 1: STARE  AEA CoST RECOERY
It i             csab  umah ta             Nat*       b91        SB       Aw
NwabetofDo=                       7       8       8         a         S         7
Pot cqa I-am:
- RPQM                        16,601   14,86    12,338    21,501  17.28    22.68    17.912
_ * F%PeLim                     95     67%      66%      I13*      92%       137%     too%
Weid Nouseld Inome (oUo        74,8w4   85,992   69,144    109,107  91.56    1270     94A41
CmmiW Cmtxadi to Iv. la
- * ci n                       16.0%    41.5%    16.4%  45.1%     23.7%     35.5%    19.7%
- o dMR AUMu boom              3.6%    3.2%    2.3%      6.1%      4.7%      33%      4.2%
Wga OAM As U MNl Uny Inome:
-                              0.8%    0.5%    0.9%      0.8%      1.2%      0.9%     0.8%
* S,bI.                        1.3%    0.71    1.3%      t.S%      2.3%      1.3%     1.4%
Wain O&M (hp As * Dom hpu
- RoAIn                        0.0%    0.0%    0A%       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%     0.0%
- uthb                         0.0%    0.0%    0.0%.     0.0% OQ0%           00%     00%
Tad OCM As % N MH hl ne:
_RAs                           1.1%    1.1%    1,.36     Lt%       t.%       1.1%     U.3%
.abl                           1.7%    1.4%    1.9%      1.9%      3.0%      1.8%     1.9%
OAK OIs As U Dom Inpo
. R_.                          0.0%    0.0%    0.0      0.0%      OA%       OA%      0A%
- Bomb"                        0.0%    0.0%    0.0% OA%            1.1%      0%       0.2%
TW CAM (SU Nbe) MPd By.
-3 RNs" dd ROm)                 64%    79%      71%      62%        6t*      63%       67%
_ Rold0je_tebl.)               36%      21%     29%       38%      38%       37%       33%
* l%a _m                        0%      0%      0%        0%        1%        0%       0%
*laerlnwp                       0%      0%       Of      0O         0%       0        0M
T OTW                         1CO%     100%    10O%      100%      100%     1ODX      I0
fj Excludes overhead costs.
Community Contribution to Investments: Community contnbution to base investment cost
appears substantial in all provinces, averaging about 30% of total costs. The share of cash
payments in the expected total contribution was approximately one fih, with the rest (four-fift)
being in-kind. Two interesting features were observed. First, community contributions for
water supply investments in provinces with relatively poor populations has been quite high. In
Maluku, for example, the average community willingness to contribute was 37 percent of
investment costs.
Second, villages wanting higher levels of service (house connections) were willing
to contribute more to investments. In the provinces of North and Southeast Sulawesi, for
example, the corresponding figures were 42 and 31 percent respectively.
Options for villages unable to cover sustanable Operations and Maintenance (O&AM:
Starter village data indicate average routine O&M costs to be 0.8 percent of
household monthly income, while sustainable O&M is estimated at 1.4 percent. When water and
sanitation are combined, the figures are 1.3 percent and 1.9 percent respectively. In villages
where households are purchasing water, on an average, about 4 percent of household incomes
are spent annually.
Some villages chose technologies that needed more than 4 percent of average
household incomes (because of low village incomes, high costs of providing the preferred service



-63 -                           ANNEX 3
or both). In these situations an O&M gap was observed, and the question of whether the
proposed system was worth implementing was evaluated.
The decision rule was to require villages to decide whether they really viewed the
water and sanitation infrastructure as a high priority. At present, all villages receive INPRES
DESA block grants (channelled direcdy by GOI), that can be utilized for any locally decided
priority.4/ Obviouly, many competing needs have to be reconciled, and a decision to use
INPRES grants to fill the O&M gap will involve trade-offs with other claimants to scarce public
funds. If current usage practices of INPRES are any guide, a village could be in a position to
allocate up to a maximum of 10 percent of the available funds to fill the O&M gap.
When the sustainable O&M gap is over 10 percent (valid for only two of the
starter villages), the options available are:
-     Review technical design, and modify/reduce scheme costs;
-     Drop the village from the project list; and
-     Ask the community to re-evaluate their contributions to investment, and O&M costs.
After the first year of implementation, the experience with cost recovery will be
reviewed, and modified if necessary in the succeeding yearly programs.
11L RECONCJUNG POVERTY Wnm THE DEMAND Focus
stmates of Poverty Levels
According to a recent study of the World Bank, the poverty line in rural
Indonesia is a per capita monthly income of Rp. 13,295, or roughly Rp, 80,000 for a household
of six persons. The urban povert line is esdmated at Rp. 20,614 or Rp. 124,000 per household
per month. In the six provinces covered by the project the poverty lines (for households
conststing of six members) is shown below.
#I At pmait, Rp 4.5 miien is alloca  ddecly to vilaes under INPRES Desa Another Rp. 4500
per capita is also available thwugh INPRES TK II to the kabupan level, and passed onto vilgwes.



-64-                            ANNEX 3
Table 2t
Province                Household income/month
(Rp)
Central Java                    0W -        -
N1T                          96,000
Mluku                       113,000
S.E.Sulawasi                 88,000
C.Sulawesi                   95,000
N.Sulawesi                   96,000
Source: Wold B;ak (1992).
Te inoome sttstics for the swer areas collected in te project household
survys show an average per capita income of aboutRp. 18,000 p  month (US$ 105 per person
per year or $25 for an average famly of 5 pesons). hiome level in some vilages is below
the poverty lIne as defined in the 1992 IBRD report while it, I above the line in others. The
avere income level for all sar  villages is just at the povety lin.
Demand In Poor Viages
Data from start areas indice that p    vilges are as likely to reveal their
preferees for service tevels as more affluent vilages. Table 3 summariz  village WTP for
capital costs, routine and sustainable O&M costs by village Incme quates. Two features, are
obsevable:
0  Poorer vllges appeared to choose less expensivwe t ologies. The poorest quartie of
vilages (amnged by average incomes per capita) for example, adected techologies with
an avera   ost of $34 per capita, while the richer villags hose teologies costiog $45
per capVta.
o   Average village WTP fr O&M costs (both for utide and sustanble) apars to decline
as villages become richer. Richer vlgej while les wiling to pay for sustainable
OPAtiODS and maieance, appar wiDg to contribuXt more of the capital costs.



-65-                            ANNEX 3
Table 3:
Vinq Isme   Ave.q WIT        Am._  A_W
Lee bY       for Caplta   VWIO&M         WFPIO&M
t ua tiles)    costs         (%)            (%)
1________  __                  RoUte         ustal uabi
I (Pooest))             24         220              153
II                     29           200             130
m I                     26          192             84
,IV Maee)               38          143              94
Was adequate poverty focus maintaied In sartr viages?
The strter village average income per capita was very close to the rural povety
line for Indonesia. In abou a quarer of the starter villages, however, average houshold
Incomes were higher thaD the provinci poverty li  - varying betwen 100 and 200 pece.
VWariations in starter village incomes have aisen becase the seletion crieria
adopted in the provines used secondary data on the following topics, with differt weighting
ystem  being followed in each province:
3    Present condition of w&s facilities and water scarcity;
3     Poverty level and remoteness of area;
*     Incidence of water-borne and excreta related diseases;
o     Drnking water quality; and
Exitence of phnnedlongoing projects.
'he resulta  'long' list of 1441 vilages has thus bee  inadequate with regard to both
maintaining a demand and povert tageting.
In order to maintain poverty targeting, the project will first 'screen' all cadida
villages, so tat eligible villages are all poor vilages (wih averge per capita incomes being
about 150 percent or less of provicial poverty lines).5/ Before the next batch of starter villages
are finalized, BPS has agreed to merge existng SUSENAS and PODES data, and estimate the
average per capita income levels for all the 1441 villages. These data will be compared agaist
the 'sree ' crita, so tat poor villages are selected for project eecution.
While the poverty criterion enables the project to target investments at deserving,
low income villages, it does nOt guarn   that W&s services wil operate in a reliable ad
sustable manne during the post-onstruction phase. For example, under the INPRES
program, which was also targeted at poor communmes, supply options were dedd by public
officials rther tan by commuities. According to a post-project evaluation, only about 62
/I Explaaon of bow to ma_ntin a demnd fbcu was prmeted in do preceding sections.



-66-                            ANNEX 3
percen of water and 51 percent of sanitation faciities surveyed wore fictioning satisfactorily
in 1987.fi The solution lies in ensuring that even the poorest communities are provided with
services they want, and are willing to pay for.
Does the projets emphasis on WTP reduce acce  of the poor?
The project's emphasis on WTP as a criterion for village selection is based on the
lessons learned from investments that have been sustained over time. A question that arose
during project preparation was whether this criterion would reduce the ability of the very poor
in a village to benefit from the project. The project does not expect these persons to be denied
access because of the following reasons:
(i) The starter village data indicate that in communities with perceived needs for water
supply there is a high willingness to pay for capital, operations and maintece costs provid
reliable services are guaranteed;
(ii)   Ihe community-based approach of this project is building upon Indonesian cultural, socia
and religious norms by which communities include, rather ta exclude menbers from access
to common property resources;
(iii)  Current GOI policies to promote commnity self-help through the LKMD insttutions
provide basic administrative and financial structures to operationalize poverty targedng without
losing the demand focus. For example, cost-sharing wiil not necessary preclude the poor,
because vitllages have the opporuniy to fill the O&M gap with INPRES block grats;
(iv) The proposed design criteria are weighted in favor of simple but reliable teclnologies
(those with mimum moving parts, and/or having spare parts avaiable through the vilge
distribution network). Starter village selections have confirmed that villagers prefer to opt for
ifrastructure with minimum of moving parts (simple grvity fed systems and dug wells, boti
having low operations and maintenance liabitities);
(v) While villages where the entire community is poor may not be able to contribute much
cash resources toward investment costs, they can compensae by higher labor con=tution
(gotong royong), providing land and materis.
JI The INPRES report indies that 35 per cent of he systems built duing REPELITA IV weve not
fmotioning wvithn three yeaus.



-67 -                         ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                             PROJECT
CoMmuNrY PARITnCJATION AmD TmAIG PROGlAM
Introduction:
1.      ience  in Indonesia ad elsewhere indicates clearly dt  sustainable
Improvement to rur  water supples and sanitation are only possible if communiY
participation is incorporatd and effective from fte earliest stages of project design. The
WSSUC stategy is based on this premise and will be driven by the ability of benefitting
communities to identify needs and then plan md manage solutions. both government and
non-government entities will facilitate this process, rather than provide services directly.
Communibt Participato  Strateg:
2.    Ihe overall project strategy and implementaion plan is underpinned by the concept
of active community participation in all stages of implementation from sub-project
ideification and planning through operation aid maintenace. Community participation
can take many forms, ranging from passive agreem  to the conclusions of dialogues with
government agencies to initiatives originating entirely within and carried out exclusively
with community resources.
3.    G01 endorses a policy of fostering participation in the form of community
managmi~nt of waer supply and sanitation systems, wherein the beneftting counites
assume full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of their WSS systems. In
order for this to be achieved it is necessary to inculcate a strong and real sense of system
ownership by pro-active involvement of communides in Idendfying service needs, selecting
technical designs, financial planning, system constuction, and Implementation of an
operation and maintenance plan.
4.    Accordingly, the first initiative for sub-project identification will come from the
communites rather than from GOI. After a sub-project is identified, capacity building
dtough participatory dialogues and training wiU be cared out to ensure that each
community is capable of managing all aspects of the project and fully understands and
accepts the associated responsibilities.
5.    Community maagement may take several forms depending on the complexity of
the WSS system, the size of the community, its level of organization and technical
capabiliti. In small communities with  chnically smle waer supplies, management
may be direct d active, with communities finacing and carrying out at least a portion
of the construction and all of the operation and maiance using skiUed and unskilled



-68-                           ANNEX 4
labor and administrative resources from within the commnity. In more complex
situatons, communities may chose to sub-contract some or all of the construction works
as well as operation and maintenance to concors and/or water enterprises (PDAMs) in
nearby small towns or kabupatens. In this situaion, the focus of community participation
would be on system planning and financial management.
6.    A matrix of project implementation actvities that will be carried out to affect
cmnity management is portrayed in Annex 4, Atachment 1. A GOI-approved village
action plan that is acceptable to the Bank wIll be a requirement for project funding of
village water supply and sanitation scheme construction. To be acceptable to the Bank-
a Village Action Plan must contain specfic information and agreemens, as shown In the
Village Action Plan Format (checklist) (see Atacment 2). In general terms, such a VAP
must show.
The traiing component:
7.    The programmatic, demand driven nature of the Project is new to goverment, as
is the high level of collaboration ta will be required, both betwee government agencies
and also between GOI and non-government entities. To carry out the project, major re-
deployment of government stff and strengdtening of planning and maagement
cpabilties, particularly at the lower administrative levels down to the desa will be
rqired. Accordingly, hwman tesources development and the trann  It involves will
form a key component of the project. The Govemment of hidonesia recognizes the need
for a     ehensive training program within the project that will build upon, in both
quatative and qualiaive terms, existing curricula and programs that are preseny being
ried out by government, NGOs and the private sector.
Objees:
8.    The fundamntal objective of the training program will be to develop insttional
ructures, along with administrative and technical capacities at village and local
gove     levels to plan and manage water supply and sanitation systems on a sstand
basis with minimal external support
Strateay:
9.    Emphasis and invesme  will focus on kecamatan and desas level skills training
and institional development. At higher levels taining will primarily address staff
orination to the project and enbancement of particular management and training skills.
Capacity for managing World Bank loans will also be developed at these higher levels.
A Project Training Coordnator, together with waining unks of the relaed government
sectors, will be responsible for central and provincial level  ining. NGOs in close
collaboration with relevant government departments will design and carry out training
pro    at the kecanatan and desa levels.  A "cascade" type of training strategy
operatig exclusively wiin the pubUlc sector will not be used in the project. Rather, dte
traiing program will seek to capitalize on existing HRD capacity among NGOs and the
privat secoDr, as well as within government, to achieve its objectives.



69-                           ANNEX 4
Trinig methodology:
10.   The traing methgodology at the community level will be participwory in natue
and wil miimize the need for didactic, classroom-style teaching methods. It will be
based on an experiental learning cycle where things to be learned have some bearing on
the lives of the adults being td. This approach will incorporate the following
concepts:
(a)   The training curriculum  must incorporate a variety of educational
approaches in order to accommodate the variety of ways that people learn;
(b)   Learning is not something that will be injected into people; rather it
evolves as a result of their experiences. Adult lrers function as teachers
and sudet at the same tm, using their experiences to facilitate the
learnng process;
(c)   Leaning is most effectively brought about when the leaning goals and
objectives have relevance and meaning for the trae  in terms of their
own lives and builds on what they already know. For most adults,
learning is problem-centered; it is a process for problem idenification and
solving.
(d)     agis meaningless f it is only the acquisiton of facts and figues.
The acquisition of information must be supplementd by an understanding
of why this information is Importt d how this knowledge can be used
productively.
11.   Trainn will be given to several categories of staff using varying modules and
approaches and degrees of intensity. A mati of training activiis and their target groups
can be found in Attachment 3 to this Annex. Major categories of people to be trained are
oudtied below:
Ptoject Coodination Staff:
12.   Thes staff, at the kabupaten level and above will likely require only incremenal
training project in coordination md the adminon of World Bank funded projects.
Specific training on World Bank loan processing, contracting, reporting and procurement
procedes will be provided for key administrative staff. Also, engining and other
technical staff will be reoriented to support a participatory approach to community water
supply planning and design.
ltject             Staff 
13. Project management staff at the Kabupaten and below will need training in how to
manage a community based WSS program and pardcipatory community organition skills.



-70-                           ANNEX 4
They wiUl also need to acquire incrmental skills in project supervision, monitoring and
evaluation.
Pteet fieldl aff:
14.   Training as well as regular refresher courses will be provided for field staff. Ihe
training will cover the following major areas:
(a)   Community organization and te comnunity management process;
(b)   Participatory development methods;
(c)   environmental sanitation and hygiene education;
(d) water supply and sanitation technology alternatives;
(e)   Resource mobilization.
15. New field staff will receive two months of intensive training organized by the
project and one month of on-the-job training before being assigned to work in specific
communities. They will be trained in aU stages of the project activity cycle so that they
wi be familiar with every aspect. Community development staff will receive more
intensive traing in the community management process and in hygiene/sanitation
education while technical staff will get more trainig in WSS system thnology and in
watr qualwt  testing.
Vlage wate  user groups and communities:
16.   Vilage Water and Sanitation Committes and their sub-committees will be the
primary beneficiaries of the project's training program. A deailed outline of the training
modules to be developed for village level raining can be found in Attachment 1 to this
Annex. The aim of community training will be to provide the necssary skills not only
for the planning ad construction of the commnity'ls own WSS system but also to manage
the proper operation and m ann     of these systems for sustainability. The amount and
type of traning will be detrmied in part by the technology selected and also by the
prevaing capablities of the community.
17.   Trining sessions for women in the village committees will be conducted in both
mixed gender groups and separately, depending on the focus of the tsks involved. For
example, training sessions on hygiene education will be geared toward women and
conduced more in separate groups. Sessions for the women's component in income
genraton and skills enhancement will also be in separate groups. Sessions on hygiene
education in schools will be targeted for school children and teahs.
Other groups:



-71-                           ANNEX 4
18.   At hiber levels, specific skills training may also be planned in specific cases.
There will be a need to enhance hydrogeological capacity in order to develop adequate
capacity to support technical pbnning. Also, In some cases BPAM/PDAM members will
requie supplemena  raning In order for them to respond to community demands and to
ensure beneficiary involvement in the manaement process. In each village, technical
trai      in latrine construction will be provided to individuals who are interested in
build  latr    on a commercial basis, as well as to households who wish to construct
sanitoaon facilities on a self-help basis.
Rsurces for training:
19.   Staff and odter resources required to cary out the training progran will be
provided by DEPKES, PU, Home Affairs, private sector groups and NGOs. Training for
instiuional  rng        at the kcamatan level and below will be managed by the
Directora  General of Village Development (Bangdes) in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
NGOs will work closely wih Bangdes at these levels. In areas where NGO capacity is
adequte, they will be the lead trang and village level project execution agencies, in
collaboration with relevant GOI institutions.
20.   Instiotu     g         at Kabupaten and higher levels will be the primary
responsibility of the Directorate General of Regional Development (Bangda) in the
Ministry of Home Affairs. Technical training will be mansged by the D.G. PPM-PLP in
the Ministry of Health for hygiene education, sanitation, and supervision of water quality,
and by the D.G. Cipta Karya in the Ministry of Public Works for water supply and
sanitao construction ad maienace. Both of thme Directorates will work closely with
NOOs at the village and ecinatan level.
21.   Easting taning capacity, particularly at the Kewamatan and village level is limited
widin the reonsible governent agencies and it is for this reason that employment of
NGOs will be sought in the project. Many aspects of community trning will be
contracted to qualified ad experieed NGOs Mad/or private sector training institutions
in areas where they are active. At the kecamatan level the key government facilitators of
the tranng and community mobilization program will be Sanitaria  from the Department
of Heat  and Kaubangs from  Bangdes. They will be supported by a full-time field
officer who will be appointed by NGOs ta GOI 0wil employ in the area, or by GOI
direcdy.
22. A core team of trainer will be stationed at the kabupaten level to provide initial
traing, folow up and refrsher courses to becamatan level staff, and/or monitor the
trig  activities of conacted agencies. It is envisaged that the kabupaten training team
will also involve qualified NMOs. It will comprise at least two staff at the outset of the
project and expad as the project training initiatives grow.
23.   A project trainin coordinator will be appointed at the central level to coordinate
the vaious Waining programs planned by each agency. Overall coordinaion with NGOs
wil be achieved through eff ctive collaboration with NGO umorella agencies like the
ParticIpatory Development Forum at the national level. The traning coordinator will be



-fl2                           ANNEX 4
responsible for monitoring and maiaining consstenq In trainn policy and effectiveness
vis a vi the WSSLIC overall objectives. The coordinator will also be asisted by sector
HRD bodies such as the UNDP/World Bank  erntIonal Tr      Network (1N) In ti
regard. Formal linkages with both the ITN and NGO umbrella groups will be sought
during the first year of project implenon.
24.   lhe proposed schedule of training events for ft  first year of the project are
outed in Atament 3 to this Annex. The overall training meable for the life of the
project Is summized In the table below.



11e18MA-LilSl.I1l 2W11/92)              :Ct aN1?Y OSMI Aft t    M MNt IW TlEIr   ACTIVITIES IltwX Ar  miull i
...............................                    ............. .* :*                                         , ,;.                                          ;
tmllAWh IES                I         ATERI  I
ACITNIVITIE                    TINEI           GiTFT            NOSM IIILITY  I   rjSttaff                           Ina=$ily 35831  MMESj  333
......................... ......................... ----------                                                                                         .....  ..........
A.  ftUt ~MIl  MAJT NREPARTIIS                     A  I
fP-teCconas        t ion Mu.m.)
lt    n It t       Notest i.,ravilaslm       (d     ,                                                      .                        .
nw 1t 1^ Iraltw  {t )         .                        .    . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it st *wlIi
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as iteabi te
.                          .                        .                                    . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ededb prEojs
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf tie my .be.mif
t.t VIsit to vlllaes end mretingwth v1 Illae Leaden  t day                        fesmtzm  fapime. Mwi to 1tatrow                         fTraInnge bltes   Sttffste tee.
Kooals bOM, lotus BT, LEs, Ktot Ms. PU                                          oan & C.t          USSPIc A proecat                                      Iqata. Tees  eel
st;liVcm tloeedrs etc. to disess tbe foltisestn                                                    staff to cammisy                                      th.i   Ng,
lwojct  ote oko" motboolutegy                                                                                                                     SmIttsrisa, sa
prasant MIS e ttle In villea"                            . t,  ptted fore of   tESS                                                   farms 352 oltuatl  otbect It Is
-reletledio lp between laproved 115 I sail iqareved       ftintioniat/nmn funs                                                           .                _     edbat
aosvadArnsorvedU lecilltsl facItitateor o
-pateutlulpt l        seoed 11sS leclIltlz                                             K                                                                 fid Off
(visas free ceatnity ISSiNS)                                                                                                                       .     e h ird rItimt
-psetlenst sd answrs                                                                                                                                      or iletln  th e
1.2 Ibeting 91 wtth coailty to disus aboe topics I d4y                            IG_ten Iqpl_ma. NW to cnuwt a                           Tlinsn  i          des . Fe "a be a
(vile  from c<mailmty)                                                         lee  Kepeta Os a cumnlty meting                                                  af n tla
LES                                                                       or privaet mrdiv.
1.3  otIng with smltt oers, eap. In the sse         I dy                            et o te            e  to cor4ict                      Tro 1ng itsd eg
kaue  of target groqa sil wish wen                                             base 3 field Office? focus group
(TfO)              dlecussloen
1.4 tserotlmn of potetial atesr sac   1s           1-2 dwa  1. Chek list          PuslI_Ssbnitarlmn                                       cec list form
Indicated by comity) sad of USS ond tlawns                      .U tech. fucitiator
In a fe laus                                                                  too
L.S fletine  2 uIth c_selty to disc    tie folli   1-2 dpys                       OecRta Iqtteesn. kw to anlyze                          trainig tIoo
-?esult qf bsoeautlo   a dlcusslons                                            Te                  findins & make
brnnd for Isprovoid W   facilitiesdaetgs
reillirommo to lmprove il teci. tltoo
ensshImantm oe perntento Wer le cpta terd
soemaltln  Q mtm ti te p        epo Isot                           .:
. a praptllor atIym   t5tltld   . to   lat              I.pti   of tin                                                   
*  -apt ions fee cemat            alropnteon  *r  . .
1.6 Prepaatlo  ad  nWI  of frmi roeeysat to        1 day  1. tI_ t lotter &    Kles bees   LS                                           FU    IIect                            1
Eaeetes (via Cae) for praeadps with prjeot           .     caseploed forQ        .r.                                             .           K t. 
*                                      ;                                                                                .  i,  



(fIlesCUAtOO.I&1k  2 141/112)                                     ISPULC CCoN IT? SASD WPROA   -I)JECT INtEU4TIEI  ACTiVITiPS IATRIX Al tCIdiTI LI
s@.* ........,,.,**.^v*  ............................. ^.~^............................................................................................................................................................ .
l   l   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~TtLAININIG 100DUES                                          tUJEIAE &
ACIIVIIES                           T TuE   |UPU                            ESUOmISIIUTY    I  Project StTff    I    Cqlty                 IE5fi         NEEDED        RIltS
............................,,,,,,........ .................... ......................... ...... ..................,.............    ..4,.................
NOTEt  Cross visits to other   Cirs sIt  I                                         Vrisits                  n i le..
US  tAlltitl    en  bta   ple       o  ter  Otltr                                          t,  llempolro D m"          .
'rlrs prject plamlnr  period) if nese ry                                                     ID                      .          .
....................................................... .............. ........ ............ ....................... .................... ..........                   ................ ........  ..................
A.   CtUuITY PROJECt PIPAATIOII (centl1 )
(Pre-Canstrsation Phase)*.
Stoe 2   Forostlon of Vlltae Veter and Sanitetion              2i * k)
clmttee (MC)t
2.1 Dlscuasion of roles end responsIbilltles of VWSC   I day   1. List of roles and    Kecinten laplesan.  Roais  & responal-  Rotes & pesponsi- i. Training   oAblea
responsibitictis        ream                   billties ol WSC   bititits of WsC  2.  SsPLIC design
2.2 Development of Job descriptons IL quatificatlons   1 day   1. Job descriptions                 Kacanmts  lopien.  gm  to develop             Developing lb    traiinng mhales
for each metb er of WSC and subcomlttees                                                      Tea                     Job description    descriptions
2.3 Selection of mosers of WSt and aub-ciittees                I Week      List of mre  for    etel Desa, OD.                                                                               Comittees can be
. Insure that womn are represented In all stur                         te faoil. sb-com    P    nd other                                                                               ezisting ersnor
casmittess)                                                            1. Resuce   bIlta  villgse leaders                                                                              ne  grrops
2. Nygienesanitetlo
3. Technicalt                                                                                                    llmra  cn be
4. oper   NIalntenno                                                                                             called "kederM or
other preletred
2.4  Ilal tralning for tsSC In NWeu to cnsat ani              2 days  1. Survey plen               FO and Sanitarlan    Ioo  to condilet         CorActino           Training modules    name
analyze a ceammity setf survey                                                                                        cosmumity survey   cams. wurve  9
a anaalye  data       analyzing date
,....... ... ....................... ................ ...           ,          .................. ............ ................. ........... ................... ............. ................
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~.
A.   C"UJSI1Tl   OJECT PlEPABATION Coantiuws)
gPre-tno ction Phase)
Stage  3:  Preparation of Villte Action Plan (VP)              1+ mo)
3.1 Technical surveO   and analysis                           2 weeks 1. Tectnictl survey dot PU Tech. fecilitator Ra0w to condrAt               Conrcting teh.  1. Training moles beDctele   tecllnical
(gener   survey to provide indicatiln of                           2. Analysis report         L WS/Tech sub-coam. tecmnical surrvey   s             6           2.  uestialra          srvy   deg
options I passibilties)                                                                                               anelyze data          analyzig data    3. check  I1st            can ocur In St
B.asic eqIlsment 3. 4 or S
3.2 Moter quality survey and aenlysls                          1 wek  1. Meter quality srvy Saniterlen (NW                                                           water quailty
data                    K*W4 ten lab)                                                     testing equilpmnt
2. Analysifa report
3.3 Cammity self surv    nWd analysis (for batselIne   I week  1. cam. stf survey    Saniterlen. fO A                                                                oueaotlo lre
data and for planing  P)                                              date                    W5C (A assltance
water aply A sanitation situatlon                                  2. AnalysIs reprt          from  local tniv. If
-soaeconomic situation                                                                        reqired)
- eIth                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
3.4 Presentation of teenal apt ilo   for discusslon   I d               1.  sater sapt stima    s Ketan Ispla.                                                                             r$1?t n
wIap l ty a  (eptl  nn Inctlb rshbilitatlo                         2. Sanitation aptim          e   A 11115                                                                            eaietb obat potem
or lev an ef euistint .te.)                                                                                                                                                             _duid be th
:.                                          . 9 



(IlleCRaC-IAi.I.9tt 20/11192)                              IASPSIC CWUUITY IL $D  APPR0N * POJftCT INPWtN ATIO  ACtIVITiES NATltIX AT cWIb11T tam
........................................  .............................................................................................................
TS1111114 l"lLES           I       lfAMLE &
ttlVltlES  ~               tIE|I Ii5tACT                                             rlc  Staff   |    Cemsty               REsOZRLS MEEDHI     I       S
ACTIVITIES                         TINE!             ENTPUT            RESPOMIIS8LITT   I project saf I cm                t     IommAsB  NEDD&ew
T~.....  ............................... ..................,.,......,,,. .,.. . ,,....... . ..,............  ............  . ..--,
3.5 Selection of technicat optiln by comeulty te. Technical cptlons                           epl Doese   KD                                             Avilable fundin
water supply GM  sanitation systems                               statetnt              VUSC facilitated                                             fro   Vi.Ci
FU tech. Facilitator                                         cmuity
3.6 Preiltmirary designs of selected tedchtnAl optins  2  et  1. Prelminary Jeslin   Pl Tech  Facilitetor Now to design               Designing  repp . 1. Training modules Vomn  need to be
Inliudlng hsste water disposal sytem fr tof USAcm Sai  Ct.  a ap priate   ss   AS  oystems                                                           2. Design eIFent cosulted in
faciltitle  )                                                                          PWcontractor (If    system                                                         design especto
Prmperstlon of cost estimtes aii apected                      2. Prt iinrwy cost            ase  ae           le te make est   Pre cari   eost   tralilng mdAles    Detailed cot
costs for qpetlon and mintenance ( )                             ecziatesA bucget                             estimates I tget astimateV and                              estivates ca
bget                                    occur In Stage
4 or 5
3.7  agWotlatian of type &  _mt of ce-ety                1-2 days 1. Agret-vat doctmnt   Keeaatan bopletnen.                                             eelt   ttes
contributlon according to project c:sterls and                   an tpe A    ot of  Team, Ktepola  as.                                               buget
cossnity ecoeie  situation                           p           contrilatin by         w.D a WMSC
ems_ity A USSPLIC
3.8  Prep" ration of Villtge  Action Plan (VAP) and  1 I weed   1. Villge Action Plan  Kaels Oees, LKMO.  Nlow to develop VAP Developing YAP    I Training moie stes                  o d      oe
sloasleion to USStLIC for sowrelos  & aeroal                                            v sc facilitated b                                           2. Forn. V1P         the YpAP?   petas
(Inctte gneral plens on village inatitutional                                           fo b Pu Tecinicalt                                              Application       6 Province?
arangments, USE, recuirce mobilization a OIN)                                           facililtator
..................,,...:..................................................................,..........................................i....
A.    'UIITY POECT PRIPAAITIO  (catInltim )
(Proconstruction Pbase)                                                                                                                                                                          4
Staep 4t  Vilttpe Voter & Slitatien Ctadittee               64-                                                                                                                tralnings  spread
(WSO) Developnent A lrelning                    time                                                                                                                 out ente tuo Y"ra
4.1 Series of training for VWSC medetr  Ins                        1. Organitatlnal chart  ecomatan leplemen. flo  to traln VWSC  Leadership            Training  oitles
*cassication skills                                           2. Admin. 'smanuil5      V '  (with support  In leabdership         ptoleo-solvinw
'leadership                                                                            iom Kab Training    probleu-solving    ors/adeinistratol
-preblt-salving                                                                                              ora/ndanlrotln e.
,otganizatIon A aitlnltration of WMC                                                                         tec.
-mseta" mbilisatlon
*hginaw edmtatin
-bboo  eping & teport wItinrg (siva amtahds)
-pspr atlon for construction
-ate.
4.2 Prprat Ion of ork plans by WSC oad                            1.  orik plan             ro a WSC               low to train UlS  Devleping work   Training Iat
SJh-eooilteos                                                                                                 In developing       work
work plan
4.3 Deateopet of detailed reseaure sabiltation                   1. Rea. Ntt. atrotey   rOa A VWR source  flow to Identify    identlfytin               training meslzes
stratogy w       plans                                           and pl                  obilization S       resources            resoeuces
Clmittee
4.4 Dhvteopsnt ol detalled  yiaene and snitation                  1. ISE stratew  and       Sanitarlan, hS/SE  fo  to develop         Dvelopti  US       1. training  Ades o 
Zucstion (onE) strategy ad plan                                  plens                 t-CaM, R8dert    ISE sttategy Wnd   strategy t ptxw  2. ME data
PMZ & teachers        plans
.   X    1,   b.  * . t. *s~~~~~~~~~I, 
; 



(filtesCM-L.ktskl    irIC   IUhIV MM  APIISSPICI *                                                 !CT )JNUATIOI ACTIVITInS i;lklIX At cmMUITt Law:
. I      I                                .             I          mmT Nvs NlME$              I   NAMIAL &
ACTIVITIES                     I TONe               aTUPT 0ESItLiTY                       Project staff   I   cammity               1CS*   M EERDom
4.S      u      eof water   l                                  iiwr_nt program  . 'Vater quality  j           130w to leroy.                     .T.ris
4.5 f4svuteramnt of Istar quality loprovemehit proer        f  control progrea                                ter qu ilr       qalIty
NOJEt betilted timeal  dealgs   ro sat stiates                                               .
can alo be hrosrtaken *rlrg Stow  4 or S                                                                     .
................. ...................................... .... ...... ....... . ........ .................... .................           ----             ................. .................. . .*
A.  CMIIYT FREtT  PSIPARATION (aetiuwas)
(ProCntruotienFPlies)..
stage so  ilittatien Part 1s                             (6*    )
-esQU01t Ibbilmaatien Pr rm
-tygimnejSmnitmtien EOdet en Pat I
tEcnmil actlvltle  will be started If
tmlble) 
5.1 tsplemntatln of r weurce sbilixatlon plan  for en-goalg 1. tocal material             VWSIRes lilititon 1. Hec to ambillze 1. Resoce              1. Traing  adlus Re,. mob. I on
-locfl matorial                                             2. in-kind               Sub-Comittea             resolres            mobilIzation   2. Ilel,  ot         goaolve  tlvity
-In kind                                                     3. Cash                                        2. Sow to *e n_e    2. sea.  e     t     sipe boo          throuout project
cash                                                                                                          resources           baodtpkaeping satem
S.2 Learning reout credit otlons, sp. for household              1. NOI financial ceapbi- w/Ies Ilobilluation 1. Now to identify S. IdM.wification 1. Tralning mxlss
Us system  A/or   wwcti ens aiW latrime                          li eV statemts Su hComlttee                   A uwe credit        use of credIt 2. Credit Info
2. uI  applicatior for                        2. Nom to conuct 2. fin. capoblit 3. Credit ofllcials
credit                                        financial cap.      review
review
3. N    to OlY    3. AMpvlingtr fo
for credit         credit
5.3 tlptentatien of MS! Part I p                        on-gaing I- tlt totpc             WS/ilE stb-cammitte 1. Now to develop  1. Devlping ISE 1. Traning moaelos Possible stage
MES will be based on needs of v liesel                       2.: Wgien  ettiotors   IPAl A Psosysobu           US wmap             wesaes"        U. !6ac material    for UsE prosreo
3.  essages            facilitated by        2. Kow to aiolect & 2. Selecting A    3. leoabt Info
Sapleft oPrt I of nSE lbefore csatuetIon)                    4. fc  sateritl          puskesm/es/anitarian    train viltla         tralinnl                            a. selection of
*pAi  awarenes buliding                                      S. Deolvery ation plen  n  fo                    hyien               Village ty".                            topic
-dilslastIon of Info e  water-bomr  disases                                                                   *dwcatoar           *edcator                            b. Rtecutmeltnt of
-hylie    edcation an care of existing water                                                                3. Nom to develp  3. Ititating A                              VIllago" bygte
aewos (e.g., wells), sate tra_eot and use o                                                                  monit. A evtl       evaluatir   S                           eatra
water                                                                                                         of U#  progren     prer"                                e. Oelc M  of
Mt 3   activltiat  rwe ewoiu                                                                                                                                                   Derlt tbe  . D letao
project with the hop  that W" cestio   wril a                                                                                                                            5ssSSf
contima them byond projct life                                                                                                                                       f. Iv atit of
mase lepe*t
5.4 Relew feilbllty of ed pluAen eeds oragt
(e4., bairn I   lation Gn  credit for  omtni
If Mr        tleate then this pogre  o id
alit Utti pet catructlmn peited
.t . ........ ............................. . ................... ................... ........................................................ . ..................... . i3i
.t..4. .4                                                                                                                         ..  .
;         t                                          ,                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~



(F1s6tScA-LCSI *t XV1/92)                                UV IC OIMNi     "  SMa   APUWM  * USt lWLEIATiCs  It               IES NATAh  AT    .hITT LW
. ....,.,,,,............... ,........................ .................. _......... ,.................. I................................................. *.................................. . ..
lUlIltilil IIt. S         I                    I
tiVitin                          t omE             aIt            IRESMISIUI            Project Staff   I       JAtty      j usa:ts n w 
*-.-_,,,........ . ...................... ...... ^........... ......................... .................. ....                        ----------------
E.  UITiiCTIO  0 fACILtllS                                                 .
(Csgtnietl u s..)..
Stage St  iqSmtatlan Pert 2:                                 a me
*CestJfcl  of bcisel Murk
-Iygiena/San1 Ction Education Pawt 2
6.1 Devel ent        e         f contruction wart plan from     1. Detailed work plan  WSITech sbcmilt m   to dvelop             Oewelopi" of       1. tantoig matles
approved village action Plan:                                                       I acilitated by       cotrctlon wart conhtruc  on ut2. lechnicat desin
-construction logistics                                                             Puskee/n terla  plan & rewire"e  ptne   requireft
*etiiledAauektlted lebor requirements                                               5  eTch. facilftator
mtatrial reqarahent 6 eroeawmt
-censtrsuetion leel
-etc.
6.2 Confirmation I arrangent for fwilng allocation              1. VSSPLIC hfilng         a4atmn              1 om to arrange Jo r rrangig fading I. TraIning mehdl
frm uSSPLIC an  from coailty                                   allocatItn  chue   Vecaan lplmen.  funding allocation   locaetlgan              2. Appraved VAP
2.  =unity funding    te.  lepta Desa,                                                buet
attocetion eheslA. U:     L USC
3. funde
6.3 Artengemnt for material procuraent from WSSlIC              1. Ntatrial procureent Keaten 1               1. oe to arrae  1. Arransing for  1. training modules
end fron camaity Including quality control 6                   esbedule fr VSPLIC  Kecet_   n   lpiean.      for aiterial       material       2. Material
preaeurn  5ch    1eg.  ,2. Local coterial                                            Dem    =p      ese, ee  proarnt            procrem nt         reqairements
delivery  cheehile   LtI  L WSC           2. ow to coeiuct 2. Conshcting
Iras caommity                                quality control   qwuity COttRO
3. Material
6.4 Agreement on diveston of labor between coaity               1. stgned areement on aspeten                                                                           As  c  mark es a
ant contrectore (it used) and preparation of                   work plans for cam   Kctan lapleman.                                                                 poible shouid b
specific work pion  for asci grop                              a contractors        Team  Kepeat Daer,                                                              done bRocsel.y;
2. Uark sc#eedwies      tlXlD & W-t                                                                     coail at h u
leeks can bo dn
4.3 Iraining for VM  lecuslcat  SaN atb-camitteee                  Trained srb-         Pw$kiei/snitarlan lo  to construct   Cotructing             Traning m les  bt contrector
tIrawe thbt wen  are represented In OtN                        coasittees             l ec. facillitator  seletted US ai     eltected Vs ad
sbcittee NWl troined)                                                                                     sanitation sptem  sanitation sytem
6.6 Constructlon of water ouply system                             Po. of water system  Tlec. facilitator                                           I. funds
W/Taechb 5t-Com.  a                                        2. Technical dlon
MlUcentractor IIf                                          3. Materiel
a.i Implemantation of 1SE Part 2 prograe               en-going                         re4dred)
1. Latrines             W/Taeci Sub-Cam.   1. Dow to pton        1. Plmling sani- 1. Training modules
Plainning A contruction of sanitation                       2. Other sanitation ep  facilitated by           sonitatlon fee.   tation facillt 2. sanitation fec.
facilities-cschool latrinm. tueusebotd lattinets                                   Pusemas/nI tarin    construction            comltructln        Into
cammal facilities                           .                                        Tecb. fecilitator  2. Raw to decIde  2. Deciding on
*Uienie edotlan on vroper use  id mintenaae                                                                 on ero. ay.   e             system
of   nleation fecllit eo                                                                               3. iou to design   3. Designing
eniJt. yapteam     alit. sytem
6.8  anhtourlag  olity of satruetion                                                   xeemotenmpti.  Mw to monitor    Meniterlng
TeamS a W5t             ltlty of        qallty o
constructed WS   cr tunted  111                                               ii1
systemse                                          .           .               |  B1



TIN  OMMT                             Project ~~~~~~staff   I   CoeMflty I RESinCES IfESI
6.910AProvevieanda -u wtn  tf eseeded (imdiihat uW    "I'll se                                    = ,*,amr             ~*I 
c"tan go through PSD,                                     fronKam tnTa
bw  wsalso can be from camelsity,
lft o v evrnuent eta.)                                   IIII
C.    UATIUI AND NATIMINNC  (MMII
tPe.t-Colotrut Ion Phaset)
stage 7s rqwratiai & Nalestenanc  by cwanalty          (3, sos)
7. ActivatIon of O1X esfrcomsttee by reviewIng                 1. cm) aadb*cualttee   tacecmtsi Ieptmen.
mWeb.e and makIn  substlgutliam If nw"eesry                   that meat criteria  Team, 115 A VWC
7.3 Trafning of OIN sub-ceimttee                      .        1 . Trained meaoers     pus&eeea.suanltsdan Wmos to manse 0K  Naeaet of (1N tratining modues
(inctludos ailtiensl tedhnical traIning)                                             Tedh. facitItator  of coepleted IJIS  of=ceplled USS
systems            systems
7.3 Dowteopment of GIN ptan iditch include,                    1. List of rules & roegs MlIGI Suhs.Cmmitte Now to deveop GUN Development of
-nAs*a & resuatlons (IncludIng sanctlens)                  2. List of roles S      1*91 facititated by plan                D51N plan
-rotes & responIbIliitIes                                    rsnsbltite$           tech. Fac(itator
-IlK buget                                                 I1)1 kZaa
*asromt of user fee I coltection schecule                 4. tUssr fee collection
,etc.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~schedute
7.  ieftemntation of tser fee and collection                   1. 01)6 fewau           VISI0SH  sub-COmmItto kwe to manag user Naaaetof    Traininig VA4alea
2. We* accomunt                              tf   ulsus ee fusts
7.5 Regular imnitoring of 691 systems                          1. lmnitorIng repotsj  WI/GI  Sib-Camltte Now to monItor    Montoring of    Troining madttlsa
1155 system        IS  systems
7.6 Nonttorip  of seater qaslI ty and ettyrseustat             1. Teat resutts         VAIM/IN Sub-Cgmmltte
control plus follow u
7.7 cantiaiutlin of sanitation syptems eonstructlon            1. No. ofsnanit. system mIs/tech stJC-CamNsitt
7. ContfinutIon of NUs progwts isplameetation                  1. teports              WSI/USu b-Cumltto Refresher comrses Refresher carvess
PS     Posyn"dw
stags B, Program to Assist Sustainmbillty
3.1  caae.
Iv. PRoonaT NUiTUINI & EVAURATION l 
(byv Coanustty. 6CM and US)



ANNEX 4
79-                       Attachment 2
YX!LL&O ACfXON PLAN POUT
kenn lZnformatlon
eesmatant                                     Distance of desa to Kee.:       km
Rabupaten:                                     Distance of desa to Kab.:       km
trovinces                                      Distance of desa to Prov.:  -    m
Total Village Population:                     Total KK:
Total Village Population to be served:        Total KK to be served:
1.   Villaae Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSCI:
(a)   Establishment of VWSC
-     Date of establishment
-     Organizational arrangements:
* Shall include a Secretary, responsible for maintaining records of
meetings; and logbooks recording breakdowns and repairs of the
water and sanitation scheme;
 Shall include a Treasurer responsible for maintaining accurate and
up-to-date financial records, in accordance with LKND financial
rules;
e Shall include a person responsible for the technical components
such as supervision of the construction, of O&M and evaluation of
W8S.
-     Number of participants
(b)    rorfile of VWSC members
Eams              Positin            Experience in LKMD/Lembaca
2.
3.                                      _      _
4.



ANNEX 4
-80-                      Atchment 2
2. e         _a s
-    Water supply coverage
* by existing sources
* by population
o percent (%) population without adequate water supply coverage
-    water supply reliability
o source of water in dry season
o average distance walked in dry season
Sanitation coverage
o number of households with latrines
* percent (%) with hygienic latrines
3.   Selection of Technical Ootion:
(a)  Water system - Ootion No. 1 (considered):
(i)   Technical descrlption (include copy of deslgns, sketch map
counter-signed by Public Works representatLves)
(ll) Estimated cost of system
- supply of materLals
- construction costs
(iii) Community contributlon guaranteed by VWSC
- cashs Rp
- local materials: Rp.
- labor: Ep.
Total community contribution: Rp. _
Requirements of project funds: Rp.
Likely OGM gap (if any) Rp.
(Lv)  Estimated project costs Rp.
(v)   Construction schedule
(b)  Water sXstem - 2Ction No. 2 (considered):
(i)   Technical description (include copy of desLgns, sketch map
counter-signed by Public Works representatives)
(ii) Estimated cost of system
- supply of materLals
- construction costs



ANNEX 4
-81-                       Attacbmnt 2
(iii) Community contribution guaranteed by VWSC
- cash: Rp
- local materials: Rp.
- labor: Rp.
Total community contribution: Rp. _
Requirements of project funds: Rp.
Likely O&M gap (if any) Rp.
(lv)  Estimated project costs Rp.
(v)   Construction schedule
(a)   Final-selection of technoloav by VWSC:
(to include reasons for choice)
(d)   Sanitation investments identified for private financina:
(i)   Number,  type  and  proposed  location  of  latrLnee  to  be
constructed and/or improved;
(LL) Number of latrine pans required, persons responsible for
dlstributLon;
(CiL) Number of SPAL to be constructed, wlth proposed locations; and
(lv)  Arrangements for solid waste disposal (lf applicable).
4.    Trainig and  gvaiene Education RecuiremQnts:
(a)   list of persons having already received training under the Project,
including type of training received.
(b)   list of persons needing training or additional training.
5.    Resources Mobilized for Construction:
(a)   Cash: amount (not less than 4% of total estimated cost), collection
method, target date for total collection (such date to be before
start of construction)
(b)   Local materlal (type and amount, collection method)
(c)   Labor (number of persons and time when avaLlable)
(d)   Land granted, including right of passage on land during construction
(s)   Other sources of funds



ANNEX 4
-82. -acment 2
6.   OM Cost Bancver
(a)  Netimated cost of operation and maintenanc  (per hosehold per month)
(b)   Source of funds
* from commnities
o other
(e)   Zstablishment of mechanisms and rules for the collection and
management of the funds, includLng:
o recovery of full contribution from households
o maintenance of Bank Account or other methods
* maintenance of financlal records
, timing of collection
7.*   La_mam-refleotLn  bIndl= gotre  f VAR Ed _a-             a M   thei.
8. *   Lanatuwes of authoLge  reoreenA=LMS
o     ovillage head
*    head of Kecamatan



ANNEX 4
- 83-                            A nachmed  3
Number of trainees by tainng category per year
____________  _____________                |_ 9s3194   9419S       51f96      9697       97198       TOt
Central            Pngectp1anning &                70                                                      70
mt.anagemt                               _    _        _I  
Provincial         Poject planning &              160                                                     160
District           Pwann.g, maageat, &            2s2        270        198         234          0        954
I ___________       ovaluation
conetructio& OfM               28         30          22         26          0         106
isalth Ed., ommunity           28         30          22         26          0         106
manAgement                                               
_____________  Waub Quality Contra                 28         30          22         26          0         106
Distict sub4otals:                            336         360        264         312          0       1272
_   ._._   ..   _  .........   . . MOMOMM-   1 01  r  _                             . _ M .IM _ 
Sub-distict        Pzject Iauagement              120        320        336         332         80       1180
oonarucoon & O/M               90        240         252        249         60         891
!__________  lI1SE, income Gen.                   lS0         400        420        415         100       1485
Wate quality conto             60        160         168        166         40        594
Sub-disrict subv-totals:                      420        1120       1176        1162        280       4158
|     g.                 ._     _.     ;  ..,                  .    . 1m                   _- r.
Village            P lawnng & Mginmt             1700       6450       9225        9300       4600      31,275
Cmnsdrucion & O/M             340       1290        1845       1860        920        6255
U HSE                           680       2580       3690        3720       1840      12,510
_______________   WIID & Income G0a.             2380        9030      12,915     13,020!      6440     43,785
V      llagesubtotdl:                        5100      19,350      27,675     27,900      13,800    93,825
Toii s: ,                                        6086     20,830      29,5       29,374      14,080     99,485



-84-                            ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                               PROJECT
1mnMnTATnON AGENCIES A    ORGANZAON CmR
1.    Attached are organization charts showing the various agencies involved in the
hmplementation of the project. Thes charts outline the structure of authority, the function
of releva  agencies and their specific responsibilities in the planning and impemetion
of WSSLUC project. Included also are oudines of key processes and flow of finds. Miese
chas complement those in the text where a matrix is also presented showing in greater
deail intional assigmnent of roles and responsibilities for implenting various project
tasks.
2.    Also atached is a list of decrees (SKs) Xh  need to be issued to legalize the
assigtnmen of roles and functions of government agencies and key staff in project
Implementation.



!1 il1    !                         -                 p -l
"i a Q!Q    
F.  ... ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .  .  ....
----------------- -            X



- 86 -                            ANNEX S
CHART a
DISBURSEMENT OF IBRD FUNDS SPECIAL ACCOUNT
!                                               I
!                                               I
!Resh.n                                          ln1i
I                                               l
!                                               I
}        -G ~   RllUr                 SANK INjONSIA
aCUETa t (ND)            ACCOUN
SPMRK i
Nob
PROVINCIAL                                        CA- ANG
KPKN                      _                   (SPECIAL -
. *                                           AcCO2 UNTr
SPP
PROJEC   to. .p
RW"frpayment
Request for feplenIsmen
-- ---  Requetfor payment                      hEKW53B6A
Order to pay
_-----Pororf



II | * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-;--- s-------
,lilt!                           i,  ii:...  .,g. 
lul l  I W____m   
1   51    1  1                ''~~~~~~~~~--------    
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  .  .-* . .X             
I                                             1
-a - -x--
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
* ~.    ..    ...a  



LIST OP 'SURAT KVUMSAW(DECROllS) POR WSSLUC
ASPECr            LEVEL           PURPOSE                   SU|ICT                     TO BE ISSUED BY              TIME
Organimtion        Cai             Coordinat         FCC + TCC Esbbmmst_,               BAPPENAS, Deputy n         Dos
-rhip. _
. Secdet                           Dep. K _iiatan             Done
estblsment, membe, oprtiona       DO PPM & PLP
ptoceae                           Bappea. Pp. if
woiking Group:                      saena, Dep. n ftoeer
etabHismt, composilon,            with D6CCI (KI  I)
opriond pocdum                     DO PL (KK II)
DO Bassols(KK ID)
Project         Ercujiv. Agew                       DO PPM & PLP
Administatidon   Pimpro DIP Depkes.                 DO PPM & PLP
Pimpro DIP PU                     DOCK
Pimpro INPRES Bangda              DO Bangda
Pinpro INPRES Bagdos              DO Bangdcs
Province        Coordination     TC Propinsi                        Gubemaur                                             00
Seretariat Psopisi                Gubeiur
Project          Pimpro DIP Depkes. in Dinkes lIc I    DO PPM & PLP
Adaninstation    Pimpro DIP PU in Dianas PU Tk I    DOCK
Pimpro INPRES in Biro Bangda      Gubernur
Pimpro INPRES in Dit. Bangdes     DO Bangdes
District        Coordination      Kabupaten Impl. Team              Bupati/Walikot
P"oect           Pimuno INPRES in DPUK              Bupatilwalikota
Administration   Pimpro INPRES in Dinkes            BupatifWalikota
Pimpro INPRES in Dag. Pembanganal   BupatilWalikota
Pimpro INPRES in Kantor Bangdes   BupatiiWslikla
DO Bangdes
Pimbagpro DIP in DPUK             DOCK                                                ii
Pimbgpto DIP In Dinkes            DO PPM & PLP
Organization       KCcamatan       Coordination      KX_mat  Impenentation Tam         Cmat
O nzation          Den             Cost Reovery      Wililgeess to pay 0 & M           Kepele DOaB
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .__ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ .   Cost by    co nu u ty  I



~~~~.I1                                                                    -          A- 
fUlt. ..........       . . ...
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO                         flflDP/SV?'''  3.3 
F 1i              i-.~                         1fD23                 I
U-ms  ~     ~      43I)  -D P/S U?
!         I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  .- ,                                                        I  
.                               r  - -;~~*  - -I
....', . t..                          I~~~~~~~~........
...    .............. ........................ ....    ... ............ ..... ......................... .... .
.                                                  .
.~~~~~~~~~ .~                                             s
.  Gba    .    +                                                      ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fll SlEa1  :    1X 3al       i 11    aSl1                      Si 
s  7fl:xu;IUV5)                 P/ a UnE?n 8 
5i 2:2t{hI1                     '681



-90-                           ANNEX 6
NDONS
WATER SUPPLY    SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                              PROJECT
TH  WATER SUPLY COMPONENT
Exisig Siaion
1.          The water resources situation in Indonesia is characterized by the climatic
and hydrogeological differences prevailing over a wide archipelago. The Project provinces
which lie east of the Wallace Line (passing between Bali and Lombok islands) display
distinct features characterized generally by prolonged dry seasons that affect Southern
Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Southern part of South East Sulawesi and several isolated
areas in Central and North Sulawesi provinces. Serious waer scarcity in these areas
occurs during the last months of the dry season as result of dry air transport by the Eas
Monsoon from Northern Australia. Water scarcity in these areas is common, exerting a
heavy demand on the communities in fetching water. The poor and remote comnamitI
which are normally situated in the more difficult areas, suffer most from lack of easily
accessible water resources. In Central Java where rainfall pattern is more favourable,
water resources are generally available except in coastal plains where brackish shallow
groundwater exists creating a serious shortage in supply of potable water.
2.          In most areas, the communities use traditional water sources such as
springs, rivers, shallow groundwater and sometimes rainfall. Unprotected dug wells,
usually of shallow depth levels, have been predominantly used by the rural communities.
Data on service coverage levels do not exist specifically for the project areas, however,
it is assumed that coverage in the six provinces are lower than the average levels given for
water supply and sanitation, i.e. 30% and 25% respectively. The proposed project will
serve an additional population of about 2 million people in 1414 villages in the project
area. The level of service to be provided will be based primaily on community water
supply systems.
Proposed Water Supply Component
3.          The provincial proposals did not, in general, favor the use of groundwater
through point sources such as shallow and deepwell handpumps. Reasons for lack of
demand are varied: (i) poor perfonnance of the handpumps in the past; (ii) communities'
preference of piped systems; and (iii) existence of private dug wells seen to be more
reliable than the handpump schemes. Selection of the water supply technology is based
foremost on its adaptability to local conditions and demand by the conunities.
Preparation of fte village action plans require that the tecnological options need to be
presented and discussed with the community before final decisions are made. Whatever
the technology used, a technicaiy well designed and properly constrcted system will



- 91-                         ANNEX 6
definiely contribute to sustalnability if well conceived (in social, economical and fnancial
terms) by the community. Wifth this concept, WSSUC adopted the following categories
of water supply sysms.
Table 1: WATER SumY CATEGoRIEs
Category               Description
Type A              Large pipad systems serving a number of villages
Type B              Medium/small piped systems
Type C (piped)      Sinple piped schemes
Type C (non-piped)   Simple non-piped schemes, point sources
4.          Ie number of villges that are proposed to be served and systems to be
consructed are given in Table 2.
Table 2: NoIOP SW NUMBER OF VLLAGES Am WATER SYSTE
Category           VilHages          Systems
TypeA                 152               38
Type B                170              170
Type C (piped)        671              671
Type C (non-piped)    421              421
TOTAL               1,414             1,300
Piped Water Supply Systms
S.          In general, piped waer supply schemes have been the preferred option in
the provincial proposals. Typical sysems considered for WSSLIC have the following
composwion: (i) protected spring source with tranamision line and distribution under
gavity; (u) protected elevated surface water source (river or lake with gravity flow into
distribon); (di) bore well with pumping to reservoir and distribution by gravity; and (iv)
urface water requiring pumping and treatm. Among the the systems considered,
graviy flow spring sources are explicitly preferred in order to minimize operational costs
and for ease of mai ence. Initial invesument costs may work to be hihr for the
gravity supplies than a pumped groundwater supply from a nearby source. However, if
well deigned, te gravity systems remain the more attractive option and definitely more
sustnable, provided that the spring source is within 5-10 kn away from the supply area.
6.          The layout for the piped supply schemes shall be designed for public taps
or pdvate house connecions with the limitation that no more than 50% of the supply will



-92-                          ANZX 6
be consumed privately. House comnections will be fully paid for by households demading
tfiem. To energize a pumped system, electric supplies are usually not available for the
remote areas and diesel power may have to be used. Although diesel power is cheaper,
supply of fuel to distant locadons and operation and maintenance may create problems.
The project also considered the use of solar powered pump systems in joint cooperation
wih the Ministry of Research and Technology which already has installed several
schemes. For treatment of surface waters, the preferred method is slow sand filttation
which is comparatively cheaper to build, appropriate for rural areas and simple to operate
and maintain. Design criteria for piped water supply schemes is attached to this Annex
and considered appropriate for the rural areas.
Non-piped Water Supply Systems
7.          Non-piped systems or point sources can equally provide safe water supply
satisfying the standards of drinking water quality. Typical facilities considered for
WSSLIC are: (i) protected dugwell with appropriate lifting device or equipped with a
handpump; (ii) small diameter well fitted with shallow or depwell handpump; (iii)
protected spring captation without distribution systems; (iv) rainwater collectors; (v)
infiltration gallery provided with handpump; and (vi) direct withdrawal of surface water
with adequate household treant. Among the point source facilities, conmmnities have
been exceptionally familiar in using dugwells. Furthermore, they are also involved in the
construction of dugweils which require basically simple construction techniques using
available tools, equipment and materials in the community. Of importance, would be the
protection of dugwell from outside containion. Sanitary protection measures shall be
applied and hygiene and sanition component will promote the hygienic use of the
facilities. The distance between the dugwell and the source of contamination, such as a
latrine, needs to be at least 10 meters.
8.          Wells fmed with shallow and deepwell handpumps provide water that can
meet drinking water quality standards. When groundwater table is less than 7 meters
including seasonal flucuions, suction type handpump is the most attractive option and
the pump cylinder is placed above the ground. Between 7 and 15 meters, direct action
pumps are considered, and for deepwell applications, deeper than 15 meters, deepwell
landpumps are proposed. On account of the high failure rates of handpumps in Indonesia,
WSSUC considered that (i) communities need to be familier with and support the
handpunp scheme; (ii) quality of the handpump should be of an acceptable standard; (iii)
local manufacturing capabilities exist; (iv) operation and maintenance can be undertaking
by the communities; and (v) communities should have easy access to a properly distributed
spare parts system.
9.          Before embarking on a wide scope of handpump application, above
considerations and other requirements such as well drilling and handpump instlation, well
design, quality control and training would have to be fither developed. For this purpose,
provision is included in WSSUC for improving the handpump program through activities
integrated in the water supply component and proposed to be implemented inidally in
Central Java for wider application subsequently in the other provinces.



-93 -                         ANNEX 6
10.          Rainwater collectors are proposed for areas with water scarcity or in areas
where potable water is not available. Collected either from roof structures or from open
ground reservoirs, sufficient storage is required for rainall as a water source to supply
over periods of dry weather. In WSSLIC, rainwater is considered only as an option if no
other source is readily available or as a supplementay supply.
Frt-Year Water Supply Program
11.          Under the programmatic approach adopted, First-Year program is prepared
in detail. For the starter areas, Type C piped and noti-piped systems are planned. Five
Type A and B systems in Central Java, originally included in the First-Year program, have
been defrred to Year-Two on acount of the size and complexity of projects and time
needed to prepare feasibility and detailed designs. Consewquently, a total of 44 water
supply systems are planned for First-Year implementation (34 pipe4 systems and 10 non-
piped) with a total construction cost of about Rp 6.0 biDlion excluding contingencies.
system Unit Costs
12.          An analysis of the unit costs for different categories of water supply
systm  for the srer areas, has led GOI to adopt average costs for the Five-Year
Progrm. Accordingly, an average cost of Rp 65 miilion per village were used for Type
A, B and C piped systems and Rp 27 million per village for Type C non-piped systems.
These figures represent construction costs and do not include physical and price
contingencies. Although these costs appear to be on the low side as compared to the
strer area costs, nevertheless, they are comparable to costs of low-cost water supply
tchnologies.
Deda Critera
13.          Piped Water Supply: Table 3 presents the design criteria for the piped
water supplies. To achieve a certain consistency and uniformity between all water supply
schemes proposed, it was considered necessary to base aUl designs on a conmnon set of
citeria. These criteria are given as a reference rather ta rigid rules to be followed
under different circumstances.
14.          Non-piped Water Supplies: The following criteria, in general, will be
applied for the non-piped systems:
Maximum walkdng distance to supply point:              100 m
No. of users per public supply point:               50-100 m
Maximnum elevation difference:                         20 m
(waling distance may exceed 100 m)
Water consumption for domestic use:                   20 lpcd



-94-                           ANNEX 6
Table 3: DE81GN CmrmlA oiF PDn RuluL WATE  SuWLY SYM
1.  Service:
(a) House Connection/HC /o/h             60                90
(b) Public Hydrant PH/I/o/h              30                30
2.   Populion served                           60100%           60-100%
3.   Ratio of HC/PT
HC                                       0-50%             50-80%
PH                                       100-50%           50-20%
4.   Non Domestic Use
(% from domestic)                        0%                5%
5.   Loss of Water
(% from production)                      20%               20%
6.   Flow Factors
(a) Daily Manimum                        1.1               1.1
(b) Hourly Maximum                        1.5              1.5
7.   User per unit:
(a) HC (people)                          5                 5
(b) communal connecton
(persons)                            up to 100         upto 100
8.   HydrAlic  cstics                          Gravityl         Gravkly
based            pumped
9.   Most ctical distribution
Pressure System (mka)                    10                10
10. Horizon Design (year)                     5                 5
11. Distribution of operational
hours (hours/d)                          24                24
12. Type of Pipe Material                     PVC               PVC
(a) Transmission/Disibution
if the area is rocky                 GIP               GIP
13.  ncrease of population/yr.                as surveyed
Served Population                        500-300           > 3000
14. Reservoir (% day demand)                  20                20
Reservoir in Production unit             no                yes
Reservoir in public hydrant              yes               yes
15. Control Equipment
Resource flow meter                      yes               yes
Main water meter                                           yes
Extention meter                          yes               yes
Check valve                              yes               yes
Air valve                                yes               yes
Drain valve                              yes               yes
16. Capacity of safe yield                     >30% of system desig cap
resource



95 -                         ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME Co                             PROJECT
SAIATION COMPONENT
Introduction:
1.          The objective of the WSSUC sanitation strategy is to improve personal,
household and community hygiene behavior in order to reduce the incidence of water and
santion related illnesses through a combination of promotion, education, and technical
assistance. Construction of sanitation facilities alone will not cause an improvement in the
health status of a community. The facilities must be used and maiwnaied. More
importaly, safe hygiene behavior such as hand washing after defecation and before
handling food, and safe storage and maagement of drinking water and food must be
consistently practiced. In well-planned and executed sanitation programs, adoption of
improved saniation behavior can foster an increase in effective demand for improved
sanation technologies such as pour-flush latrines. Hence, if large subsidies or regulatory
mechanisms to encourage larine construction are not applied and the low-cost technologies
are affordable, larine construction may be a manifestation of the adoption of improved
hygiene behavior and lead to sustained improvements in health.
2.          Present GOI policy for sanitation requires full payment of the construction
costs of private sanitation facilities by households. Therefore, project investment is aimed
at health education and promotion of improved hygiene behavior, technical training
tuhrugh the construction of a limited number of sanitation facilities in project villages, and
provision of a small amount of materials to stimulate latrine construction through self-help
or the private sector.
3.          The sanitation strategy for the project is founded on the experience of GOI,
UNICEF and a nmber of NGO programs over the past decade. In the past, GOT has
relied on the fully subsidized construction of public combined latrine, bathfing and washing
facilities (known as MCK) and, in some cases, household latrines to promote private
improvement of sanitation. Litde or no coordinated health education or social marketing
was provided, and sanitation improvement rates remained low.
4.          The strategy for the joint UNICEF/GOI sanitation program (a component
of UNICEF's overall Water and Enviromnental Sanitation Program for Indonesia) has
evolved from a heavily subsidized demonstration approach which proved to have limited
impact to one of providing 'stimulant' materials worth about U.S.$ 12.00 for one latrine
to a group of households who request assistance. The program includes a strong and well
coordinated hygiene education component covering a period of 6 - 8 months in a sub-



- 96-                          ANNEX 7
district aimed at increasing deand for improved sanitadon through the private sector. On
average, UNICEF expects that the material provided for one latrine will stimulate the
private constructon of at least 2 facilities without frther subsidies wifthin one year in rural
communities. In FY1989/90 UNICEF was able to achieve a construction rate of 1000
latrines per district using this basic approach.
Sanitaion Strategy:
5.          A two stage strategy will be adopted for the WSSLIC sanitation component
lining social markeing and interactive health education with skdlls training for the private
sector to provide the technical inputs required for adequayt sanitation. A first stage heal
education and social marketing campaign (see Annex 8) wlll precede and then overlap with
a second stage program to train under-employed community membe  to market and build
a variety of sanitaion facilides to suit various income levels. Tese individuals will then
be motivated to promote latrine construction as an income geneatin occupation. Tbis
will also reduce the workload for Sanian who would normally be promoting and
demonstrating latrie construction along with their many other duties. Sanitarans will be
expected to monitor the construction activities of the trained latrine builders.
6.           Social marketing of improved hvgiene behavior such as hand washing,
along with health education, will be a key element of stae 1. Expeiec  in many
countries indicates that social marketing can be a very potent tool for inducing behavioral
change. It has been used effectively in family planning and immnizon campaigns in
Indonesia and elsewere. Saniton facilities are easily marketed on the basis of presige,
convenience, and privacy in addition to health. Another key to sucessful promotion of
sanitation will be the active support of the Bupati for the program. Accordingly, the
Buati's support will be solicited before other promotional work begins.
7.           Artisan trainig: In the process of trning local latrine builders, about
eight demonstrion latrines will be built at the homes of the poorest members of each
project community and/or at other homes selected by the com.mn. A range of
snitation echnology options will be introduced in the training progran, extending from
a very simple ventlated pit latrine or a single pit laine with a pour-flush seal directly
mounted on top, to twin-pit facilities with separate bathing areas. Typical designs for low-
cost on-site sanitation facilities that will be promoted by the project can be found at te end
of this annex. Emphasis will be placed on individual choice to suit financial constrains,
and on quality construction of the latrine pit, cover slab, and pan to ensure easy
maintenance and durability.
8.          Incentives for construction: Provision of latrine pans as a subsidy will
constitte only a small percentage of the total constructon costs of most latrines and will
not likely provide a significat fiancial incenive for latrine constuction. However, good
quait, easily cleaned pans may be a useful marketing tool for local latrine builders. For
this reason, the project will provide about 100 latrn pans in each project village at no
cost to trained builders, who may use them as a marketing tool to promote their services,
or sell them to households that wish to construct latnes idependetly. During the frst
two years of the project a special study wil be carried out to evalute t  effectiveness of



-97-                           ANNEX 7
this aproach. The statgy for promoting latrine construction will then be modified to
reflect the findings of the study. a summary description of the study can be found in
Annex 9.
9.          Well-designed latrine pans made from poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) are
manufactured by one firm in West lava. These pans are light weight and easily
transported, require a relatively small amount of water for flushing, and limited field trials
suggest that dty are durable.
10.          These pans are presenty manufctured at only one factory in West Java and
tey are also produced iternationally. Also, in fte absence of a marketing strategy for
the plastic model there is a popular preference for heavier ceramic pans, or cheaper in situ
casted cemnt pans. Hence, the stimulant effect of the plastic pans will be limited unless
a decentralized manufacturing and distribution network combined with a maredng
campaign is in place. The project will therefore encourage the development within the
private sector of a manufacturing, marketing and distrbution network for the plastic pans
during the first two years of implementation. If after two years a network is not in place
the project will distribute ceranic pans.
I1.         Institutionalsanitation falities: The project in all provinces will include
provisions for fully subsidized construction of appropriate, low-cost institutional sanitation
facilities at schools, and possibly as a demonstration at other public venues such as
religious centers. An average of three institutional facilities will be constructed in each
project village. Public latrine construction will be accompanied by a maagemen training
program to ensure that a system to maintain these public facilities is operational by the
time they are constructed. Design criteria for school snaitation facilities will be based on
the exist  standards used in the INPRES program, ins-zring that water for hand washing
is accessible in or next to the facilities and that a minimum of one cubicle for every 50
suents is constructed.  Preparation of an acceptable management plan for public
saniation facilities will be a part of the VAP development process.
12.         Standard designs for combined conmnunal latrines and bafhing/washing
facilites (MCKs) will be provided to conununities who select this level of service either
as an interim solution or in lieu of household facilities. The maintenance requirements of
MCKs will be made clear to all communities when considering this alternative, and an
acceptable magement plan will be agreed to as a component of the VAP by those who
will use the facility before the project agrees to build any MCKs. Well managed MCKs
may be a viable saniation technology in densely populated urban areas. MCKs will not
be subsidized by the project, as they constitLte a replacement for private sanitation
faciities.
13.         Sulblage Disposal: Wastewater drainage is also an environmental healh
hazard in low income comnunities. The project will train local artisans to build simple
soak-away drains (known as SPAL in Indonesia) for household wastwater, primwadly
emanating from kichens. Two demonstration SPAL will be constructed at houses chosen
by the communities during the training process.



-98 -                          ANNEX 7
14.         Sold wafte       g         Safe soHid waste            practdes
appropriate forr   communies wi be promoted. In dispersed villages, composting and
burial of solid wastes wil be encouraged. In more desly popuated areas a system of
waste collection managed by RT/RW or desa leadership with monthly service payments
to local collectors and delvery to transfer stations for subsequent collection by r.mlcipal
sevices, as is practiced In most urban communties in Indonesia, will be Introduced and
improved secondary collecdon and final disposal management by govenment agencies will
be promoted.



-99-                          ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOMW COMB5UNE PROJECT
HYGNE  AND SANrTAON EDUCA1ION (HSE)
AND WATER QUALTY SURVEILANCE (WQS)
1.          Objectives. Ihe objecuves of the HSE program and the WQS activities
are to: (i) inform residens in the six project provinces of water and filth-borne related
diseases, causes, effects and prevention; (Ii) implement s participatory HSE Program
through trained village volunteers (cadres); (ii) train health personnel, both goven'^aent
and non-government, on hygiene education principles and methods; (iv) cary out sanitry
inspecion of water and smitation facilites, and colection and analysis of waer samples;
and, (iv) build the institutional capacity and capability of the local health offices, centers,
and the commumties to enable them to carry out hygiene and sanitation education and
water qualit surveillance activities more effectively.
A. The HSE Progam
2.          The HSE program will Include: (i) media campaigns for hygiene and
sanitation related-issues, a rP,view of hygiene and sanitation education materials, fielding
testing of messages, and production of canpaign and training materials; (ii) hygiene and
sanitation education workshops, orientation and training of MOH and local government
staff, school teachers, other concemed government extension workers, NGOs, local leaders
(UCMD, PKK        ,      RWIRT etc,) heal and other volunteer workers (cadres)
in all conmunities in the project areas; (ii) equipping selected health centers with audio
visual equipments and software, including specaized training to selcted heal staff; (iv)
training trainers to deliver hygiene and sanitation education messages to the project
communities; and, (v) support to hygiene and sanitaton education in the schools.
3.          Orgniation and Delivery of HSE.  The orgaizaton and delivery
arrangements of the HSE program will be as follows:
(a)   The national project secrtit (dtrough the Ministry of Health and its
concemned agencies-DGCDC&EH with Dt.CP and Center for Health
Education; selected regional health training and private institutions) will
prepare hygiene education maerials, mass media campaigns, promotion
and publicity campaigns with communication networks (radio, television,
newspapers as appropriate), and carry out orientation and training of
project staff and selected local health educators in the project provinces,
kabupatens, and kecamatans.



-100-                          ANNEXS
(b)   At the provincial and local government levels, the authorities and their
health centers (Puskesmas) together with private institions will provide
hygiene and sanitation education, orientation, workshops and training
programs for project staff (health educators, banitarians, other health staff),
rdaterials, audio visual equipment and software, training and orientation to
school teachers, local government staff, Village Water Supply and
Sanitation Committee (VWSSC), and their subcomnittees, NGOs, and
project communities at large.
(c)    kt the community level, the VWSSC and the project staff will select,
=ruit and train village facilitators/motivators (cadres) to work with the
project communites on hygiene and sanitation education and water quality
surveillance activities. Chars A and B llUustrate the proposed delivery
structure, and flow of activities for the RSE program.
4.           ApprosLh and Strategy. A combimation of promotional and participatory
approaches will be used. The promotional approach will use social marketing techniques
suitable for promoting specific facilities and practices to meet the needs of the user groups,
and would be carefully planned and designed with the water and sanitation programs.
Orientation and training will be conducted on principles of attitude and behavioral change,
implementing issues, and measuring the effects of social marketing campaigns. The
participatory approach will use the joint problem analysis and problem solving principles.
In this case, the objectives, content and methods shall be defmec as much as possible by
the target groups together with the educator/facilitator, in the form of face to face
discussions, community self surveys, and continued feedback and evaluations.
3.           Since health improvements have been linked with other factors such as
women's literacy levels and improved income, HSE activities would form linkages with
ote complementary activities (Non-Formal Education classes, skill and vocational
courses, and income generating activities) that can promote these improvements. The HSE
program will be developed with the community, taking their knowledge as the starting
point. Activities will be integrated with water supply and sanitation activities from the
beginnig, and women in the HSE program will have a voice in the decision making
process in an effort to enhance their status. HSE activities would be carried out by a cadre
of women and men from the villages who would be trained by the project staff.
6.           A baseline study will be conducted in each project community as part of
the overall village action plan (VAP). It will include information on knowledge, attitudes,
and practices (KAP), which will be the most inportant aspect of the detailed p,anning
process for hygiene and sanitation education. It will provide the following: (i) target
oppornities for intervention, attitudes, and beliefs susceptible to change; (ii) target
audience and persuasive arguments to use wih the priority target groups; and (c)
comunication chamnels prioritized by the audience and effective use ot these chamels in
previous programs.
7.           School HSE. The project will give emphasis to a program of hygiene and
sanitation education in the schools. It will use a combination of activities such as



-101-                          ANNEX8
classroom learning, improving school hygiene facilities and practices, and community
outreach programs aimed at Influencing hygiene and sanitation practices of siblings,
parents, and the larger community.
S.          Target Groups.  The three tpes of target groups are: (a) project
coaimunity at large, user groups, and individuals; (b) school age children; and (c) indirect
target groups such as local leaders, traditional healers, local builders, and technicians. A
variety of progratir would focus on women. However, the project will encourage f .e
active involvement of men, particularly the household heads. Within community groups,
different socio-economic, age, cultural, religious, and geographic members would be
encouraged to participate. School children and selected teachers are considered important
target groups and would be given priority.
9.          Methods and Tools. A combination of two methods would be applied: (i)
interpersonal, in which the individual and groups communicate directly with the hygiene
educator/facilitator; and (ii) mass media campaigns, including the use of radio, television,
wail posters, leaflets, and others communication materials. The HSE program will make
e3tensive use of a wide range of audio-visual tools such as models, posters, flyers, radio
talks, fhnstrips, video and motion pictures, folk media such as drama, songs and games.
10.         Orientation and bstining will be provided on: (a) process and procedures
for implementation of the HSE program to selected central, provincial and kabupaten
healh staff, service agencies (regional health education offices, private/NGOs), project
staff; and (b) specialized training to hygiene educators, facilitators and or motivators. The
orientation and training activities would be integrated with the implementation of the
overal community development and training plan.   Training on development
commnications, educational media, and cross community visits, and study tours would
be provided for selected project staff, community leaders, hygiene educators/facilitators,
communities, schools, and general audiences.
11.         Monitoring and evaluation of the HSE intevention would form part of
the overall monitoring and evaluation program for the WSSPLIC. An important objective
is to improve the KAP knowledge of project communities. Two levels of monitoring
would be pursued; (a) community level; and (b) project management and various
govenment levels. It will involve process monitoring and impact evaluation of HSE
Intervention in the three stages of pre-construction (pre-itervention), construction
(mtervention) and post construction (post intervention). A set of health indicators will be
identified to measure exsting problems and conditions, and the situation after the
inrvention.  The community self survey would determine the socio-demographic
characteristics, health status, as well as the presence of ova, and parasites.
12.         Action Research and Impact Stadies. A mber of action research,
special studies, and impact studies would be carried out to test new approaches and to
address the unresolved issues on hygiene practices and delivery mechanisms. The project
health staff, together with concerned health agencies, would be responsible for identifyng
topics, objectives, and methodology of the action research and impact studies. She project



102 -                          ANNEX 8
will establish operational likikges with the Third Community Heal nd Nutrition Project
(CHN ll.
13.         Implementaton Acdon Pbn. An HSE action plan wi)l be developed and
Integrated into the overall implementation action plan for the WSSLIC project. It will
focus on acdvies to support: (a) activites for the target groups and individuals, and
atitudes and behaviors to be adopted by each audience; (b) approach to behavior change,
communicadon channels; (c) strategy for review and material development; (d) program
for orientation, workshops and specific trazing; (e) insdiional plan to defime specific
roles and responsibilities of each inional delivery system; (f) a time table and a
budget. Table 1 presents a list of sctivities In te acion plan, specific objectives and
medtodology.
B. WATER QUALTY SUVNIEMACu (WQS)
14.         WQS Pogram. The WQS program will Involve: (i) periodic sanitary
Inspection of water supply and sanitaion facilities; and (ii) monitoring of the quality of
drinking water tirough collection and analysis of water samples in the project
communities.
15.         Approach and Strate. WQS activities will be based on a wreferrfa
system0 which starts from  e village cadres andlg the health inspection), to kecaatan
(carrying out the sampling), and to kabupaten (responsible for chemical and bacteriological
analyses). The project will maxiize the existg  surveillance facilites rather than
investing in new ones.
16.         Tbe WQS equipment will be used for public facilities, while private
facilities will be mored based on periodic observation. The project will not provide
support for the distict laboratories as these will be supported through other national
programs. For difficult to reach areas, other support faciles (water test kits) will be
provided.
17.         The community though the VWSSC and user groups (with guidance from
the health staff) will be responsible for the improvement of the water quaity as well as
WSS facilities. Ihe aim is to reduce fte risk of cn tion and pollution of the wells,
bandpumps, rainwmer collectors,  niary latrines, and oher environmental sanitaion
facilities (wast disposal etc). The other more complex water supply facilites (pipeline
Type A, etc) would be assisted through the concerned agencies (PDAM/BPAM,etc).
18.         Work Mechanism for WQS. The kabupaten health sevice wil 'w
responsible for carrying out the WQS program by setting up a network hat will reach te
target community. Ihe work minim to undertake the WQS is the responsibility of the
anitarian assisted by the VWSSC through the village cadres. Guided by the sanitarian,
cadres would ipect the WSS facilities by distributing house and environment survey
forms which will be collectd and compiled by the sanitaria



-103 -                         ANNEX 8
19.         lhe sanitarian, together with the cadres, will collect water samples.
Physical tesdng of PH, chlor residue, Fe, Mn, and h1ar    can be conducted on location
wit the availale equipment.  Bacteriological rearch Incluig soil tests will be
conducted through the kabupaten   h service with asstec from the cadres (mcluding
measuring and mosquito larvae investigations). For difficult to reach ar  (exceeding 24
hours), a few selected field laboratories will be provided. The work mechanism and
activites for WQS is illustated In Chart C.
20.         Monitoring and evaluaton acivities. The sanitarian, with assistance from
the cadres, will be responsible for the analysis of dt  sanitary ieion including
reporting of result. Data and information will be sent to the kabupaten health service for
co  checkdng of laboratory reports and for foblow up actons. Periodic evaluation will
be caried out based on the monitoring activites at the community level.
21.         Training. A systematic training program for WQS will be provided to
cadres, sarians, kabupaten staff, and laboratory analysts.



- 104                                        ANNEX 8
TABLE 1
WATM  SUPPY AND SAt      At n       aR i  P LW t      M C&UM1
HyGjI#N  ANO gANrtA=N EOe16   w.
Pro Co _stn  5me                Coawucuns C'serd
Saoe                        $01111                       ftg
(Penevnln                  (ntelomol                  (P.   enientio
1. Nationaldl               1. OtsaeLaton of             1. O eae tn .o
oeducatio wak shop          WOtMatlh _                   Intanuan
2. 04eloornem Of            2Tqainicsi gdac am           2. TShnIl ru,dance WAn
ClmrrnLcticaon Materals     eupendalon                   supwvision
3. Infom#ato digatdion   3. Meeting                      3. Ivaluadton of hlush
4. Trchnia gudance          A . Reortng & &eurbudcn         educaden uroerunted
suwNkon
S. Helth educatin ttaL
far Cenuai & PMV.S=ff
. Preaedn of Acton
RaSg  Seaoal Stvs
Input
1.  evin.a wkseo on   t. Oissentnaton of                 I. Odissentian of
heath educaton              infomati                    hInfomaion
2. O.velomom of             2. Techicat eukda    and     2  Techndc   udanca ad
Commen _ca    Maters        suervlion                    spevIwon
3. Infomation dlwrinadtin   3. Meeting                   3. evaluation &  dmqton
4. Training of efath        A. Rewtng & distition        4. ReporIng & distbuton
education stff for
S. Trdied gudanc &.
I.  Ca" out aceon research
l3                                                       t. O     laemiaron of
1.  0lau;o wouho            t. Oasemation of                itnformaIon
2. O     eminlaon of           infommiean                2. TeCOW.o. gudance ad
Ibnfomation              2. Technical guidrae and        svoervi6ion
aevison                  3. hvonitoteng and evaludon
.      . . . ______________ -3. MoeGin of dtt level                    _
3. Todnica gdae  & "                                     4. Reportn
supevision               4. Reot
4. Trak.ing in health
education far Sub.dietrct
w,oukers
S. Cur, -A hexIcdn
trehf
sulkdltrict lAv.d
1. Woreshop                 1.  isantisdn of             1. OtseIftie on of
2. Tran of villag cadres       informatI                    infonaidon
3. Infoateien disemnion   2. Tecnla guidkae  d           2. Tecic a guidance, and
4. PlannIng of sacivites       aeosion                      suwavslon
S. Te0nAc  idance IL        3. Meatn of sub dIict        3. Meig of sub distie
St. mvlan                                  workers
6  Meetn ot sub tiac        4. Ror                       4. Reprting
7. Owta colectin
8. Rpeorting
1. Vlla  meng                . alth education to targt  t. Health educaten to
2. REcrutment of cdr           gouw vilage led              taret gotup at  laee
3.  omAantion of hygiene and   2. fanndon of water user     level
sanion workng grou          go  an short tran         2. Maintain and
4. ViUage self survy (VAP)   3. Recording & reporting       develoenet Of wotg
S. Viagepoannlnof                                           Grow
CivIties                                              3. Mntring & evalaton
6.  Vsien and Satation                                   4. Evaluaen
Educaein
7. Hlath educatin  to
conmgiity erup
of health educaftio
activivies           .     ._ 



-0-                                ANNEX 
CART A
IDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                                  PROJECT
HYGIENE AND SANTATIN EDCTAoN DEUYvRY STICFUIE
l~ ~~~aa LO           . ophm
I          CllOmbl .s      IoaMt fIF           7           CenaWVS9UC
Eh             H~~~Emt   _ Pme
I~I Irm I
| IcwmtI I Nadth |~
5-
i~~W 11bohniTam
Subd ,7
He~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asaflt . t Snestohe PnsIncIL_
LOW              1Scton C.mm ty
(4:  Prons)
Section                      2. T.odw*9u teen to etaoIhh bkes wI
SnvImnmentaI     WSK          Cowotdbwto Body for Sehod Holmi
awkormenod   Kabupate"   ~~Eduotlen (VURW of &**hS of MOWNds%
Section            PrOject     Minisa of Heidi. MhIlsy of RelgIous
Kubupatsn       Health Sducatian    topmplantafn    Affabs and mtuduyof Home "ali a t anoveb.
Ksown~~~~~~~23 esos
NSbOlbot)           (1-2 PMmon)    I~
I               mSaniwsonl
MI   1  e"             ofl'SS
_ I
l~~~~-



*0 
B                    i EW   Wtt-,41 ___
4              
z    jIjt
~   zI.~            jjiIIiIUt
*              II   -     Eo
~~~~~~~~W~~~~~~9
ao~~~~~~~~~
v ~I____



A3                                                   Ql  3 i
4-                             .............     -  - - -
0 ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~
rI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11k



- 108-                        ANNEX 9
DONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AN) SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO                             PROJECT
TDUNCAL ASSMANCE
1.          Consultants and NGOs will be recruited to assist and advise the project
implementation agencies at te central, provincial and district levels. In a demand driven
project of the scale, scope and diversity of WSSLIC, a progranntic approach is essential
as it would be almost impossible (and undesirable) to design the whole of the five year
investent program before the project's commencement.  Under the programatic
approadh of the project, the iniial years of investments would be monitored and evaluated
allowing the subsequent years to be fine-uned or modified to deal with any problems or
iss  that may have arisen. The main implication of this is the need for a strong tehnical
assistance component that supports good project planning, implementation, management
and monitoring and evaluation.
2.          The TA conponent will comprise of four main elements: (a) coordination
and impltation support; (b) training and human resources development support; (c)
administraion and financial management support; and (d) monitoring and evaluation
support. Specific studies (described below) will also be undertaken as part of TA.
3.          During implementation, technical assistance would be provided to the
respective levels of GO, 1.e. central, provincial and district levels. At the cetal level,
a small advisory TA team would be established to suppore rfOI's coordination teams and
working groups. The TA group would consist of both international experts and national
experts. Ihe international team would consist of the following experts: project
coordination and management, training, monitoring and evaluation, hydrogeology, water
quality, hygiene and sanitation education, and finance. The functions of the first three
post are self explantory: support to project management, taining, and monitoring and
evaluation. The Fmance experts would assist in the analysis of cost recovery procedures,
processing the approvals and financial tr cons within the project including contract
approval and claims for reimbursement. In addition, the national expert group would
consist of the following disciplines: water supply and sanitation, hydrogeology, water
quality, hygiene and saniton education, community management, trainig, finance,
women in development, and monitoring ad evaluation.
4.          At the provincwil level, similar small support group would be established
in each province, attached to te Bappeda, consisting of five national experts: Project
management/coordination, water supply and sanitation, hydrogeology, monitorig and
evaluation support, and financial. At dict level, three person teams will be established



-109 -                         ANNEX9
consisting of the following skills: community development (team leader), water supply and
snitation, survey technician. In addition one field officer will be in each kacamatan.
S.          A total of 1660 person-months are proposed to provide consulany services
throughout the project period. The initial stage of the TA which wiH cover the completion
of project preparation activities will be funded under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
approved by the Bank. Furftermore, design of more complex piped water supply
schemes, completion of the Village Action Plans (VAP), initiation of trainig activities and
launching of project would be undertaken during this initial stage which is estimaed to
continue until loan effectiveness. A total of 258 person-months are proposed for services
during this period. Table 1 indicates the person-months of technical assistance required
duing the entire implementaion period and TA fnded under PPF. Terms of reference
(MOR) for the three key consultants (Project Management Expert, Training and
Community Development Expert, and Policy Management Expert) have been prepared and
will be reviewed at negotiations (see Attachment 1). TORs for other consultants wil be
complted with the assistance of these three consultants. The former consuan  are
expected to be appointed by loan effecdveness; the remainder during the period up to
Febuay 28, 1994. Chart E of Annex 13 give the details.
Specia Studies
6.          The specal studies component of Technical Assistance will complement
lessons learned from the monitoring and evaluation system with in-depth assessment of
medium and long-term policy implications of project experience, and provide inputs for
the Project Completion Report. hnplementation of these studies will be the responsbility
of Central Project Secrtriat. The following list of topics were identified during appraisal:
7.          Poverty Targeting and Water Demand Studies:
(a)   Poverty Targeting Studies: The screening for poverty under WSSLIC has
so far used the BANGDES classification of villages, with different
weighting systems adopted by provinces to short-list eligible villages for
the project. In the project preparation phase, targeting on pour villages is
being tested by: (i) merging SUSENAS and PODES data sats to obtain
predicted average income levels in these villages, and (ii) utilizing a
poverty screening criterion 11 to filter eligible villages from the long list.
This exercise will be completed by May 1993, so that the first batch of
project villages are adequawely screened through a poverty criterion. IBRD
will provide additional technical support in evaluating and refming the
methodology during supervision.
Time frame: By May 1993.
J1 Suh as, avaage vilage houshold inoomes being at most one and a half times provcial povery



-110-                          ANNEX 
(b)   Water Demad Studies:
*     Determinants of Demand for Water. The determia  of water demand
will be analyzed using data from project villages and confirned duough
selective stdies using contingent valuaion methods. These studies are
needed to understand and get empirical evidence about the valuation of and
willin s to pay for WSS services.
*      hAalyss ofCompliamee and Altenative Enforeement  ss The
project design imposes beneficiary contribution toward capital costs on the
premise that this conditionality provides incentives for individuals to reveal
their true preferences for service levels, and thus pay for system upkeep
at the O&M (post-construction) phase. The study will examine the exten
to which problems of enforcing household O&M cost contributions at the
post-construction phase was reduced; and if not, why enforcement
problems remained. Possible solut}ons (e.g. use of matching grants) will
be identified and teste. The analysis wiul also evaluate how far the adoption
of a particular institutional arrangement for enforcing O&M responsibilities
affected the concepts of routine and sustainable O&M costs as defined in
the project.
Time frame: 1993-1998
8.          Impact Evaluation Studies
The project's outcomes are expected to be measured not only in terms
ofiproving access to low income comnmnities to water and sanition
services, but also in terms of strengthening the instiuional capacity of
villages to manage simple inrastructure through community-based
institutions. hnpact evaluation sdies will emine  e extent to which
these objectives were achieved, and the role played by facilitation
activities, such as training, NGO involvement, simplification of fund
channelling mechanisms etc. Studies wili be designed so that data collected
during project activites are fully utilized. Additional sources of data will
then be idenified, and analysis conducted to evaluate how far project
objectives were achieved.
Time fame: 1995-1999
9.          The Sanitafion Simuulnt Strateg and its Effectiveness
This study will document, analyze and evaluate the experience with this
stimulant strategyt (describe in Annex 7). The anaysis will examine the
follow issues:
Did the strategy result in significant changes in community sation
practices?



-111l-                         ANX     9
Wh  were die implicaons in terms of improving income levels md
marketing skills of the ukangs?
Did a distribution system for sanitadon appliances emerge as a conseqence
in the WSSLIC villages and surrounding areas?
Time fraw: 1994-1998
10.         Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices/Women in Devlopmnent studY
The study will review the Impact of hygiene and sanitation program and
accompanying improved water and sanition infucture on the health
knowledge, attitudes and practices of village commnities, pardcularly
women and school children. It will provide recommendations for
replicatng project successes in fiture projects.



-112-                        ANNEX9
Atachment 1
WATER SUPPLY AND SANfTATON PROJECT FOR
LOW [INCOM COG OJrrE
TERM OF CzcE FOR BRiDGING PEROD
1.           POSION: Management Expert (Interam nal)
DURATION: 9.5 person months
STARTING I)ATE: about May 1, 1993 (Selection)
SCOPE OF WORK: The Maagement Expert (MA) wUI lead a small inteisciplinay team
of natioal Consultant and NGO experts, who will provide advice, guiance and support to
the Central Project Scretauiat and the Technical Coordiatig Committee Working Groups in
all; aspects of pmject lanching and implemnon.
For day-to-day acvities, the MA will report to the Executive Secretary of the
Directorate General of Communical Diseases and Envonmental Health, Mistry of Health,
who will monior and supervs progress. The above experts will provide feedback to the
Executive Secretary to ensure consitenq and quality of the work. The MA will be assisted
by a team of both foreig and ntonal consultants and is expected to work dosey with an
ndonesian Policy and Management Expert.
More specifically the MA will support the Executive Secretary and the centr
working groups to undertake the following duties:
Poject Manageet  Coordination and Superiion
(a)    Guide the conduct of the Provinc  level project lauh and implemtation
as well a day-to-day management and coordinaion of team members and
spport staff,
(b)    Prepare workplans and schedules for project activities at proviial level in
line widt the overall national worka   Coordinate the work of the other
eperts, consultat, GOI staff and NGOs In their various tasks;
(c)    Ensure the quality and  mime    of the outputs of the other speciali n the
project team and the integration of thes outpts with other componens in a
fin  report in line with the national guidelines;
(d)    Advise the Execuive Secretay on all required coorditing activities i order
to ensure maimum involvement and commiment of the Govenment agencies
during project imple fn



-113 -                       ANNEX9
Atachment 1
(e)    Support the project executive secretariat with the following specific tasks:
(i) revision and finalization of project preparation reports submitted to the
Bank, including appraisa findings;
(ii) preparation of requirements for loan negotiation and effectiveness;
(iii) preparation of detailed workplans for project launch and the bridging
period up to loan effectiveness (including technical , financial, social,
training and other support activities that are required) and reporting the
progress of activities; and,
(iv) guidance with recruitment and preparation of detailed TORs for
provincial TA teams.
Projeed Document and Reports
(f)    Prepare the following documents, assign report writing to team members ,and
submit required reports in a timely manner:
(i) Quarterly Progress Reports (cmd. provincial consolidated progress
reports);
Cu)  Revised Project Preparation Report at incorporates the findings and
agreements reached during Project Appraisa;
(di)  Final Project Preparation Dom _ent reflectig the 4reemen  to be
reached during loan negotion; and,
(iv) Final WSSLIC "Start-Up" report by October 1993.
(g)   In addition, a number of specal reports will be produced as required.
QUAIJFICATIONS: The MA should have a univeriy iegree with etensive experience in
project management in the field of water supply and sanitation and with working ewerience
in Indonesia.



-114-                       ANNEX9
Attacment 1
2.           POSITON: Comnunity Development and Trainng Expert
DURATION: 3.75 person months
STARTING DATE: About May 1, 1993 (Selection)
SCOPE OF WORK: The community development/training expert will assist BANODES
AND BANGDA in:
(a)   revising and finalizing project preparation documentsdeveloping trainin
modules on community management, and managing project at prov./distrlct
level;
(b)   reviewing &  evaluating (i) ^ae project's comuntu: level activities in
connection with the preparation of yearly investment programs, VAPs, TOTs,
role of women and income generating activates; and (Ci) the project's
instiutional arragemants;
(c)   assessing manpower needs in WSSPLIC;
(d)   identfying NGOs with potential for involvement in project implementation;
(e)   preparing detailed workprogram for the women component of WSSPLIC;
(f)   establishing a program to strengthen the role of women in WSSPLIC;
(g)   guiding and supervising provincial teams;
(h)   trmsfering knowledge to GOI experts; and,
(i)   reviewing the project's communication strategy and training performance
indicators.
QUALITIFCATIONS: The above expert should have a university degree in social science
with extnsive experience in the field of community and institutional development with working
experience in Indonesia, particularly in the field of water supply and environmental sanitation.
3.           POSION: National Policy Management Expert
(fOR Is waderfinaiation.)



Table 1:
Indonesa
Water Supply & Sanitation Project for Low Inoome Communities
Technical Assislance Schedule
________    _____                                     (Conudianny and~~M  NONS SewIce)
U*ef_A                                                       --tS                                    . 
aalgsetaakll                aecy                      by rojet y" ear       e        tf         ot                                     oNGOas-
1       2       3       4       5               Tbhmsn        'v                      a
Mom. Advise               DBPIES-PLP          9.S0                                      9.50      142.S0   Yes                     Yes                    Dra      u4may1
C.Dirrain. Advisew       BANODA               3.75                                      3.75       50.60   No                      Yee                    No       (seoIN
NiJBcomIst                DBE8S               2.50                                      250        47.30   Daftl                   No       IS/MnrS       No
Hydrogeogisu              Cipta               1.O 1.00                                  1.00       13.50   Draft                   No       lSMa3         No
INst. DCV. Expe          BANGDA                .75                                      .75        10.2S   No                      U        ISiMr93       No
kw. b aiserts  botoa:                           17.50                                     17.50      264.15    __    _           _                       _
Natoal Advise:                                                                                                                                  (AD -natOw_
Commn. Dwv. Expert        BANODA              5.50                                      8.50       21.2    Drdft                   Yes      employd       NO       fft&y3
TOining Bxpt              BANODA              6.00                                      6.00       IS.00   Draft                   Yes      t#Bhg         No       (selcion)
Hygien Ed. Expert        DEPKES               6.00                                      6.00       15.00   Daft                    yes      conts        No m
Watr SuppyE g.           cipe Ky              3.00                                      3.00        7.SO   Drafs                   Yes      Wih fo        No
Sation Expert             Cipa KsYe           3.00                                      3.00        7.S0   Draft                   Y        fian)         NO        V Up to
WQC EXPetn                DE IE               2.00                                      2.00        s.00   Daf                     Yet                    No       2SJFeb94
HydrgeoloI               Ci!" earo            3.00                                      3.00        7.50   Drf                     Ye                     No       
Pl8nJEonnrlt             DUNCES               4.00                                      4.00       10.00   Daft                    Ye                     No 
hIas. DeC. EXPet         BDANCDA              6.00                                      6.00       IS.0O   Daft                    Yea                    No       J
Mad1. advisebto    :_                           41.50                                     41.50      103.7S
Natdi    Avier (x 6):                                                                                                                           &9o0                                   i
contract
Pro. Mgnw. Adviets        BAPPEDA              36                                        36        90.00   No                      Yes      with four     NO       I9y3            o
Pow. WSS Cxpect          DINAS lU              36                                        36        72.00   No                      T        fims)         NO           Up to
PIOV. CDIriaIn. Rip.     BAPPEDA               36                                        36        72.00   No                      Yes                    No       28PW94 
Field Offkr (Na)         NOO                   104                                       104       31.20   NO                      Yes                    No       J                It
vw. advles sub4fas:                               212                                       212      265.20



Ugt at I4iMdeal TA       kmwntDulqymaaScbe"l                                     Twal      Todl          Srma of TORt             Sbut-k
iialakma          _St                                           P         s         oa                        O_          f MNOO
-   -aut.                                                                  -             -          -         -
3      l 2     3      4        S      _       no*                  xF --                                         E.
UBML p oat    *         DEIWSS               12      12    12       12      12       60        000   No      1SMJ                    15
cO        -.uptAM&      lh"NDA                9   6   3    3    3    24    300No b                             MA1W5                  1Lu93 
I%JBceZADcc_GL          DIINMI                4       4      2       2       2       14         200  No       ISarI9)                 ISlbSII 
_IM66010101             Ckds Nap              4      3       2       1       O       to         100  NoD      l51 3                  lsnu15 93             Up to
Taw"d  RiPt              RANODA               4       4      0       0       0    8             300  No   1 51azi3                    lSI1"9               22 A4
MoJdem. B_s              BAIODA               4       4      2       2       2       14         t00  No       ISirB3                  15ibsa3
Ey*m Ed. IUpV            DUNCES               3       3      0       0       1        7         100  No       15Mad9                  1sfm93   I
Wawt Spp_a.             dp  KaP               3       2      0       0       1        6         100  No          Maa93                150ud93 
WuQuaLCoala             DEVIBES               2       1      0       0       I        4         100  No       ISMau                   1snohl
hi. &dVhaamb40at1                               45      39     21       20     22      3147       2100t
NdiodAdW
Pdiq  M. Adwbr          DEVIES                6       6      4       3       2       21        0.10   Duft                           IS5.931 
wow Su1PP&yS.           apa zap              12      12     12       12     12       60        0.20  Draft                            iS3Jm                 I     
R#zo ws                  Cpi asyp            12       6      3       0       0       21        0.10  Daft                             15S9a3                f 
Wdor<pd. CaSd           D DKM                 6       1      1       2       2       12        0.3  DNA                               1sJaI93
Hosieftsb"m             DEEES                12       6      4       2       2       26        0.10   Dat               UlS11iNr3                          Up t
-    noh           BDANODA              12     12     12        3      3        42        0.10   Daft                           150naS93              2WW194
TSioln (%2 spu)         BANODA               u24     12      2       2       2       42        0.10  Daft                             15sa3
AA.IU JAMcouti           DEMICES              6       6      6       4       4       26        0.10   DRaft                          Isas93 
MoA./IvahatloflUIS      DEVICS                6       3      3       3       3       t8        0.10   DNA                             1slod3 
Won" In D.w1o_mua       DEICES                6       3      0       0       0        9        0.30   Daft                            15 3 
NaIL advlsaaw4oblv.                             102     67     47       31     30       27        1.23                                        _
NatlomA  ip    (x 6);
Nu&AWMAdvim                                  72      72     fl      72      72      360         0.2   Daft                            15/Jan19)
WetsalySa                                    72      72     72      72      72      360         0.1   Dra                             1SJniaIi
Monv    _ a"tnnomD                           72      36     36      36      36      216         0.1   Daft                            15snou93             Upp to
FAM_I Ami                                    36      iS8i           is      is      log    10t   DIS                    D"assr3                            2&kb
HfydaugeologIat         ___         _       n72      7      36       6       6      392         0.1  Dsaft               _            l5in193        _     d
Pa,. advism A -ta                              3241  270    234       204    204       1236    __



-117-                                    ANNEX 10
PROJET COSI SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
%      ToWl
(RggLab IMi                                       Foes a      es
Local    Foreg    TOWl         hlOC    F       TOWx   CostA
1. Water supply          94,951.4   2,434.6   97,386.0     463    1.2      47.S      2        49
2. Sanitation             24,312.9   1,28S.7   2S,598.6    11.9   0.6      125        S       13
3. Hygie  and sanitation   8,773.9   2,912.7   11,686.6     4.3    1.4      5.7      25        6
4. Training and cotunity/
institutional development   29,773.5   3,308.2   33,081.7  14.5   1.6    16.1      10       17
S. Tchnical asistance     11,770.4   5,180.4   16,950.8     5.7   2.6       8.3      31        8
6. Projet marnaement      12,740.3   2,138.0   14,878.3     6.2   1.1       7.3      14        7
ToalASBL1TIN:O           18.2.       1725.   19.8.          8.9    3.5    !174       9       10
hsCal Contirck          98,232.2   1,2.    19982nl.Y             h        97       S 
Pce con tiocios           31,775.7   1,439.9   33,215.7    155    0.7      16.2       4       17
Toraw PROJECCOSTS          232.330.4  20.42S.5                      liQ I.LI            I       in
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT BY PROVINCE
(US$ million including contencis)
Cental        East Nusa  Nolth    Cenual   Southea   Cnta
Java  Maluk  Tergpaa   Sulawet  Suawei  Sulawes   Jakat   Toal
1. Water supply                 12.S    4.7      9.9      9.9       12.8     9.S        13    60.6
2. Sanitation                    2.8     1.4     2.7      2.8        3.7     2.6        0.0    16.0
3. Hvaiene and sanitation
eJucation                      0.7    0.3      0.5      0.6        0.7     0.6        3.6     7.0
4. Training and conmmunity/
institutional dovelopment      4.5    2.4      3.2      33         3.5     3.4        0.1    20.4
5. Technical assistance          1.0    0.9      0.9      0.9        1.0      1.0       4.5    .0.2
6. Project m3nagament            2.1     1.1      1.3      1.2        13      1.2       0.9     9.1
Total PROJECT COSTS               23.6     1 8         18   1 7                18.       10.4   123.
PROJECT COSr SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDu
%        Toal
(Ruola IIIOJ K_lin             atS Miol           poi  PDM
1. Investmet Costs
A. Civil works          51.327.9      0.0   51,327.9    25.1    0.0       25.I      0        26
D. Goods and equipment:
1. Equipment and
funiure             556.2   2,379.2    2,9354      0.3    1.1        1.4     79         1
2. Construction
materials         62,276.1   1,261.9   63,538.0    30.4    0.6      31.0      2        32
3. Educationa
mateals            3,792.7    598.8    4,391.5      1.9    03        2.2     14         2
4. VehiCles            880.8    734.0    1,614.8      04      0.4      0.8      SO        1
S. Conputers           120.0    540.0       660.0     0.0     03       0.3      90        0
C. Technica assistce:
1. ConsUltantaservices  14,982.6   5,109.2   20,091.8  7.3    2.5      9.,      26       10
2. DSign, surveys and
studi              6,389.6   2,129.9    8,19.5     3.1    1.1        4.2     26         4
3. Community sBees
and supervision   10,810.9   1,201.2   12,012.1    5.2    0.6        5.8     10         6
D. Training             18,846.4   2,094.0   20,940.4    92       1.0     10.2     10        10
E. Prect management    12,339.2   1,211.4   13,SS0.6     6.0    0.6        6.6      9         7
TOtI A        S         LN CO          1 222A   2 $6199  S82. H   V A    I   100
hc cal-tWgenCeS 1cec              -1,26.    19.
Prc contingenCieS       31,775.7   1,439.9   33,215.6    15.S    0.7      16.2      4        17
Total PROJECT COSTS        232330.3  20S    2S2755.8   113.3   112    IU                      JZ



355 for LOW Incom C~oimtios
Sspoedtatr, AccOUtSt by Wears
Tot.als Sacludiag Contingencies
Ioas  !nM971Cotnoi 8is(Poe  tillii..
A. Civil lEeck.
I. *atoer Supply Systems
a. rype A                                                   657.) 2,150.1I 4,20. 1  37.72,-140.5  14,161.4           .        3 2.    1.      .       0
b ob                                                      365.4   5571.2  1.333.7  1.451.3  1,3M.6   4,900.2    0.2   0.3   0.6   0.7   0.7  2.4
Materials                                              AJf,   3.00.3  2,730.? 97              ,606  II it98 4    0. 5    .6   1.3   1.7 *jj 5.7
Subtotal TMp  B                                           1,163.0  3,05.2s  3,912.5 4I5.7  4,1. '11I                07 09 19    .            .    .
c. type C
Labor                                                  1,401.1  2,294.7  4,641.6  S.6)1.1  5,506.9  19,561.)    0.7   1.1   2.3   2.7   2.7   S.$
MAteriels                                              I.5.    ,9.  3.).             4. Il*.  2049.4  45.264. 3   .3   2.0   5.3   6.4   6.3  22.3
Subtoaltypo C                                              ,13.P008    3542    6,7.0 S  18,356.3  64,625.6    2.0   3.9   2.5    .   9.8  U1.6
d. Type c - nOn'P*pd
LAbo:                                                    206.)1   926.0  1.7.    ,604.8  1,013.2   5,941.5    0.3   0.5   0.9   0.0   0.?  2.9
Haterial to58.3  1,704.6  3,4L98.0  3,681.1  331)9.5  32.579)3   0.2   0.  ,*j    .                                                       .    .
Subttaltype ;*C - nonopipd56.  2.16.1  S.266.t S.112.0   ,1.1120.6    0.1   I's   26 1 2.S   2.3   9.0
subtotal Water Supply System.                                6,R172 35,404.4 29,938i.0 32.563.2 30,39.9:' 114,034.4   -3.3   1.5  14.1  15s.9  14.355.
2. sanitation Vacilitles                                     1..222-91 2.423.? 448.   634.0jj 4  20.603.0    0.6   1.2   2..6   3.0  2.8  30.2
subtotal civil Iletba                                           7,940.3 31,828.2 34.2F17.? 3873. o .1. 134,898.2    3.9   8.7  1130.9  11.6  65.
S. Coods and Squipsent
3. Woter supply a Seantation Squ1p"ant a matetials
Iquipsent                                                   81.9    989.7    674.7    376.5          -  2,660.9    0.4   0.5   0.3   0.1      -   3.3
IeeIas                                                       -33.6 ,2.03,805.1  3,84.   12 001.                       0.7   1.    .9 17    .
Subtota water Supply A SanItation Equipamet 6 Mterials         819.9  2,121.3  3,950 . :7  3,902.2  '3, 504.9  1850    0.4  -1.3   1.9   3.9   I.1   7.2
2. Ottic. Squipmant                                            281.0    127.1     95.9     99.3      90.2    100.1    0.4   0.1      -     -         0.1
S. rducational Materials                                       841.0  3,445.4  1,476.1  1,558.6     76.7  51,398.4    0.4   8.7   0.1   6.6      -   2.6
4. Purniturs                                                    31.2                 -                  -      3.2
S. Vehicles 
Care                                                        346.1        --                                346.1    0.2     -        -     -      0.2
motarcycles                                                 348.3    412.6    45.       6.        17.1   3,5S". 8    0.1   0.2   8.2   0.2  4,j  40.8
Subtotal Ve3*lcloe                                             494.4I   432.6    451.9  4165.9    117.1   1,941.9    0.2'    -:i  1i           3 .1   0.9                                       00
6. Computer                                                     693      053      39.4     40.7        -     154.3    0.2   0.1            *         0.4
Subtotal Goode end EquIpment                                    2,88.   4,617'.5  6,834.8   6,46.56  3,077.0  23,650.2   1.4  -2.3   2.9   3. -0  -1.  13.5t
C. teChnical Assistance sand Training
I. Coaeiltancy Services
3ntsuastiaena  coa.ulteate                                1,297.3  .1,09.5   728.6    660.5   778.1   4,574.2    0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.4   2.2
incountgr Consultant,                                     1,2.   ,33S,0.Od!                    4 J*.291.6    1.6 ,2.AAA    2.1  tj4   9jj
Subtotal cmisultaacy Services                                4,618.   1,8.55238.2   .1.    ,8.   24,865.7    2.3   2.6  i.I 2.    2212.3
2. training oAn lEOkalops                                    2,300.7  5,229.5  6,41.1.  9,376.6  3,027.9  26,427.6    1.2   2.6   1.1   4.6  1.5  32.9
3. Design, Survey sA  Studies IPeas                            406.0  1,188.6  3,421.2  2,705.7  2,560. 0  360,04.2    0.2   0.8   1.7   1.3   3.2   5.3
4. Design 80,1.. a supervl.sio
trave  Expenose                                             735.3  1,289.0  3,572.2  1,881.5  1,199.2   6,8697.1    0.4   0.6   0.8   0.9   0.6   3.2
ofiies Sapenees                                           1,301.5  2,084.0  2,381.8  1,735.4 1.J..UIL  a 441.7    8.6 --ha  1..1 __jJ   0.6 -A.lli
Suibtotal *siai  Aeela. S Supoevision                        2,4.I,9.03100361,    44    5.640.    4                         4    ...Ja ,-el 1.1 .
Subtotel technical Assistanco and tgoining                      9,.441.71 3,634.5 3084511   20,736.7 12,105.1  "I7,136.   4.6 1.    9.2  10.3  -6.3  31.6U
D. Praoect 1164agonett
.tlomorarta                                                    MA0.    150.      141.6   116.8    186.5    040.2    0.1   0.        .1   0.1   0.1  0.4
2. Travel Sapeass                                              442.7  1,849.0  31760.0  2,008.0  1,595.7   6,965.2    0.2   0.5   0.9   1.0   0.0  1.4
3. meetings 3 Workshops                                        643.7  3,0.03190.4  1,300.0  13,38.51  5,500.2    0.3   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.3  2.7
4. Ofelcs 683j,enee                                            342.1    360.8    319.8    399.0   42.0.   1,904.0    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.9
5. 0434 Offceo Equipment                                       244.9    341.2    396.0- 450.0   .741.6   1,914.3   jj .J -..2! ,.jJ ....   6.....
subtotal 9:o$ect mea6vg,maaL                                    1,622A 44j.6  ,91.4 44l6 1. A!                                 1.5,3...j       ....L2
total 930.lSCt ~~~6tS                    22,060.7 43,121.7 62,969.6 69,993.1 56,6006 252, 7559   10.8  20.1  30.7  34.3  27.68 321.301  21.6 12
Wed May I9 M9OM:5  199
Discrepancese ane doe to rouadlas errrs.
0-I Sspeuditar Accounts bt tears



1. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     W investm_nt            e. *
Sseitt Mosi by C.pmoa 
Wakem~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sale"no
Ubot                                3,940.S                                                                          3,046.5  10.0   UtBupth 3611.0
Uprgiaea        isalolag s                                               hsi
Lo3et                alt.tio   alyt1atitutsl           T.clmCsI   hct                    It&iU SM
J2&       SEISl      5nlt             avl.m.t4   Asistane Iem.mt    It-.L.
1. towoatesoT C   -st    p
A. 41.11  W1S
I. Vbtet    Supply System
A. type 2                                             11,200.2          -                                             -- a,aoo.*  10.0  *.o.o
b. botyp  *,060.5                                                       _          ,                       _          _           _ 1,7.3   1o..0  a 6.l
Suttotal tpe U                                        I                                                                                           0-0 -  -  12.0312   t    t
c. tMpe C
stht                                               11,310.0          -          - o                                -           ,   15,310.0   t0.0  1,531.0
d. tyeC - ousp4ip
abote                                               4,661.5          -          -                       _          _           -     ,661.5  10.0   466.1
SubtetI tp  C -                                                         acopied  -  - _                               --  _      -
Subtotal WVter Supply .Sytem                                                 -     -  -2-                                             - 0A2oA   10.0  0.Ois.6
2. SOaftf e atcoacilit                                                                                               33,f.    IltS 3.7              10. 
Subocat ionil V ateials,9.5                                         1. 1.7--                                                            10 ,621 0.  a0'561.
6. Goods sad Iqupeaatn
V.hValetsupyaSlltc    uiea      teas
CaSqrlpet                                               630.5        *9.2     1a,7.7 _ _                                         -    2,2s7.*  10.0   220.7
Subtotal Vat Supply 4 Snitation Su6t  Ieials -.                     922.       1,437.7 --                                          -   110
2. otic SaliGods t                                             -           -          -                       -      s30.0       m5.0       605.0  10.0    6.1
a. indcalol Materials                                          -           -    4,119.6                      -           -      *71.7    4,31.5  10.0   039.2
*. Pusoture                                                    _           _          _                      _           _        3.0        33.0   1.0    2.3
S. Vehicles                                                                                                              -       30.        300.0  10.0    30.0
C. tofbutcsl A"Istasa wttatini
1. Con"ttZq suIcz
,"ot_tr C411t"ent                                           _                                           _  ;66A  I @.            -    MAM    AP. Ie  e-2.
Nootycos-                                                                      130.0-    1                             -.          -    1360 1.
2.  r ehlcles -gt trt                                       "A            -      ,1,3.6                16.603.    -           -          20,964.0  10.0  1,eN.o
6      n.Optes 5    NA st-41  goe                        e    .            -      *55.7       -_._                              660.        60.0  10.      eMA
C. tocnicon AsI*tooc a o ubtrama
Trtvel  oosi    sa7.s                                       -           -                            3,26.0    1,365.6           -    3,70        0.0   3o721.5
otal  onsultan  serviesr                                   =                             - -    -,--               - _Wi 'i 7s a 
subto talnedancl   stos      &0 .0nin.                                       -    4,122.3                06,031.    1                  -   2 , .       0.0  19.0
3. Cosign SuvyadSsis10.                                  ,6.                      5.                              1,002.3               0,05 100 5.0
Up.                                                       3. _                                       3,126.,413..    1,444.6  10.    523.0
0(11.. 1 U-StIS Co- S.O05.0    Jfj44                                                                                             - 25 59@.6   U,68X.6   31 tf  #eS1
Sb   Ctwlasi .1Assist    and, 2 5a9.i -,16@t                                                                                                     4 31  1.11.1  611  .0  i:.  6. -141-
sutotal C"alpcle  6   lt mar 5 ot                                        en                                                      1410;&831W    -77 Ie75X
Tota unugm                                                   -9.37       2s o.    -i.5.                     309-7             -      ,666.0      66650.0100      6.
2. tsevel Supeaso.                             -~~~~~~~~~~24            - 29  .                -3.         -    6,640.6    5,444.6 -   10.20.
taxes                                                          * 017.      2,72S.       757.6                      -        C       t,lt6.0 1,11   00 1t8.      11.2u1.6
foreign  otobgaceso                                            9 ,132.6    2,11.0    3,160.7                 3,300.2      6.1 07.0            1042.5   9.1 1,06.2
tbd 11ay 39 19s46,12 1993 
mao Diocreauclo ay   du  so olndug aryoogs                         3.1 Supcodltmtr kAcoeta by Cmpoanets
Discreancties are due to  diundtg  errosr.



VW      t ml  ion)
Supeadiuza A  nto b    amint
glt0 I          ? .e     4                                           tulc
tse,                 et ts           tgetLtt.aetl tLoc             e t
A. civil wba
1. water _mw    syte
a. tgp A                                               6.5           -                                                               .5  no.0   0.5
b. tpo ft  
t"bee                                                                                      1.9                                         10.0   0.2
Subt      t-t  a at ib                                                                                                                            _
0. typeC
label                                                7.5          -          -                       -          -           -    7.T  10.o0  0.
btotl T c                                                                                                                         - ' :   --- a
4. type c - nOpipeO
bW                                                  2.3                   _                               ,     - _                      .    0.2
bld pc)_                                                                                             -           .               Aai       . . .4I
Sut*.e Ilbpe C-t  bApe                                                              __._._.-_-_-_.._._*.
t. Boe,ltettas te4Utl                                       -     .j               -                       -          -          -  ...je  io.i  .s
Subtotal Clvi Vabt.                                         4.4         0.0                       -                -          -     ^   51.5  151tI.
a. Seeds sad Syw*slpae
1. Wthr SWyPIp G SItatim tiqrulpt  a  abtarlak
twpoe.t                                                              -        0.t                       -          -          -    1.10.0   0.1
Iate*els                                                           4.' -1
Subtotal Walet Sm1t a Saultatie Bp t Nketrlla             o.t         J.S                                  - 1-                              A
2. ot.ic. $ipasent                                          ,           -          ,                      .         0.2        0.1    0.3  10.0       -
3. shcatlaol Nbtelcal-                                                           2.-                                           0 .1  1.   0.0   0.2
*. tltue                                                                -0.0                                                                          -                          -
Cato V.01.1..                                            -2-                                            -          -        0.2    0.2  10.0       -
*15OOCO Vi                                                                      - e                                                                                             8 .       fl 
Subotarel Vbile
l.  .                                                       -                                              -iel       -    . *a        .; 4.Jib  - e 1  |e.
Subatta Coefod. ee  qulpeat                               S**-~           .          .;                                           0.       *   10. 0 i
C. teebetcel Aa.lteaea l a tt4a)w
1. Comlzts   Seeicee
Integrational a1ltaeot                                   -           -          -                       -        1.9          -    1.8  10.0   0.2
facomigy Catot_te_ -                                                                                   4 -                   . _           1 4
stt     a C   tt Svices                                     -           -          -                      .          .             -   .2
2. t iam esbo                                               -           -        2.t 0.                               -          -    0.2  10.0      .
1:. 'al". SJqy aid StUAtee too$                           3.3           -        0.1                               0.S           -     .2   1.0    .4
4 D*alga   el  aupelsla
tzaa B1 pe..                                           0.2           -          -                     l.t        0.7                2.5  10.0   0.3
OUttk BIesoo                                             -  _                                                -AA                           a ____
Subtotl aa   2w w                                                               ,2 S!-  .7                   .                   -           1
Subtotal ?ofd&ical Asaata    *A Icala Taia-og                1.6          -                                                         -6.  .       .      .0
D. prject I     _ftsogent
1. Ueala                            _                              _          _                 _                _             0.3    0.3  19.5   _ 
2.ta,  bpeoo                                                -           -          -                      -           -        2.7    2.7  20.0   0.3 
3.  7htta03bs                                               -           -          -                      -           -        t.2    t.2  10.9   0.2
. Of1t. gnpaw-    -                                                          -                            -           -        9.7    0.7  10.0   0.1
6. 0o4@to   at _                                                                         - -                             -4- -_.t. 444A
S,bot otIW   Projet SL                                                                                                                     ii
ysial Cawtgdtoa                                                 4.0        1.2         0.4                    1.A         0.0        0.7     .       -
2.1. cotingencies                                              _.-    2e- --..  ....2}    ;
teIst 2992251 4W615                           -u~~I         26.1        7.0 IA                            10"  *-KI-*4'*  -zi
tfarm                                                           4.0        1.3         0.4                      -                    0.5    6.    9.1   0.1
Iteol   O_aea                                                   1.4        0.0         1.7                    1.          1.0   2u.2   10.0   9           0.
Wed Nay 1t I0,46lts 1W$_
4-1 Ea4dt%w* Aouuts by  Ceapomota
Dtoorepoucebe at  du  to  rounin   *errs.



- 121 -                        ANNEX 11
iNDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME CO N                                 PROJCT
MONITOmRNG, EVALUAnON AmD FEEDBACK MEaNISM
I. What are the principles behind WSSLIC's Monitoring and Evaluation System?
In most World Bank-funded water and sanitation projects, the institutional
and technical design details are worked out during appraisal, and remain fixed throughout
project implementation. Monitoring and evaluation systems, under these circumstances,
verify whether implementation activities are taking place according to defined milestones
for the physical, financial and institutional components.l/ WSSLIC's implementation
model (see Annex 3), by contrast, retains design flexibility in every batch of subprojects,
with the lessons learned from initial phases being utilized to improve succeeding year
designs. Clearly, this 'programmatic' approach depends on whether relevant information
i made available at the appropriate time (i.e. before project preparation commences for
the next batch of subprojects).
'The guiding principles behind the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
under the WSSLIC model are two-fold. First, relevant infonnation gathered for evaluation
and feedback will utilize data from existing sources as much as possible, particularly
because GOI has several standardized information gathering and reporting systems.2./
Second, 'timely' information from over 1400 villages is practical only if there are strict
limits on how much information is to be transmitted to the higher levels (Levels II, I and
Pusat) of government.
The major risk to guard against is one of information overload. In order
to avoid this problem, the monitoring and evaluation system will follow the principle that
incremental data collected must be usable by those responsible for collection. For
example, if information is needed on community processes, an appropriate source could
be the records of VWSC meetings. While an evaluator can utilize the information
contained in them to secure a chronological account of conflict resolution and get a sense
1I The exceptions are the Water and Sanitation Project for Low Income Communities (Brazil), The
Community Waer and Sanitation Project (Sri Lanka). in the health setor, the Community Health
and Nutrition Project m in Ilonesa also uses a similar approach.
7.I Some are sectoral, such as those followed by the Minstrie of Public Works and Health, while
others are multi-sectoral (e.g. reporting fonmats followed by PIMPROS, during the annual planning
review process.



- 122 -                       ANNEX 11
of participatory processes at work, the same records also provide VWSCs with historical
preceden  on village-level decision-making processes.
U.   What variables should be monitored in the project cyde?
The M&E system is designed to verify whether the implementation process
is achieving project objectives; and if not, assist in modifying or altering project design.
A consderable part of project preparation activities is designed to create the appropriate
insiutional envirownent for communities to choose a service level they want and are
willing to pay for, while during the remaining phases of the project cycle, the objective
is to construct, operate and maintain the selected service levels for water and sanitation
infrstrucure. For operational as well as analytical convenience the M&E system Is
divided into two phases: the projed preparadon phase, where the focus is primarily on
whether Instiutional strengthening objectives were achieved, and the constmrdon andpost-
construton phase, in which the project's engineering and economic objectives are
monitored and evaluated.
Tables 1 and 2, for the two phases are divided into ftree colunms. The first
column Is a checldist of facilitation activities (most of which is nonnally completed at
project appraisal). Given the programmatic naumre of the project, this checklist has to be
verified every year before a new batch of villages enters the project cycle. The second
colum reports on the some key characterisdcs of the implemenaion process. The third
column describes outcome indicators, which can be measured against the project
objectives.
OX Monitoring project preparation or pre-construction activities
Project preparaion under WSSLIC places considerable emphasis on the
i     onal s ening aspects, administered through the Ministry of Home Affairs
(BANGDES and BANODA) and Ministry of Health. The outlays for 'softwae' aspecs,
such as trining, technical assstance, hygiene and sanitation education are substantial, with
the objective of improving the quality of insttutions and institutional processes.
From the project's perspective, successful completion of project preparation
would result in a well-articulated Village Action Plan (VAP), in which service levels
reflect village demand for water and sanitation infrastructure. Outcome indicators report
on the quality of VAPs and fte dmeliness of completion.
Table 1 summarizs the indicators for process and outcome aspects of
project preparation.  nformaton on my of these topics have been collected during
project appraisal for starter villages, but as explained earlier, require to be repeated from
batch I vilages onward. This information also provides baseline data on the project.



-123-                               ANNEX-l
Table 1:
Facilitation cheddklit          !Proess lndieators                Outome _nd satr
Finalization of:                 * VAP preparation procem:        O Description f technica option
cshosen ink VAP:
- Selection criteia for villages  - D0i VWSC was coasfiAed         - P?teod won
- Number of meetings of VWSC     - Pgod wo withandpump
- Rules Vwmuing VWSCs, VAP      befor VAP was finalzd              - Gratiy flow pped stem wth
Proom                             - % of tageted benficiaries who    publio tas
paricipatd in selecing prqet      - Oavty flow piped system with
- Tohnical design crteria       desi                             handOump
- Number of meetinp  btween       Pipd sytem witb pwqps and
- Pukd chanlinAg mohanisms      beneficiaries and staff (with    publio tps
department affiliaions) in reportn  - Piped systm with  mps and
- C4ovdinatin peurs amog       peziod                            h     _
depa_t                              Completon dates for VAP        - Hupsups
- Datof aprval/rection of        - Oth.e
- Tohicid  isgsWnoo procedut    VAPs
* Comnunity ontibudons aed
- Facilitators for communty      * Training activities:          in VA?s of:
develmoment processes                                              - cuh
- Peonms tained at community and    - maiab
- Procurement and disbursement  offcial levs for.                  - labo
guidelines                    - construction of was stem
- Fnancial reporing           0 Date of approl of VAPs
- Cification on logistia   i       - O&M of was sytem
-TEiqmdituDesincur=Wd           Dateof   utof
coansucionm
0 Hygien Education:
.~~ -ezpendibue
- pesons coved
ii. Monitoring performance during the couctio  and opeational phases
During the construction and operational phases, the ficus of the monioring
system shifts to reporting on whether the project's engineing and economic objetves
were achieved, and on untanding the causes of variations in performance.  The
project's direct engineering objective b to deliver reliable, clean waer supply and hygienic
sAntaton.  t also has the broader objective of delivering health and economic benefits to
the targeted communities. Table 2 presents a facilitation checklis, and relevant proces
and outcome indicators dth  requre montoring. Agreement will be sought wih GOI
dwuing negotadons to monitor the project performance using these indicators.



- 124 -                               ANNEX 11
Table 2
FacilIatIo Checklis                 Proess Tudlators                  outcome Indicatoui
 Impmnaion capacity               * Efficimoy of Yeorcing V*         S Fo Wat sply:
-ntan"w,:I.                       commitments                          - Prjected and acta unit
- Sbxff woriloadd  at kt_amam ad    - Date when ommunity              cost/capita for subproject
dea levelb                          ontibutio  were available           - Poplation benefiting frm
- Time available for WSSUIC-        - Acta contibution of oommunity  improved ooverag
lated fac an acvitioes             contributions:                       - Water availability/capita befWOe
- RequirementB of incomena  staff     % as cash                       and after pr4ect
- Dat of appointment of               I as mateial                      - Repore brakown rate Of
incrmntal s ff                        % as labor                      completd sysdems
- Nationallev                      - Ext of shortfall if any from     - Aveage time lapsV between
- Pvincia level                  VAP commitment                      brown ad repais
. Kabapaten level                  - Steps taken against defulting
- Desa lvel                      community mmbs                      * Fr snation:
- PireedW    d actual unit
0 Firnaizaon of audit and reportng   0 Procedural delays:             costlcapita in subprqect area
system                              - Timo dels in acquisition of      - Description of option chn:
Land                               Private toiLets
Funding for project ativities      MCKs
COmIdtaltB                         Larins
Procurement sheu  delays         - Popultion benefting from
Pef  aificaion                  improved ooverage
Adverismet                       - L     epayment peforman  (if
Bid evaluation                 any)
Awards                           - Brdn rate (for MCKs)
* Assessment of longerm health
benefits
_ Reportd decline in
.nciideaceOOO poplation of:
- Skin infections
- Trachoma
- Gsutreaterit
-Hepatits
- Flarisis
- Hokworm
* Long-term economic benefits for
an aver   houseod:
- Reductions in average time
taken to fetlch wate
- Reductions in prico paid for
water
* Long-term environmental benefits
- ohmages in bod, cod levels, and
odliform oontent of watr bodies in
subpr.ect area



- 125 -                       ANNEX 11
mL  ORGANIZG ThE MONITORNG AND EVALUATION SYsTW
There are two principal sources of information on the proJect cycle in
Indonesia:
(a)   Da generated by the planning (PSD) process. The PS1) process is a
two-channel (regional and sectoral), bottom-up planning process beginning
at the desa level with the VAP, and ending at the national level through the
RAKORNAS process. The executing agencies, Dinas PU II (construction
and technical assistance), Dinas Kesehatan II (hygiene education and water
quality monitoring), Bagian Pembangunan (mstitutional development at TK
II level), and Bangdes (commnity participation and development) would be
sending their proposals with supporting data to BAPPEDA II for project
fimding, along with copies to their level I offices. A consolidated WSSLIC
plan gets submitted to BAPPEDA I for review and evaluation.
(b)   Data coUection by PIMlROs of DIP and INPRES funds. These officials
are required under Indonesian accouning reguuions to keep records of
disbursements, of supply and construction contracts, and to report on these
regularly through their sectoral and BAPPEDA offices.
Standardized information gathering mechanisms by sectoral agencies and
PIMPROS under GOI accounting and auditing rules will thus provide most of the
infonnation on fmancial and physical progress. These reports, available on a quarterly
basis to BAPEDA II and the sectoral provincial offices, give deils of fnancial
expenditurs and achieved outputs.
Incremental data collection wil thus be restricted to ascertining whether (i)
the project objectives have been achieved at the preparation and construction phases; and
(ii) the desired quality of 'software' inputs in training, community development etc. has
been maintained.
The primary source of feedback on objectives will be the communides.
Beneficiaries are being trained to 'self-evaluate' activities in their villages, starting from
inita traiing inputs and progressing to evaluating their effectiveness in operaing and
maintaining constructed water and sanitation systems. The primary source of records will
be three registers mantained in every subproject village:
-     one recording the proceedings of the VWSC meetings, including the names
of all those who participatd;
-     another maintning the accounts, including community contributions;
-     a log book of system operations and maintenance.
These efforts are the initial steps in an ambitious attempt at improving the
capacity of community organizions to manage simple, village-level tmnicipal services.
Communities through VWSCs are expected to evaluate and discuss project performance



- 126 -                       ANNEX 11
in relation to their village. The process of evaluating local exp;. ience will build local
capacity for decision making and management.
Self-evaluation methods by benefciaries have been tested on a small scale
in some rral water projects in Indonesia. In the CARE project for self-financed rural
water supply in three Sulawesi provinces, for example, communities undertook this
function. When construction is completed in starter villages, self-evaluation methods will
be tested in all six provinces, and fed back to improve design.
Evaluaiou and use of imformation:
The task of evaluating and incorporating the lessons leamed on a yearly
basis will be undertaken by the Project Management Team at the Central level through
reviews and selective evaluations of project components. To start, all information
received on subproject villages will be reviewed,]/ and only exceptionally good and
exceptionally bad performers selected for firther study. 'Evaluation by exception' could
over-sample 'good performers', through field visits by national ms consisting of
govement officials and NGOs.4/ The teams will examine documents maintained by
VWSCs and find out the views of community groups and individuals. These will be
summarized as reports on 'lessons learned' for the national Secretariat and the IBRD
supervision missions. The lessons will form the basis of the succeeding year's project
designs.
The 'lessons learned' for the succeeding year's designs will be documented
under te following categories:
o    Demand revealing mechanisms - relating to ways in which demand was
being incorporated into project design. Did the subprojects succeed in
achieving the objective of being people centered, rather than being
technology or institution centered?
O     Problems arising during the enforcement of VAPs. If communities reneged
on their commitments what were the institutional options? If they did not
renege, what were the institutional factors responsible?
O    Whether all the feasible technical options were presented to communities.
Were technical design decisions reached interactively between engineers and
beneficiaries?
O    Whether the organization of work programs incorporated: (a) participative
decision making by conununities; (b) faciliton back-up provided by
community organizers, trainers (NGOs, Kelurahan staff etc.); and (c)
l/ Physical and fcial expenditues reportd by sectoral agences, village action plan ocment
eort received from Posyandus, kecamata, kabupaten officials etc.
I Colldaboating with the local BAPPEDA IL



-127 -                         ANNEX 1
coordination and enabling support among line agencies of PU, Dinas
Kesehatan, BANGDES, and BANGDA;
o     Cost analysis across subprojects. In outlier cases, analysis of whether costs
were higher in the engineering or in the community developmen
components;
o     Problems of logistics encountered during project execudon (issues relating
to channeling of funds, finalization of contracts, procurement etc.).
IV. SUMMNG up
The organization of the m&e system is proposed at four levels, and
summarized in Table 3:
Table 3:
lrds                        Wbo wim elgb?               Wh0 1- 0 YMU. h
N_iSAl                      APPENAS                     * Cuasiaonksin MloPjA tTm.
AJWd=kA_"fMMftf
Phwfa                       BAPPAI                      * Seowu   u at ha_iml Ivd P
Cmu1mu.egp,oinahlhw
"Wafte                      DAPPEA                      * laVelil seioadOfmm
D,,                         VWSC      0_,                     N1O(. ZMASO_M sa
..    At the village level, m&e will be done by users and VWSC menmers using
patcipatory evaluation techniques. NGOs will be used as facilitators of these
trning and capacity building exercises.
iH.    At levels U and I, monitoring of project milestones is undertaken, utilizing the
informion galhered from the uarent botom-up planning process involving villfge
project proposals (known as PSD) and government expenditure reporting
procedures. The national secrarat   only provided with information on those
subprojects that appear to be notable successes or failures.,/
iii.   At the national level, the m&e organization reviews information received from
provincial secretariats, and fom other sources. It then selects a sample of
successes and failures (over-sampling successful projects). Specialized tms of
staWconsulas are sent to the villages for discussions with beneficiaries, and
exmination of process douments on the ca  of poor performance. The lessons
learned are documened by tese team, and incorporated into the net year's
project preparation process through the issue of new guidelines and procedures.
E/ Notable uewmad faiure have to be woodig to a defined citeria by GOL



-128-                         ANNEX 11
Resoue Requreents:
No separate resources have been budgeted for the Monitoring and Evaluation
fnction becaue of two reasons. Frs, much of the data collection, as described earlier,
will conne to be a part of the rouine reporting systems for GOI offlces. Second,
incrementa data collection will be the responsibility of comunities and the National
Project Sectariat, both of which are receiving substantial resource allocations under the
Technical Assistance, Training and Capacity Building components of the project.



-129-                          ANNEX 12
WATER SUPPLY AN SANATI0N
FOR LOW INCOME Co                               PROJECT
SUPPORT FROM UNDP/WORLD BANK WATER AND SANITATION
PROGRAM AND WATER AND SANITATION DIVION
TERM OF REFnRENC
1. Background
The UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program and tfie Water &
Sanitation Division (TWUWS) witiin tihe World Ba's Transportation, Water & Urban
Development Department have experience from a number of countries in the design and
implementation of community based rural water supply and sanition projects. The
Program has assisted Government of Indonesia in the preparation of the Water Supply and
Sanitation Project for Low Income Communities, particularly the development of demand
based programmatic implementation strategies. The Program in collaboration with
TWUWS will continue to provide stategic support to the project through the Program's
Regional Group for East Asia and Pacific based in Jakarta. Ihe Program is particularly
intereted in stimlating and supporting a learning process within the project and the
documentation and dissemination of lessons that are learned.
2. Scope of Activities
The UNDP/WB Progam has agreed to provide strategic support and
assistance in dtree key areas of special intest; this will supplement the technical
assistance being provided for within the project budget;
(a)   Traiing: Assistance will be provided in the assessment of training needs,
the design of training materials and methodologies and execution of training
activities for Communities, NGOs, local and national goverment staff.
(b)   Monitoring Evaluation and Impact Asessment:  Assistance will be
provided to design and establish a monitoring and process evaluation system
and to operationalize a feed back mechanism into the project's dynamic
plamning process. The program will also assist to design mechanisms for
evaluation of the project's impacts.
(c)   Support to Stategic Superviion: Assistance will be provided to strategic
supervision including identification and liaison with NGOs, preparing tenrs
of reference for Technical Assistance, project lanch and component design



- 130 -                       ANNEX 12
workshops, conpletion of designs and Village Action Pla  (VAPs) in
starter areas, and desin and execution of special studies.
3. Timetable
Support will be available during the bridging period between project
appraisal and effectiveness and during mpiementation including the project launch
workshop and during Bank supervision missions. It is envisaged that te support will be
most intensive during the early years of the project and will taper off as local capacity is
increased. Towards the end of the project support will increase during impact evaluations.
4. LIaison and Reporting
The RWSGEAP will be the focal point for coordinating the assistance from
headquarters and regional staff who will maintain good liaison with Government and the
Bank Task Manager. Back to office reports and other specific reports will provided within
one month of the completion of any activity or mission. A detailed work plan will be
prepared each year in conjunction with the Bank task manager and GOI implementing
agencies.



- 131 -                       ANNEX 13
HiDONLS
WATER SUPPLY   SANATION
FOR LOW INCOME Co                              PROJECT
IMLM NTATON PLA  AM SCHEULE
Badkound and assumptions:  The charts portrayed in this annex
summarize the sequence of major project activities that will take place during WSSLIC
implementation and the dependencies between them. They have been prepared in an effort
to understand the relationships between all of the elements and activities of the project in
order to anticipate the impact of changes in timing or duration of any particular project
event. Through the life of the project this implementation schedule will be updated
regularly to reflect the actual timnug and duration of each event. In each province, the
project implementation secretariats will prepare similar implementation schedule that will
be updated quarterly and included in the project reporting framework to facilitate a clear
understanding of the status of project implementation and the impact of delays in executing
individual project activities.
Use of the Implementation Schedule Bar Charts: The implementation
schedule was prepared using Tineline 5.0 software. Solid black bars indicate the duration
of individual activities, whereas gray bars portray the overall duration of summary events
described by the individual activities below them. Triangles portray "milestone" events
that occur at a fixed point in time. Chart A portrays a summary of the timing of project
activities over the andcipated life of the project, with frst year activities shown in greater
detail. Chart B provides a more detailed schedule of the project activities that are
anticipated to take place during year one. Charts C and D show the timing of procurement
and year one training activities, respectively.
The following assumptions were made in preparing the charts:
1 .    Loan processing - loan negotiations will take place in May or June, 1993 and Loan
Effecdveness will occur in October, 1993.
2.    Technical assistance through firms to be engaged after Loan Effectiveness will need
to be procured following Bank guidelines. However, firms engaged on the basis
of 'letters of Guaramntee from GOI using Project Preparation Facility funds already
have the World Bank's clearance and may be mobilized immediately. Individual
consultans who are hired directly and not through a firm may also be mobilized
rapidly.



-132-                         ANNEX 13
3.   In order to limit the duration of the project, only communities In which tpe WCW
waer systems will be decided upon will be included in the fina batch of villages
srting in 1996197. All type W  and 'B' shemes will be part of Batches 1-3.
4.    Sanitation  aining and construction activities will be started only after the
completion of water supplies In each community.
Priect ctrolliog activities: In summary, procrement and training
events must precede and therefore control the tming of most other project aivities.
GCI's budgeting cycle and the dming of the release of fJnds are certainly also controlling
factors, but alternative mechanisms often exist (such as pre-fmancing, tmporary use of
different budgets, etc.) to accommodate short temn delays in the release of funds or to
absorb unanticipat expenditures.
The charts indicate that, during the firt year of project implementation, the
phasing of acdvities will be driven prinarily by the loan processing schedule and the pace
of TA and goods procurement. Regarding contract signing with International consultants,
may take up to twelve months to complete and will need to be Initiated immediately there
is a need to minimie the hiats beween the date of loan effecdveness and te mobilization
of the consultan groups. If sole sourcing is permitted or if individual consultants are
employed directiy, the TA procum  process may be reduced to a few months and could
be completed well before the date of loan effectiveness. The tming of contracts for the
procurement of goods and some services will be controlled by the date of loan
effectiveness and will affect the initiation of construction in the saer areas.
Durig subsequent years the anna release of 001 fiuns through DIP and
INPRES chaels may limit the rate of project Implemenation, but prefinancing of
specific activities at the beginnn of the fiscal year may reduce some delays.
If the duration of the project is to be limted to five years without reducing
the project scope, it will be possible to build only tpe C schemes in the final batch of
communities. Even with tis limitation it is likely that the project life will extend up to
mid-CY1999. Reducing the project scope by elimian the final batch of villages would
not firther reduce the project duraton, as the completion of types A' and B' schemes
inated in batch 3 will extend until early to mid-1999.
Funds for various project activities in each batch of communities will need
to be included in the budget of 4 consecutive fiscal years. For example, Batch 1 will
require funds for intal taining and survey activites during FY 1993/94, for training and
mobilization during FY 1994/95, and for water supply and sanitation construction during
FY 1995196 and 96/97.



m~~~~~sum ~~~~~~~prPv                                                                                                                OCIw.ldeftivcmu 000o
_______I                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................SUU@O...P
..... ... ..............  ~ ~ ~             ~            ~           ~          ~          *                             9             . ........
I  ~~~~~~~                    I                                                                         G~~~~~mmlw I '6    CPUd
.....1      ......7  7 ..    ...........                                                                                                                -   -  -      ---.---   --------_                                            _   _   _
..   . ... ........ ..   ...     ...   ... .. ....... .. .........  ......p.......... ...... ...OE~                                                                  usa        J     i
..   . . .     ...9.                                                              ...      .9...     .. .9......   .......
.........  .........    ....9......               .... .....       . ... ... ..       ............... . . ..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~g*pmA
.. . ...                                                 . .   . . .     . . ..... . .. . .. ... .. ... .. . .. ..  ... .... . .. .   . ... ...    
.       .    . . . ..   . .. . .   ..... .._..... .... ..... ..._..._..._..._._.                                                                                                                                     ._.... ..._..._..... .... ....
I. .9.....  .  ...........
.. . .-..                      9                    .         9                                                                                         ___________________________...............___________4
~~~~ . ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
I  I                 I                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CdgI II'W
.....................................  .   ~ ~~~~~.....
9                    9~~~~~~~~...   .....            ...    ....9..... .
eq.  9                   9                              9                             4                              9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .....
9         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&  Om  PLV  -m
... .............~ ~~~~~~~~~~~W                                     '  IV
_______________      m__________
*  9                          9                              9                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .........
me                      9                             9                              9                              9
solunwoo  umu ma  jo                                        --oM    uo -le  V Alddng ___M______N__N



.~~~~~~~~~~ .              .            Ds
-Tit--. --. . -.--r   rrt t4}  --- --- -  i
PO.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
..   |   I   |  ! , | ' ! X ! ~~~~~~I- q1l_
i,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SS .i !
l l !_t[ ~~~~~.......it!i ... lLlllJuJ!  
Ii m
n Im m-t-I--t--i-t-r- f
l l  ~~I I     I iiI   l   ! I   ! i iI  1      Ii   S_.
.    U  SJ1 I50  S1   I &t  i i tt S O  SS S0 USti *S* 0 0 
JX    !!C           lf     iM! MV   



-135 -                  ANNEX 13
cha rt C
s ~~~2j 1                      t       j     i  T
e~~~~ _ > T i ? i t;1Vf --
_ "   C 1  i t     Xt . i .   ;                   4
-- -           tI -- - - -T-        IT-
X    X~~     ,i i '           j' .,, _ ,  s .1 .  is., . ___
ii F_IEi!
~~~    * . e .. v     I  I~~~~~~~~~- --- ---- -
CL~~~~~~~~~S



- 136 -                      ANNEX 13
Chart D
t ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    C    1D
3 l  !   .    i    !    !    I i  !    I    s    i    !    !    !   I   j  I  I  j
I    I    I    .  .44I           * 
1' -  i-  .t   i   1 1 t1-
-. - .   .*   .4   . . .   .   . y   4. .  .    sy
i 1          i. .1.4 3 i               j    if 3 i       1 t i* f X I 
.li,*S*lS        *---         ,-1-   Ii        ee- ...            r i
s--.-_-_-- ---. --                          - --------- i C
4':..                                 ?.        I.. ii i  t -Tt-s'T' * i*inS bi.--e  .-t-
-  3   1   :  4  j     4    1   24    5           iS??~~~~4  
a                            3 I        1 r     1        iiI Tf
|      ss-~,~~-----, -   *:, ,: -                                     5fJ<~~~; 
- _ ...... r   .   .........
- ,.!  sa.         i..     . .2 s .   1j; i .L..~..2........ .   . . .2';iJQ  i   [A  j S 
S.   4;.   fI:1.:14::.1t11* Ia
I~~~~. I"                             I I      II
1:?            3                 



TasIc Nune                                  U      P      MUV     .A"      U     A*    MP    Oct    NM          on.    Jm      1.b    UV       AP      W.v   .U
(  Appasbal.
*Yr.L&processkig                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   j ....  . ..
IsdAonililuwod         :*                                                                                                                      II
______________                                    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  -.... .      .-.......... .    ..-..........    ..  .I.......... .... . ........
PWPMO TOR mid procsd"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~. .............   .......
Ppallpon of propoosal 
WNMlduk's wrs*w
lv*aatcoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ruat   .                           .i..l. ....                      . ...........-....
.,   . .-.... .....  ........ ..............      .                            .                                              4
.. ........        ....  .........  .  .  . ....................... ....    .... . - ..... -..-..-..
Tech. A,,1 ftmdsd fliounti  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  .... .....j                                                      .......  .   .    ..... ...
TA. proooss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u (or bMulno  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                        :...        -.       .....~~~~..  ........ ..
dd0n pubSm tA ~dtac



-138 -                          ANNEX  4
INDONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME Co                             PROJECT
ESATEDn Sam= OF DIS_p-ag
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Yoar       Amount per          nI$Uy1_     Disbursent profile la
semester     Amount   %                 %
1994
1                       4.0          4.0      5               0
2                       2.0          6.0      7               3
im
1                       7.0         13.0     16               6
2                       7.0         20.0     25               14
1996
1                      10.0         30.0     37              22
2                       10.0        40.0     50               34
1997
1                      10.0         50.0     62              46
2                       10.0        60.0     75               62
1998
1                       8.0         68.0     85              74
2                        8.0        76.0     95               78
1999
1                       4.0         80.0    100              90
Project Completion Date:        March 31, 1998
Project Closing Date:           September 30, 1998
La   Latest standard disburement profie for Water Supply and Sewerage projecs in
Indonesia (June 11, 1991.



- 139 -                       ANNEX 1S
INONESIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SAATON
FOR LOW INCOME Co                              PROJECT
,SUPERVON PLAN
1.         Tne programmadc approach adopted for the project calls for the detailed
design of the First-Year implementation program and an indicative understanding of the
overall scope of the project. The subsequent years of the project's investments will be
designed, stage by stage, as the project moves ahead. With all the elements of the project
design which are, indeed, innovative to both GOT and the Bank, there will be need for
structural learning to improve the project design and implementation in a phased manner.
Moreover, in a demand driven project of the scale , scope and diversity of WSSUC,
monitoring and evaluation would be essential to modify and improve the implementation
perpformance through a feedback mechanism. Therefore, project supervision will be far
more staff-intensive and greater than for most other Bank. Supervision will give emphasis
to two areas:
(a) Routine supervision of the project with particular attention to ensuring that
project funds are timely released in a timely manner and reach remote
districts and villages and procurement-related logistical processes are
successfully handled; and
(b)   "Strategic" supervision of project elements such as selection of scheme
based on demand and poverty criteria, application of cost recovery policies,
training and community development processes, etc. are adequately pursued
through tecmnical and institutional design and that changes in project design
reflect the actual performance and realities by operational experience.
2.          The supervision requirements for the proposed project would be complex
and staff-intensive because of the geographic dispersal of the project provinces and areas.
GOI would need to collect and provide to the Bank all routine and implementation data to
assist with the supervision process.  In this regard, project implementation
consultants/NGOs (Annex 9) would assist GOI in the monitoring and evaluation of project
activities, collect and analyze relevant data and assist project supervision.
3.          The recommended supervision arragement would be for the Bank's mission
to supervise the project twice each year. The Jis mfslon would be in May/June and
consttute an overall review of project implementation during the preceding year. During
this mission, an assessment of the programmatic approach would be undertake and actions
planned for improving the project design wili be reviewed. Taking into account the
budgetary allocations, the annual implementation program for the following fiscal year will
be reviewed and appropriate changes will be initiated as necessary. FinancW aspects of
the project covering cost recovery applications, accounting systems and audit issues will



- 140-                        ANNEX 15
also be supervised. The second mission would take place around October /November each
year and progress in all project components will be supervised. Field visits will be
iniiated to review the status of project planning and implementation including the
preparation of village action plans, progress in the training and community participation
aspects, physical works and the performance of consultants and NGOs. During FY93/94,
a project launching workshop is planned to be conducted sometime in September/October
and the first supervision mission will participate in the workshop. The Bank supervision
resources would be as follows:
Staff Weeks
Activity       Staffing             Year 1     Year 2    Year 3-5
(a) May/June Supervision   Task Manager                     2          2
bmplementation review   Sanitary Engineer               2          2
Financial Analyst                 2          1
Inst/Community Expert             2
(b) October/November SPN  Task Manager           2          2          2
Review progress       Sanitary Engineer      2          2          2
Financial Analyst      2          2          1
bst/Community Expert  2           2          1
Procurement Advisor    1          1
(c) Project Launching     Task Manager           1
Workshop              Sanitary Engineer      1
Ist/Community Expert   1
(d) General Supervision   Task Manager           4          4          3
Activities            Financial Analyst      2          2          1
Sanitary Engineer      2          2          1
Tota Staff Requrement (per year)            20         25         16
4.          It is to be noted that the commencement of Year 1 is considered as the
beginning of GOI FY 93/94; therefore, no first mission is planned for Year 1 in May/June
1993 when negotiations and Board presentation are scheduled. Thus, the first supervision
mission is expected to take place in September/October 1993 during which the project
launching workshop will also be conducted. This mission would require sufficient staff
resources to initiate project start-up including training and community development
activities, completion of VAPs and most importantly, continued briefing of project
implementation teams on innovative elements of project design. RSI staff will also be
involved in project supervision particularly in respect of day-to-day follow-up actions.



-141-                        ANNEX IS
S.          UNDP/World Bank Regional Water and Sanitation Group for Eat Asia and
Pacific (RWSG-EAP) stationed in Jakarta will also provide support to project
Implementation and supervison. Iheir role is considered important to provide support to
monitoring and evaluation activities to ensure adherence projec. principles.



- 142 -                       ANNEX 16
NONSI
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
FOR LOW INCOME Co                             PROJECT
Lis OF DOCUMENTS AVAABE  ON PRojCr FLE
1.   Water Supply and Sanitaion Sector Study: Mistry of Public Works; faced
through ADB technical assistance program; Volume I: Main Report; Vohm  II:
Appendixes, 1989.
2.    Community Self Financing of Clean Water and Sanion Facilities in Indonesia,
CARE Indonesia; a Peasibility Study, 1988.
3.    First East Java IBRD Water Supply Project; Rural Water Supply in hdonesia, with
Special Reference to East Java; MMP Asia and PT Deeco; 1989.
4.   Rural Water Supply and Sanitaton Project, East Timor Province; UNDP/WHO
Poiect, INS/861025; Ministry of Health, Directorate General of Communicable
Disease Control and Environmental Health, 1988.
5.   INDONESIA: Evaluatg Community Management; PROWWESS/UNDP: A Case
Study, 1989.
6.   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in Idonesia: Midterm Evaluation Report for
CARE/Indonesia's Community Self Financing of Water and Sanitation Project,
1991.
7.   Evaluation of e NPRES Water Supply and Sanitation Program; Akademi Penilik
Kesean, Tehnologi Sanitasi, Jakarta and YIS; Ministry of Healh, UNICEF and
WHO, 1987.
S.    Central Java - Small Towns Urban Development Sector Project Improvement of
Sanitation System for 38 Small Towns, Final Report ; TJhn Taylor and Sons and
PT Dacrea; Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General of Cipta Karya, 1989.
9.    Nua Tenggara Barat (NB), Environmental Sanitation md Water Supply Project,
Design Document, Volume I and II, AIDAB, 1990.
10.  Report of the Netherlands' Mission on Drinking Water and Sanitaon with Special
Reference to the Evaluation of the IKK Program in Aceh and Evaluation of OTA33
RWSS in West Jawa, 1988.



- 143 -                      ANNEX 16
11.  Indonesia Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project for Bengkulu and Lampung
Provinces, INS/851031; Report of the Joint Evaluation Mission, UNDP/WHO,
1991.
12.  Water Supply and Sanitation Project for Low Income Conununities (WSSLIC);
Final Project Preparation Report and Annexes, GOI, 1992.



IBRD Lu. xxx-lND (Watr Supply ai Sudtos proect to obnoer C_jintd
Coolaed Anna Project Fbnndl Stotemeats (Byproe C _mowi)
0OI Fbcal Yer Ap  1, 19   Mh 31, 19
_ __~~~~~~~~~Ast____
Camp-                                                    B t forf _M-                               for      fes    -          A.dutal
neat             PROJ&W  COMPONEfT              IBD (DP)  IBRD (SA)   001     TOTAL  IBRU (DV) IB1D ()    GOt        TOTAL      *A% of
COde   __        _   R_____         __ RD                                                RD         p        RD        R         1
I                                                          42  .  -  5.    -4t34+5     7         a         9    -17i+9   J11i'1:6
A     Wtler SUPp                          ..,___
c     itygene old $sn ador REd ato n               _ _  __            __  __                                                     _
-~~~~ -.
D     Trae;       C e                ^.                                                         
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ew AAld "ta
_____,_ -                                                 -_                                                                   -  
IORD (DP) Covea4difedpaymtt&speclcmmattoberecordedb  odwitdw auWizftion aUS Doar.
(its conversontoRp6 apivatatis besdon Brsmiddla exdmiangeatecpeyn)e  at)
1RD1 (A): Covs paynet ikomspe aowun to be orded bed on SPMLS (RI) and SPMOW (SPJ) in Rp.
IF



- 14S -                 ANNEX 17
i X -                      -
JIT X
IA  I   '   -  . .
R 'Ii          _______       
I]_ -t    ______   ______k
iii    h...a                            i.9
d.l                                  .5 ga ._   . J
e |     fi                  i       I



[BUD La. szx-lND (Water Sap$y nd Smla    Prject for Low l-o) Csnm         )
ComaMated Anal Proet badal Ssm (ByRapeitsSunma)
GOI Fhcl Year Api 1,9         _ 31,19
As of Mar  31.19
Etva                                                       ______Dud   hr dim                             ______ Acal for iwal                ______    Acftuaa
Swan.               EXPENDITURES SUMMARY                    1ORD (DP)  JURD (SA)    co1         TOTAL    iRD(P)IBRD ()               001       TOTAL           % of
Cede                                     _ _                   Rp._        Rp.         Rp6      Rk        _  Rpr  _      RpL.Bp                  Rp. BAd..d
1                            2                               3           4          5       6-3+4+5        7           8         .9         10-7+8+9    11-10:6
= - God & Eqlzei                                             ___                       _______ _____                                         ___
I   aD woe                                               _ _  _
_i     Cauclulaeras____ _____                                                                             ____ -_
114  Eqpasto  at    _                     _         _                                                                                         _
114 VbhCltes                                                _____         __ __   _       __   __      _ __._,.
Tr---                                                                                                '.- -u--n
:i  Lomapuifrn                         ;_-__._.
m- T_ - s                                                                   _                     __                             .
lIt-    Comalta  Services
11-b   DesIgn, sueys a studies      ,                                              _
V      l|rronage  --       -_*___
iv     T"es and Duties                             _         __       _                                                                                       .    ._.
TOTALS
_       _-       _                             -      .                           -           .
IBID(DP)  Covei &dir  paiyet A spedWal ounnkmcnf, to he recorded based an weUjidawudlmiutiozao in US Dolla.                                                 &.pM A4
(its onyanu to Rp. oavat is based an DWs Md   cAw radt ea paymant ddt)
DBMD(SA): Cov  pama       specal tn,acoea1 So be fecoftd bed on L8M-1    ) and SPM-U (SPJ) ian Rf.



IBRD L. xnx-lND (WaterSpp  ad Sia     rojet hfor Low me Cmmmdtta)
Consolated C     _mnuoWe Projed Finaial saemen (By Espedum Stmv=y)
GOI Fbcal YearAprg1 IM. 19harcb 3t. t9
As of____
-                                                                                  _     _     _    _     _     _    __~~~Ji 
'upI                                                      Cau_tIve ap to end of sa    r                C        ae up to endtl fls  , r               Uni"pd
SU&_.             EXPENDITlRES SUMMARY               | I1RD (DP)  IIIR  (&A)    cO!       TOTAL   IIRD (DP)  IllRD (SA)       CO       TrAL   CnttactMonm.
_ 2                                                     3           4          5       63+t4 5       7          8            9      i0-748i9       11-10:6
Il--  .eg,             _ _ey   and   st d e                     ___  _  __                         _ _  _ _ _  _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _
V    rjetMa.pma                                    _ ___  ____ ____ _                                         
_  ___ _ __ _ _ ____ --_ .                                                                                                ___'  _  __          ---
Cu i Goobn                                                                              . 
-_                                                        -                      -    -          
n             s      -- ,                                            -               .
II-b    Co_, eys d  dudtf .._
1389(84) covneusjaayvmetAnsealacui,o orcrdbseonIML(K)adSP-USJmR
_.-~~~~.
TV     Tp"w"g,   '. 
ne    Projedmm                                             _            .                    .
_                          _nws md Dodo
Col cowe10 t Rp eqiaA is W36d cx Bb nuddle euage nc an paymnt 4olc)
HR(SA): C     g_t fixm speal ccou, b breamiW b   Z SPM-19 (RK) aidSPM-OU(PJ) ixRp.



'ORD 24800
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So.th ChinoSeo /Igv'    NOe
a   13 ~~~~~\   t  >                           r       >1-X<p>   , ~~~~~~~~~PHIUPPINE5S /     WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
X  +  tXMALAYSiA |         N                    8 t            q &v~~~117UN~l                           FOR LOW INCOME COMMUNITIES
%  >i:  <  t  /        <       /       tt              ' ^oe               )                @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MANCE HQUAMES
|  N 4 N E              ,                    S                                X                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH PAC(FIC OCFAN 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25                                                                                 I R INDAN OEN  2  5 ' ' ' "'
26 UNS           7      r G. YOi                                                                        27 0r
88cK r                                 >l rt                                                                          9T      A I 



