Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20420
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36290; SCL-3629A; SCPD-3629S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 80 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR
LOW INCOME CONMMUNITIES PROJECT
June 16, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of March, 2000)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp I million = US$ 133.33
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 7,500
FISCAL YEAR
April 1   March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS        - National Development Planning Agency   MOH         - Ministry of Health
BPKP            - Central Audit Bureau                   MONEV    - Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in Government
Bupati          - District Chief Executive               MOHA        - Ministry of Home Affairs
Cipta Karya     - Ministry of Public Works (MOPW)        MTR         - Mid-Term Review
(CK)
CFC             - Central Functional Committee           NGO         - Non-govemmental Organization
CPS             - Central Project Secretariat            NPP         - Net Present Value
CTC             - Central Coordination Committee         Pimpro      - Project Manager
DED             - Detailed Engineering Design            PKK         - Family Welfare Organization
DEPKES          - Ministry of Health (MOH)               Puskesmas  - Community Health Center
DINAS/PU        - Provincial Dinas Public Works          RWSG/EAP - Rural Water Supply Group/East Asia & Pacific
Dusun           - Hamlet, or village quarter             RWSS        - Rual Water Supply & Sanitation
ERR             - Economic Rate of Return                SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
GOI             - Government of Indonesia                TKK         - District Level Coordination Team
HIS             - Health Impact Study                    TKP         - Provincial Level Coordination Team
HSII            - Hygiene and Sanitation Education       TKC         - Sub-district Level Coordination Team
IBRD            - International Bank for Reconstruction and   UPS    - Village Level Organization for WSSLIC
Development
Kabupaten       - Local (Level II) District Government   YAP         - Village Action Plan
LKMD            - Village Development Council            WID         - Women in Development
MOF             - Ministry of Finance                    WSS         - Water Supply and Sanitation
WSSLIC    - Water Supply & Sanitation for Low Income
Communities Project
Vice President:    Jemal ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:        Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:       Alan Ruby, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Howard Barnum, EASHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
(LOAN 3629)
THE
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR
LOW INCOME COMmUNITIES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     1l
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  1 8
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   27
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 28
Annex 10. Borrower's Comments (unedited)                                              33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Acknowledgment
I gratefully acknowledge the assistance of Rekha Menon, Health Economist, and Elaine Wee Ling Ooi, Water Supply and Sanitation
Specialist, in the preparation of this Intensive Learni ng Implementation Completion Report. I am also grateful to the Rural Water
Supply Group Staff based in the World Bank Office Jakarta for their logistic and technical assistance. Comments on an earlier draft
were received from Howard Barnum, Senior Economist and Project's Task Team Leader.
This ICR is mainly based on two field visits and the stakeholders' workshop, although it used extensively project documentation on file,
including various studies, and the Borrower's report which was thorough and comprehensive. Borrower's contribution is included as
Annex 10 to the report.



Project ID: P003990                                       Project Name: Indonesia - WSSLIC I
Team Leader: Howard Neich Barnum                          TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 7, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Indonesia - WSSLIC I                           LIC/TFNumber. CPL-36290;
SCL-3629A;
SCPD-3629S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/06/91                                Effective: 10/25/93            10/25/93
Appraisal:  12/11/92                                  MTR:                       03/12/96
Approval:  06/24/93                                Closing: 09/30/98             11/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/MOPW/MOH/MOHA
Other Partners: N/A
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      NA-pls edit Roles in SAP                  Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:   Enis Baris                               Ertugrul Pancaroglu
ICR Primary Author:   Enis Baris
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objectives were to provide safe, adequate, cost-effective, and easily accessible water
supply and sanitation services, and support hygiene and health education for poor communities in
underserved and unserved rural villages in the provinces of Southeast Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi,
North Sulawesi, Maluku and Nusa Tenggara Timur, and in communities around a few densely
populated districts in Central Java through sustainable and community-based arrangements.
Provision of WSS, supported by essential HSE, would improve the health status and productivity
of the poor communities.
Since late 1960s RWSS has been a high priority for GOI who, through its INPRES program for
WSS - a special programme directly funded by the President's Office - provided financial support
to local governments. In addition, several other agencies and NGO's like CARE Indonesia also
supported RWSS over the years. The reduction in INPRES funds and the shift of responsibility
for WSS from MOH to Cipta Karya/MOPW with the beginning of the fifth planning cycle
(Repelita V in April 1989) required a drastic change both in the way RWSS services were
provided and in the funding base. WSSLIC became the venue for the introduction of a more
multi-sectoral and programmatic approach in RWSS through Bank lending, which hitherto had
focused on urban water supply projects in Indonesia. Accordingly, the Bank had to build on its
international experience with RWSS elsewvhere while GOI had to find the appropriate mechanisms
for collaboration across several line ministries in times of change of technical responsibilities as
DG Cipta Karya/MOPW took over WSS in both urban and rural areas while MOH remained
responsible for community health and hyg,iene education, and MOHA for village development and
community participation. While project objectives were clear, there were obvious risks related to
lack of institutional capacity and coordination, especially given its multi-faceted approach.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
To accomplish this objective, the project mncluded two broad components: (i) direct infrastructure
development support, and (ii) institutiona] development and capacity building support, with
several subcomponents:
Component                                        Appraisal           Rating
A Direct Infrastructure Development
1. Water                                           60.6               HS
2. Sanitation                                       16.0               5
-2 -



B. Institutional Development and Building
1. Hygiene and Sanitation                            7.0                 S
2. Training and Community/Institutional              20.4                S
Development                                          10.2                 S
3. Technical Assistance                               9.1                S
4. Project Management
Total                                                123.3                S
The key features of the project design were (i) targeting of poor and underserved villages; (ii)
community participation; (iii) demand-driven interventions; (iv) cost-recovery; (v) programmatic
and structured learning approaches; (vi) human resource and institutional strengthening; and (vii)
use of non-governmental organizations. The project was designed to serve 2 million people in six
provinces.
The two project components and the sub-components together constituted a comprehensive and
valid approach, very much in line with the underlying theory regarding WSS as a major
determinant of health and productivity (Figure 1). Indeed, while water supply alone may benefit
communities in terms of time, energy and money saved, it would not be sufficient to improve
health without the complementary effect of effective sanitation, and changes in health and hygiene
behavior necessary to make effective use of the WSS infrastructure. In this sense, WSSLIC
included all the key ingredients, and devised the institutional framework accordingly for effective
implementation.
Figure 1
wSsiC
Underlying Theory
Water and
Sanitation
infrastructure    Improved access        Improved
-  to clean water and  _  health and
ffI            sanitation             productivity
Hygiene and
sanitation education
3.4 Revised Components:
While no changes have been made to project components, several activities were instituted as part
of the reprogramming subsequent to mid-term review. These included expansion of the hygiene
and sanitation education component, including the distribution of stimulant packages,
strengthening of the training activities both at the community and institutional levels, and increase
in the number of villages to be covered by the project. These revisions were meant to improve
- 3 -



project effectiveness in Batch IV and V villages, without necessarily amounting to a major
restructuring.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was, at the time of preparaticin, highly innovative in the way it combined water
supply and sanitation, and integrated HSI and community participation with water supply and
sanitation. In addition, institutional arrangements allowed for intersectoral collaboration,
involvement of the three levels of governance, and setting up village-level organizations for
decentralized operations and maintenance of the public works and for improved sustainability.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
At the time of project preparation, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) was perceived to
be a priority for poverty alleviation in rural Indonesia, and it still is. Indeed, the basic assumption
behind RWSS is that improved water quality and increased quantity, coupled with adequate
sanitation and changes in health and hygiene behavior, will bring about a decline in the incidence
of water-borne illness, and a gain in prod Lctivity by reducing the true cost of water both in time
and price. In addition, the project was expected to improve equity through increased affordability
and more pronounced reduction in illness among the poor (Figure 2).
Figure 2
WSsLIc
Expected outcomes                 Intended Health and
Productivity Benefits (*)
*Improved water quality               *Decline in disease
*Increased water quantity                incidence
*Adequate sanitation                  *Reduction in time
*Changes in health behavior           *Reduction in price
() Excluding impact on equity thanks to increased affordability
and more pronounced reduction in illness among the poorest
Overall, the achievement of objective ancL outputs is deemed satisfactory. The project has
undoubtedly increased access to water in rural Indonesia. However, the evidence regarding access
to adequate sanitation and changes in health behavior is less convincing. This is partly due to
lesser importance given to sanitation and changes in health behavior both by the implementing
agencies and beneficiaries, especially prior to reprogramming, but also because of the limited
baseline data, especially with regard to health behavior. The project has been successful in
targeting the poor, assuring community participation, demand responsiveness and cost-recovery,
and in promoting women's active involvement in expressing demand for water and managing the
resources. On the other hand, its achievements have been modest with regard to strengthening
government institutions and NGOs, and introducing programmatic and structured learning
approaches. Because of high degree of government commitment - a second project is being
- 4 -



negotiated at the time of this writing - and rural communities' enthusiastic buy-in for
self-management and community-based expansion, it is likely that the project outputs remain
sustainable. The latter, however, applies more to water supply than the other components (see
below).
Infrastructure Development
Water supply. The WSSLIC project has been able to bring water to more than 3 million people in
1,999 villages in six provinces, 38 districts and 390 sub-districts in Indonesia, or 41% more
coverage than originally planned. While no detailed estimation of a NPV or ERR was made,
achievement of outputs in terms of the water's safety, adequacy in availability and easy
accessibility is deemed highly satisfactory: (i) routine water examination confirmed that chemical
quality was acceptable in 98% of the samples and the bacteriological quality in about 60% of the
locations; (ii) despite variations across provinces, villages, and often across hamlets within
villages, water availability increased substantially; and finally (iii) almost invariably in all project
villages, water became much more easily accessible, cutting down considerably on time and
energy required to fetch water, especially in topographically challenging areas. On the other hand,
however, improved access resulted in higher demand due to increased and more varied water
usage and desire for private connections which have already started putting a strain on the
existing infrastructure as many villages have taken on themselves to expand the water supply and
distribution systems with various degrees of success, depending on whether they received piped
or non-piped systems, but also whether or not the initial infrastructure improvement has had
sufficient capacity to support the unplanned expansion. Although this is welcome and was
expected in principle, there is reason for concern with the integrity and effectiveness of the
infrastructure added on in an unplanned manner because of its potentially undermining effect on
the volume, pressure and quality of the water supply calculated as per VAP and DED
requirements.
Sanitation. Most sanitation specialists believe that (i) sanitation is likely to be more effective than
mere water supply in terms of prevention of water-borne diseases; and (ii) private sanitation
appears to be more effective than public sanitation because of users' preference for private
ownership. On the other hand, while the current thinking in the Bank leans towards WSS being a
public good, the jury is still out on whether sanitation is a public good, thus worthy of
subsidization, or a private good, thus to be better left to individuals whose awareness of its
importance in disease prevention could be heightened through HSE and social marketing. For
instance, GOI policy at project preparation required full payment of private latrines by
households, therefore limiting this component's scope to providing a stimulant package and social
marketing for hygiene education.
WSSLIC tried to overcome some of these obstacles through construction of public latrines for the
use of communities and schools, and its stimulant package for private latrine construction. The
project also made reference in its design to income generation through artisan training, although
there is no evidence that this actually occurred. Indeed, while WSSLIC included both water and
sanitation components, sanitation received relatively lesser emphasis during implementation. The
project constructed 1,759 public toilet/bathing facilities, 1,397 public and 639 school latrines, and
- 5 -



helped construction of some 20 thousand private family latrines. While the coverage is adequate in
terms of the number of villages, it falls short relative to the aggregate number of households.
Moreover, while households which have built or improved their own latrines (thanks to the
distribution of the stimulant package) may be maintaining and using them, public latrines and
those built in schools do not seem to be used regularly.
As for sullage disposal, the total number o f sirnple drainage gutters (SPALs) built by PU, or by
households themselves amount to some 5,1300 in total, well short of what would be needed
subsequent to considerable increase in water quantity. Finally, there is very little to show for in the
way of solid waste management. Field visits to project villages revealed ponds, drains and pits of
various size with stagnant water, often used for fish breeding, but also, unfortunately forming
breeding grounds for mosquitos.
Institutional Development and Capacity .Building
Hygiene and Sanitation Education. The project was successful in reaching out to all villages and
training local cadres and sanitarians. Several means were used, including school HSE packages.
However, the emphasis was more on sanitation infrastructure, rather than the content and training
methods and tools. The evidence regarding the effectiveness of the HSE component and its
overall impact on health is limited. One independent study did not find any difference in hygiene
and sanitation attitudes and behaviors between study and control villages. People did not seem to
have gained further from the education related to water issues as they already knew about
washing hands and boiling water. The overall perception is that WSSLIC is a WSS project with a
health component, rather than a health project with a WSS component. There is limited evidence
on the impact of training and HSE components in terms of the expected behavioral change since
the rationale for the inclusion of these components to what is mainly a water supply project was
not explained to the people in any greater detail. Although these components were reinforced
after Batch III with the addition of a stimulant package, the importance of having a latrine, a
gutter or a drainage system as part of the overall Hygiene and Sanitation strategy has not been
emphasized enough.
Intersectoral Collaboration. The institutional arrangements put in place favored and largely
succeeded in enhanced intersectoral coope:ration amongst govermnent officials at district and
provincial levels despite variations in performance and quality, although greater coordination
between the technical and non technical consultants was needed. However to what extent that
translated into effective collaboration is not clear as project staff who compose TKPs and TKKs
have kept their accountability for their work and performance vertically along sectoral lines. Time
commitment of TKP and TKK members to the project varied between 20% to 100%, depending
upon the sector they represent. This of course affected their commitment to the project and their
active participation in discussions and decision-making. Turnover among the members of TKP
and TKK was high despite various financial and career incentives. Few stayed for the whole
duration of the project. This may have affected the effectiveness of the teams, collaboration
among the three layers of project coordinalion teams, and overall project management. This is
especially true for pimpros who often had similar responsibilities for other on-going projects.



Several Executive Secretaries expressed their wish to keep TKPs and TKKs functional once the
project has ended. While, at present, there are no plans, nor mechanisms to do so, such
mechanisms are expected to be put in place with the advent of decentralization. While bupatis
could be getting valuable information on relevant sectors' work and therefore may be interested in
keeping them intact, the coordination teams do not necessarily contribute to the day-to-day work
of the various sectors involved.
Institutional/operational arrangements. It is very likely that community-based arrangements at
village level (water committees, user groups or UPS, etc.) would continue to function and support
project related activities after project completion, although they may need more training, if they
are expected to have a larger role in the post-construction phase of the project, particularly for
O&M and cost-recovery. Water committees and user groups can, with supervisory and technical
assistance from TKK, TKC and sanitarians, sustain project-initiated activities. Likewise,
additional (new) construction and HSE activities can be carried out with TKK/TKC/sanitarian
guidance and supervision. For new construction, however, it would be better if communities first
inform and solicit guidance from the sub and district levels, although with appropriate training
they should be able to supervise contractors' work.
Technical Assistance
Project Management. The WSSLIC project instituted numerous implementation arrangements for
project management. At the central level were the functional and technical committees, composed
of representatives of BAPPENAS and the three line ministries, and the Central Project
Secretariat. At the provincial, district and sub-district levels CPS had its counterpart in the
pimpros and the technical committee in coordination teams (TKP, TKK and TKC). The Central
Project Secretariat's role was limited to coordination between the Centre and lower levels, liaison
with the Bank and project administration without any decision power. As CFC's oversight waned
over the years, and CTC's involvement remained limited with the thrust towards further
decentralization, MOH became a key player at the Centre while Bupatis and PU had more control
in the periphery, with the consequent distortion in power relations across ministries and vertically
among the three layers of governance. This situation further complicated the institutional
arrangements, and monitoring and evaluation activities.
The Central Project Secretariat had little clout over their counterparts at provincial and district
levels in terms of data collection, reporting, or overall project oversight. The same applied to the
relationship between TKPs and TKKs. The latter reported quarterly to TKPs, but did not
necessarily get any feedback. For instance, TKKs had limited control or say over the selection and
performance review of consultants which fell under the authority of TKPs. Disbursements were
made to consultants by provincial authorities without double-checking with the district personnel
whether or not the work had been completed to the satisfaction of TKKs, pimpros and indeed
villagers. Quality of supervision of the contractors and consultants varied, but that could not be
helped with the existing shortage of manpower and resources at the district level. Physical
construction of water works was generally inspected and approved by district officials before
payments were made. Quality of work of non-technical consultants was more difficult to assess or
supervise at the district level which had to rely more on their monitoring by the various village
-7 -



committees. Districts felt somewhat overwhelmed with the expectations on them, and hoped the
local committees/groups formed could take on, with better training, more responsibilities after
project completion.
Cross-cufting issues
Gender. The emphasis put on the role of women as the main beneficiary increased the profile of
women and their role and capability in managing water resources. Many project villages included
women's opinions in VAP preparation and design. Decision-making by village women on
substantive matters has seen some progress, and is expected to increase, although, at present they
are mostly relegated to more functional and traditional roles, such as collecting user fees and
promoting HSE. Some of these positions are now receiving financial compensation at the village
level. However, they are still largely involved in the soft non-technical areas of HSE and WID,
traditional areas assigned to women, while water committees continue to be dominated by male
members. Nevertheless gender issues need greater emphasis, and there should be greater
acknowledgment of women's contributions.
Use of NGOs. While many NGOs of small and medium size were involved as independent
consultants or contractors, their active participation in project design and implementation as
stake-holders and part of the civil society appears to be limited. There is little evidence of NGO
involvement in community development, preparation of VAPs, training, and hygiene and
sanitation education of women, except for a few sub-contracts in relation to very specific
activities. This may partly be due to different interpretations of what constitutes an NGO by the
sectors involved and the Bank. Indeed, there are very few NGOs operating at the grassroots level
to collaborate with on RWSS and HSE.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project achieved substantial improvements in terms of its physical objectives, particularly with
regard to improved access to water in rural communities. Its impact on sectoral policies, however,
has been modest at best. There has not been an explicit policy change in the health sector in the
way of collaboration with other line ministries, except for a number of decrees of more
operational nature. The same rating would apply to institutional development given the lack of
provisions for sustaining the institutional arrangements, although some may continue in different
shapes and forms with the upcoming second phase project, albeit in totally different provinces.
Finally, WSSLIC was not expected to andi did not bring about any changes in terms of macro
policies, and financial and environmental objectives.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return was not estimnated for the WSSLIC project at the time of appraisal,
nor was it calculated after its closure.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has undoubtedly improved GTOI's ability to design and implement multi-sectoral
-8 -



projects. The institutional arrangements put in place in central, provincial and district levels were
in many ways innovative and facilitated inter-agency coordination. While there are no formal plans
to institutionalize TKKs and TKPs as they were constituted, some may remain operational in
similar forms to build on what has been achieved through this project. It would be unfortunate if
they did not since WSSLIC was innovative in the way it put MOH in the driving seat, an
uncommon occurrence in WSS projects.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic crisis of 1997 and the subsequent political turmoil affected project implementation
in several ways. On one hand the crisis hampered all government activities and caused delays in
implementation and disbursements, thus the reason for later-than-projected project closure. On
the other hand, the rapid depreciation of Rupiah against US Dollar brought down unit costs in
dollar terms, and resulted in substantial savings which allowed for the expansion of project
coverage to more villages than originally planned. Despite increased coverage, however, a
subsequent loan amendment was deemed necessary, and US$ 31 million were cancelled as part of
Portfolio restructuring.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Two factors within government control affected the project: (i) selection of villages; and (ii)
limited dialogue between line ministries involved in the project and Ministry of Finance.
Selection of Villages. There is evidence that the seven selection criteria in SAR (poverty,
incidence of water-borne diseases, water scarcity, water quality, infant mortality, existence of
planned/ongoing projects and willingness to pay for O&M costs) were not uniformly used across
all provinces and districts. The proportion of the villages selected in each province and further
down in kapubatens varies, and there does not seem to be a major difference in terms of poverty
between the project villages and non-project villages. In fact most so-called poor villages were
able to raise extra funds for household connections and/or expansion. Indeed the final selection
was at variance with the original list on the basis of which provinces had gotten their budget.
Furthermore, when asked to detail the selection process and provide evidence on the final ranking
and the algorithm followed, most TKKs gave either vague or conflicting explanations, nor could
they document the process. While a few villages may have benefited from favoritism, there is little
evidence that social and political considerations played a major role in village selection. Rather,
factors like timely collection of commitment fees, delays in preparing VAPs, pre-selection of
districts, and use of different methodologies to assess poverty may have played a bigger role in the
final selection. The overall impact of the lack of full compliance with the selection criteria may
not be substantial enough to affect overall effectiveness. The issue of village selection is by its
nature a politically sensitive one, and there were even variances within villages with some dusuns
benefitting more than others, by virtue of being more vocal, better informed and better connected.
The other factor was related to Ministry of Finance's lack of compliance with the Bank's requests
for repayment of funds to special account and clarification of the questions raised by the BPKP
audit. Non-compliance forced the project to close prematurely, and left various activities
uncompleted, namely (i) transfer of ownership of completed facilities to village LKMDs; (ii)
-9-



rehabilitation of non-functioning WSS systems (iii) distribution of stimulant packages to Batch V
villages; and (iv) strengthening post-project activities, not to mention ICR preparation. Several
factors may have played a role in MOF's non-compliance, such as presidential election in Fall
1999 and the subsequent change in government. But the main reasons appear to be the nonchalant
attitude by MOF officials in times of political transition despite continuous pleading for action by
CPS, and lack of competence and skills of the newcomers in handling Bank projects. Indeed,
WSSLIC was not the only project which suffered from inertia and delays in disbursements.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In large-scale development projects, it is nat uncommon to have variations in project
implementation, and therefore in effectiveness even in case of full coverage and accurate targeting
of the poor (Figure 3). Variations in the quality of services delivered across project sites is often
the main factor behind the discrepancy between the intended and observed effects. In its turn,
quality assurance is dependent on various factors, namely availability and appropriateness of
human and financial resources, and the institutional arrangements put in place for project
implementation. In the case of WSSLIC, the main factors which hindered the project was the
variation in quality assurance and control. Several issues appear to have compromised the quality
of the infrastructure: (i) onset of construction before finalizing VAPs and DEDs; (ii) limited use,
or ad hoc modification of VAPs or DEDs to accommodate last-minute requests by communities;
(iii) construction without VAP and/or DEE) in Batch V villages; (iv) limited supervision of
constructors' work by PU and consultants, or limited training, thus skill acquisition by PU
personnel at the kabupaten level for effective supervision; (v) tight budget ceilings which may
have forced the constructors/villagers to opt for cheaper products of mediocre quality; and (vi)
limited reliance on villagers and puskesmas/posyandu personnel/sanitarians for supervision.
Figure 3
WBSSU
Determinants of Project Effectiveness      Intended effects
*Theoretical efficacy re WSS
*Variations in implementation         -proved quality
across provinces/villages          I m     e    a
*Coverage                          -I ricreased quantity
*Quality (compliance with design   *Adequate sanitation
and technical specifications)      *Changes in health behavior
*Accuracy in village selection (re  _
poverty and need)
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Significant cost changes occurred during tie course of the project, as explained above, as a result
of the depreciation of Indonesian Rupiah against US Dollar - the exchange rate at closure having
been three times that at inception, with wide variations in between - especially during the
economic crisis. Consequently, coverage vwas expanded to an additional 612 villages, including
rehabilitation work in some with existing water supply facilities. On the other hand, government
- 10 -



counterpart funds were delayed and remained short of the estimates at appraisal, while US$ 31
million out of the US$ 80 million loan got cancelled. At the end, the project closed 14 months
later than planned, and rather abruptly because of the reasons explained above.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is very likely that project achievements will be maintained given the high degree of enthusiasm
and ownership that it has generated. However, this should not mean that district and sub-district
teams should or could disengage themselves from future responsibilities regarding further training
and O&M. While the sustainability of the project depends to a large extent on future performance
of UPSs, they are likely to need assistance, especially of financial type, should there be a need for
major repair work. While UPSs are setup in all villages, their degree of functionality and
effectiveness vary. Some UPSs have their full staffing selected through an open process while
others simply assigned specific tasks to a few without much training and motivation. Most UPS
members are not compensated for their work, except maybe for a few technical cadres. There
seems to be few incentives in place for the members to stay on and perform their duties
effectively. It is understandable that Batch V villages may need more time to make their UPSs
fully functional. While many TKK members think that the water systems are sustainable because it
is cheaper/easier now than it used to be, long-term sustainability remains doubtful. This may be
more of an issue in villages with piped systems. This is because of inadequate H&SE and O&M
training and frequent turnover due to lack of incentives and motivation, and the need for
retraining that this discontinuity may cause. This may be all the more important because of the
multiplicity of village-level projects, each with its own team or committee. Ultimately some
consolidation, or at least better coordination among LKMD, UPS, PKK, WID and local NGOs
will be required.
Sanitation and HSE did not seem to have received the same degree of support and enthusiasm.
With the exception of Maluku and South East Sulawesi (which were able to optimize and build
from long standing sanitation programs in the area by UNICEF, CARE and other NGOs),
promotion of sanitation and good hygiene practices under WSSLIC had not been systematic
enough nor well tailored to the needs of the communities. These exceptional areas which had
prioritized sanitation and HSE, achieved good outcome in behavior change and close to 90%
latrine coverage. For the majority of sites, sanitation and HSE promotion was mediocre during
project cycle. Schools had been mobilized towards the later part of the project and have shown
promising results, although most villagers expect the assistance of sanitarians and/or
puskesmas/posyandu for the promotion/continuation of sanitation and HSE activities after project
completion. These institutions/resources had largely remained outside the project ambit, and had
not been closely integrated/coordinated with WSSLIC activities. Clearly, at village level there
were no plans to retain the village sanitation worker after project closes, while the water
committees and water user groups will remain functional indefinitely.
In general, the degree of satisfaction with the types of water and sanitation systems installed and
promoted by the project remains high. They are considered to be low cost, easily maintained yet
durable and sustainable, although some fear that the project is not amenable to accommodating
the use of local technology and materials. Operation and maintenance remain a concern for many,
- 1 1 -



especially should there be a need for major repairs above and beyond the financial and technical
capabilities of the communities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While the project design had foreseen transfer of ownership of all WSS facilities to the villages,
the process was halted because of untimely closure of the project. However, there is reason to
believe that they will eventually be transferred, although not necessarily with appropriate
provisions to ensure effective operations and maintenance by LKMDs, especially in Batch V
villages. It is quite likely that some degree of confusion may arise over PUs and LKMDs
respective authority and responsibilities over O&M.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was highly
satisfactory. Project design, while innovative because of the way it brought together various
sectors and focused on health as the main outcome instead of simple water availability, took into
consideration the development strategy of the Government of Indonesia as well as Bank's
assistance strategy. The project was prepared by a competent team with the adequate skill mix.
High quality background work, rigorous technical and financial analysis, and realistic assessment
of country's capabilities and inherent risks are some of the major strengths of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance with regard to supervision was satisfactory. Despite a change in task
management, continuity in supervision was maintained. Supervision relied heavily on staff based in
the field and with a good knowledge of Indonesian institutions and the required skills and
competence. The task managers made extensive field visits to all provinces, several districts and
numerous villages to oversee and monitor project implementation. On the other hand, the
Borrower is of the opinion that a better explanation of the purpose of supervision visits, except
for the obvious financial auditing and review of contracts, the rationale behind their frequency and
scope, and the key technical areas of most concern would have improved the dialogue between
the Bank and the CPS, and helped both sides to better understand the circunstances under which
they were operating. For instance, the CPS believes that the Bank could have used its clout to
force MOF to comply with its own regulations, and thus could possibly have prevented premature
closure of the project. Project management in the Bank contends that the efforts in this respect
were substantial, but to no avail.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank, from project preparation to supervision and closure, was
satisfactory. This project received close attention from both HQ and resident mission throughout,
and benefitted from in-house expertise in wvater and sanitation located in the resident mission
(RWSG/EAP). The appraisal of government's commitment, the capacity of the implementing
agency and the assessment of the demand responsiveness of potential beneficiaries proved to be
correct and realistic, barring the effect of the economic crisis which was largely beyond
govermnent's and the implementing agencies' control.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactory. The project was carefully prepared with due attention to the respective roles
and responsibilities of all government agencies and their field offices. Project design was quite
realistic and in tune with GOI institutional make-up and sectoral policies. The fact that the
Government also funded the start-up batch even before project funds became available was
testimony to its commitment during project preparation and start-up. On the other hand and in
retrospect, the design could have overestimated the capacity of various line ministries, especially
MOPWs field capacity, and underestimated the potential of villagers for acquiring new skills and
competence, and their desire for active participation in affairs of critical importance to their
welfare.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The government was committed to the project, funded entirely the start-up batch,
mobilized sufficient resources for proper project implementation, and passed various decrees and
regulations which made it possible to build the institutional arrangements. Despite some arrears at
the beginning, GOI largely complied with counterpart requirements.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Despite some changes of staff, CPS has been properly staffed and had easy access to
government officials, especially in the MOH and Bappenas. However, while CTC remained
involved, CFC's role and involvement became less apparent, especially toward the end. At the
periphery, in all project provinces and districts the coordination teams were in place and
operational. Overall the project had good visibility and benefitted from involvement of many
international and national experts in WSS and health in the way of monitoring and evaluation and
operational research. However, various problems were encountered with regard to procurement,
accounting and auditing and periodic reporting. Covenant compliance was satisfactory, although
the issue of reimbursement of funds to the Special Account as per BPKP audit remained unsolved
at project closing. The government has subsequently reimbursed funds for ineligible expenditures,
and has signed an affidavit affirming that they will resolve outstanding BPKP audit issues and
gave a timetable for doing this.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the project received adequate political support at the highest level, and the
means for uninterrupted implementation. All necessary institutional and managerial arrangements
were put in place and contractual requirements were met, but more importantly perhaps there was
strong buy-in by all stakeholders, especially communities which may explain higher than intended
coverage in water supply.
8. Lessons Learned
They could be regrouped under three categories: (i) underlying theory and assumptions; (ii)
project design; and (iii) project implementation.
Theory and assumptions. While the underlying theory is sound, it is important to bear in mind
that other factors such as lifestyle, environment and healthcare have a bearing on the morbidity
- 13 -



and mortality related to water-borne illnesses and therefore on health and poverty. In addition,
while improved access to water and sanitation is necessary, it is seldom sufficient if users do not
acquire the necessary skills, and change their behavior and hygienic practices. Finally, as Figure 4
below shows, it is not easy to measure the relative role of determinants of health, and distinguish
or isolate the singular role of water supply, or sanitation for that matter, on diarrheal disease
incidence or mortality, unless carefully designed studies are conducted before, during and after
project implementation.
Figure 4
A Conceptual Model fir WSS Projects
Water and
Sanitation
infrastructure
Hygiene and
sanitation education   Improved access           Improved
to clean water and   _   health and
I                sanitation               productivity
OTHER FACTORS
-Lifestyle, behavior
-Healthcare
-Environment
The reasoning behind most WSS projects is that water is a public good with impact on health,
quality of living and productivity, whereas sanitation is considered as a private good, especially in
rural areas. The main implication of this line of reasoning, though not necessarily explicitly spelled
out, is that while water supply should be subsidized, or requires direct public intervention,
sanitation is mostly a matter of personal decision which does not require inducement or
incentives. This particular project has been able to challenge this conjecture by integrating
sanitation with water supply, not only in name but also in action by the inclusion of a HSE
component, and later on, by introducing the so-called "stimulant" package to entice households
for constructing their own latrines. However, this very strength proved to be Project's Achilles'
heel as it has not been able to raise awareness to a level which would have brought about uptake
and buy-in by both district officials, and vil]ages or communities.
Project design. The main lesson that GOI and the Bank should draw from this project is that
future projects of similar nature should either rely less on the capabilities of line ministry staff at
the district and sub-district levels, or package incentives (financial and/or career advancement)
with proper training. In addition, WSSLIC also proved that the communities can be relied upon in
matters of direct concern to their welfare, especially after proper training and with technical
support and guidance, though their competence in technical aspects is likely to remain limited.
These include involvement in project design, construction, and quality assurance and control in
WSS projects using simple schemes. Local governments are bound to play a role in oversight and
supervision over the work of private contractors, consultants and NGOs as principal players in
- 14 -



ensuring achievement and integrity of development objectives for rural WSS. On the other hand,
communities' ability in organization, self-help and financial accountability is likely to improve
substantially upon acquisition of the required skills.
Another lesson is the importance of having one centre of responsibility and accountability in
channelling project funds and cost accounting, instead of using several parallel channels for funds
allocation. This is especially important in countries like Indonesia where inter-ministerial or
inter-agency coordination remains unsatisfactory for political or technical reasons. On the other
hand, service delivery could be decentralized further to district and sub-district levels after
building the necessary capacity.
The importance of having a reliable and timely data collection system cannot be overemphasized.
WSSLIC relied to a large extent on cross-sectional studies and consultants' reports for data on
infrastructure, changes in health behavior and health status. While this is necessary and indeed
desirable to get an impartial and distanced evaluation of project implementation, such measures
rarely lend themselves to day-to-day or hands-on operation and making corrective changes before
it is too late. In addition, studies are often designed and conducted by different groups of
consultants, and they vary in their purpose, objective and methodologies, hindering therefore
before-after or inter-agency, inter-provincial comparability.
A single vision and more effective coordination and integration are needed at the village level
among multiple projects often with different mechanisms, institutional arrangements and
incongruent practices, at least from the villagers' standpoint. For instance, it is not uncommon to
come across a project which provides financial support to villagers and another one like WSSLIC
expecting them to contribute in-cash and in-kind.
As a WSS project under the auspices of health, WSSLIC was expected to forge greater linkages
between highly relevant grass-root level health promotional activities and planned WSS
infrastructure. Some key elements of diarrheal disease management/control and
breast-feeding/nutrition could have been included, either directly in its HSP, or collaboratively
with existing health services, to bring about additional improvement in high risk behavior.
Project implementation.
Selection of villages. It is not always feasible to select project villages on the basis of objective
criteria alone; some flexibility should be retained to accommodate political and social
considerations. As to future projects of similar nature, it is advisable to factor in the role and
importance of considering political, logistic and other criteria, in addition to objective criteria.
Transparency during the selection process is another key factor for buy-in by villages.
Quality assurance and control.
Most communities are interested in, or have already initiated, other schemes to extend or improve
on what was built by the project. There is a need, therefore, for increased flexibility regarding
design options and criteria, including VAPs, and financing to allow for household connections.
- 15 -



This is also true for accommodating varying preferences across cornmunities and future demands
for household connections, and the subsequent modifications in the upstream infrastructure.
Flexibility is also required with the technical requirements, and purchase and use of better quality
hardware for longer econonic life and subsequent extensions. More flexibility with technical
aspects, however, would require that physical infrastructure put in place initially be of adequate
capacity and physical quality to support projected demand expansion.
As for the non-technical issues, mechanisrns should be built in to monitor and evaluate to what
extent the guiding principles included in project design such as the roles of NGOs and women are
indeed taken into consideration and acted upon during implementation. The same applies to
training and emnpowerment of kabupaten cadres, especially PU, and sanitarians for more effective
supervision of the WSS construction. The project does not seem to have built capacity in this
aspect for future projects of similar nature or extensions because of its heavy reliance on
consultants for supervision.
Substantially additional support will be needed to increase sanitation coverage. This may involve
review of existing latrine designs and some continuity with stimulant packages for more private
latrine construction, but also increased emphasis on the sanitation education component as an
integral part of the project.
Institutional arrangements.
The role of the CPS and its relationship with the central, provincial and district coordination
committees and teams need to be clearly spelled out to facilitate its responsibility and
accountability vis-a-vis overall project oversight and reporting. CPS should be more than a mere
coordinating body with some executive authority, albeit mediated through a steering committee,
over lower level implementing agencies. The extent of its responsibilities should match and be
congruent with that of its authority. While CPS could retain the functions of oversight and
management, the responsibility for project planning and implementation, and the allocation of
funds may be devolved from provinces to districts and sub-districts, especially now that
decentralization has become the law of the land. In this respect, TKPs could play more of an
advisory and supportive role. One concrete area for TKPs to play this role would be ensuring
better coordination in the field between technical and non-technical consultants so that villagers
could receive HSE messages in a more comprehensive and consistent fashion.
Considerable savings could be achieved if construction with low skill requirements were left to
villagers. When provided with the opportunity and adequate technical support, villagers are
capable of deciding for themselves what is best for them in terms of water supply. They have also
proven their capability to pay the 4 percent counterpart funds, a sure sign of their commitment
and their ability to manage funds for O&M. However, financial incentives and proper technical
guidance may have to be added on in order for them to do the same for sanitation. In this respect,
community participation should be secured throughout the design and implementation stages in
both WSS and HSE.
- 16 -



There is a need to strike a balance between setting up some clear rules to limit cost overruns due
to excessive variations in design and implementation and the need for flexibility, better quality
work and future expansion. The cash contribution and village involvement in planning and
execution and less reliance on contractors would help provide appropriate incentives to keep
village projects at a reasonable size. The swakelola, or force account, experience in the latter
batches of WSSLIC is one way of achieving the appropriate balance which could be replicated in
future projects. In all this, there is more room for UPS teams to organize themselves and set their
own rules and incentive mechanisms for staff as these issues are crucial for long-term
effectiveness and sustainability. Increased participation of NGOs and beneficiaries, namely
women, in both project design and implementation, through the UPS, or LKMD and WID are
other preferable options for long-term sustainability.
Finally it is crucial to assess realistically the capabilities of villagers to get and remain involved in
various and concurrent development projects with various schemes and community arrangements.
Better coordination of various projects at the village level would reduce overlaps, minimize
creation of numerous local councils, and thus ease the burden of involvement on the communities.
After all, their enthusiasm for bettering their lives should be tempered with a sound understanding
of their limitations, and with a respect for their day-to-day struggle to make a decent living.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 10.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
I1, V= jN
Water supply facilities
Population served                                       2.000,000             3,134,302
Villages served                                            1414                  2026
Sanitation facilities
Population covered                                      1,700,000             3,134,302
Villages served                                            1414                  2026
Type of Water Supply facilities
1. Dug wells                                              8,951                 8,197
2. Dug wells with pumps                                    548                   374
3. Piped system with public taps                           878                   5381
4. Piped system with hydrants                                                    3958
5. Piped system with public tanks                                                504
6. Piped system with house connections                                           3152
7. Spring protection                                       165                   150
8. Rain water cachtment                                   2,027                 1,800
Type of Hygiene & Sanitation facilities
1. Family latrines                                        13,620                19,617
2. Public latrines                                        1,359                 1,397
3. School latrines                                         763                   639
4. MCK( Bathing, washing and latrine)                     2,013                 1,759
5. Stimulant packages                                     32,092                54,216
5. Wastewater drainage                                    4,429                 4,168
Community Participation
1. Village action plans prepared (accorded)               1414               2220 (2026)
2. Contributions
a. In Cash ( in Rp)                                 4,008,275,536.00      3,532,200,755.00
b. In kind (materials and labors in Rp)            15,935,684,659.00     12,103,149,882.00
3. Village Water Committees Established                    1414                  2026
Technical Assistance
1. Topical studies                                                                6
2. Local training participants *)                         99,485               248,082
3. Technical Service Groups (Technical Adviser)             16                    22
4. Technical Service Grouped (Project Management
Adviser)                                                    12                    22
5. Other technical consultants                             17                     14
-18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Loan Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
SCv ..... --  s.           '..                            ->g                   .
Appraisal estimate                  6.0       20.0      40.0      60.0      76.0       80.0       0.0
Revised (1996)                      3.2       14.4      24.8      40.0       54.4      62.1       69.0
Actual                              2.0        5.6      21.1      32.7       42.2      44.3       45.1
Actual as % of revised estimate    62.5       38.9      85.1      81.8       77.6      71.3       65.4
Date of final disbursement March 31,2000
* August 26,1998, cancelled US$ 11.0 million
December 13,1999, cancelled US$ 20.0 million
Project Costs and Financing by Disbursement Categories (US$ million) - Loan amount
Civil Works and Construction Materials    35.8              41.9              36.1             22.0
Equipment                                  1.4              2.2                1.9              1.9
Educational Materials                      1.4              1.7                1.5              0.6
Consultant Services                       22.5              18.7              16.2             13.9
Training                                   6.4              9.2                7.9              4.3
Local Travel, Allowances for Project Staff
and Consumables                           4.6               6.3                5.4              2A
Undisbursed                               7.9                                                   3.9
Loan amount cancelled                                                          11.o            31.0
Total                                    80.0             800.0
* World Bank disbursement tables
Proect Costs and Financing b  Financiers
Investment
IBRD                   US$ 80 million           US$ 45.1 million
Govemment                Rp.120,26 billion         Rp. 102,79 billion
-19-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic rate of return was not estimated for the WSSLIC project at the time of appraisal nor was it
calculated after its closure.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty           Perform nce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation   Development
MonthYear    Count       Specialty                     Progress         Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
06/91                       8   RW (3), E, 0 (2), CD, F
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 01/93             9   RW (3), E, 0 (2), CD, F
Negotiations 05/93          7   RW (2), E, 0 (2), DO, L
Supervision
10/18/93 - 11/13/93         6  E, RW (2) 0, O/PH, CD               S                S
06/11/94 - 06/25/94          3  E, O/PH, HE/CD                    HS                S
04/02/95 - 04/13/95         4  E, O/PH, RW, HE/CD                 HS                S
06/25/95 - 06/27/95          4  E, RW, HE, O/PH                   HS                S
11/9/95 - 11/12/95          6  E (2), O/PH, RW (2), HE             S                S
01/22/96 - 01/27/96          1  0
04/04/96 - 04/24/96         5  E, O/PH, HE, RW (2)                 U                S
10/28/96 - 11/14/96         4  E, O/PH, HE, RW                     S                S
07/11/97 - 07/22/97         4  E, O/PH, RW (2)                     S                S
03/20/98 - 04/08/98         4  E, RW (2), O/PH                     S                S
09/16/98 - 9/29/98          5  E, RW(2), HE                        S                S
03/10/99 - 03/23/99         5  E, RW(2), HE, O/PH                 U                 S
07/12/99 - 07/30/99         4  E, RW (2), O/PH                     S                S
ICR
11/01/99 - 11/17/99         3   PH, RW, 0
02/28/00 - 03/09/00         3   PH, RW, E
Specialist skills                                                        Performance ratings:
E = Economist                                                            HS=Highly Satisfactory
RW = Rural Water Specialist                                              S=Satisfactory
0 = Operations Officer/Procurement Specialist                            U=Unsatisfactory
PH = Public Health Specialist                                            HU=Highly Unsatisfactory
HE = Health Education Specialist
CD =Community Development Specialist
F = Financial Analyst
L = Legal Counsel
DO = Disburement Officer
- 21 -



(b) Staff.
Stage ofProject Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
____________A:_______    :::00000 No. Staff weeks                  US$(,OOO)
Identification/Preparation                 136.6                         430.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                       57.8                          198.7
Supervision                                202.3                         532.2
ICR
Total                                      396.7                        1161.3
* Supervision includes ICR
** Cost only includes Bank budget used for preparatior and implementation
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
FPoverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
ZGender                            OH OSUOM ON ONA
0 Other (Please specify)
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)
-23 -



Status of Le al Covenants
Loan       Schedule 1, para. 3 (i)        5         C      Signing of contract with three key
consultants.
Loan       Schedule 1, para. 3 (ii)      10         C      Hiring of qualified NGOs for the
starter areas.
Loan       Schedule 4, Section 11 (1)    10         C      Hiring of consultants, other than
the three key consultants listed
above.
Loan       Schedule 5, para. 10          10.        C      Fumish an action plan to the
Bank for providing training in
project implementation to women
by February 28, 1994.
Loan       Schedule 5, para. 11          12         C      Furnish a transfer of
responsibility action plan for the
construction of large and
medium sized piped water supply
systems from provincial to
kabupaten level to the Bank by
January 1,1994.
Loan       Schedule 5, para. 16           9         C      Carry out a review of the
implementation of the project in
the 52 initial participating
villages.
Loan       Schedule 5, para. 17           9         C      Carry out a mid-term review.
Loan       Schedule 5, para. 3            3         C      Fumish a budget ceiling
schedule to the Bank for the
construction of water supply
schemes in the participating
villages under Part A of the
project by February 28 of each
project year commencing
________  ___ __ ___ ___ _ _ _  _February 28,  1994.
C = Covenant compiled with.
Covenant Class
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatoryjinstitutional action
13 Other
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
OI Overall                                            OHS OS  C U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
B Implementation agency performance                   O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS   OU   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Borrower's Report of WSSLIC for the Period: FY 1993/1994 FY 1999/2000
2. Report on Stakeholders' Workshop, Indonesia WSSLIC I, Jogyakarta, March 3-4, 2000-Elaine
(Wee Ling) Ooi
3. Transcripts of the Stakeholders' Workshop, March 3-4, 2000
4. Health, Sanitation and Hygiene in Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Projects and Other
World Bank-Financed Projects-Rita Klees, Joana Godinho, Mercy Lawson-Doe, October 1999
5. Responding to Demand: Two Approaches from Indonesia-Gillian M. Brown, Richard W.
Pollard
6. Making Rural Water Supply Sustainable: Recommendations from a Global Study-Travis Katz,
Jennifer Sara, December 1977
7. Final Technical Report Water Quality Monitoring-Dr. Don Sharp, May 15, 1997
8. Final Report on the Evaluation of the Community-Based Water Quality Monitoring (WQM)
Project in Sulawesi-Prof. Dr. Juli Soemirat Slamet, MPH, Ph.D. and Ir. Samilan, SKM, Displ.
SE, October 1998
9. Myth vs. Reality In Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion-Nilanjana Mukherjee, March 2000
10. "Is it Selling Toilets?" "No, A Lifestyle."-Nilanjana Mukherjee and Ratna I. Josodipoero,
March 2000
11. Aide-Memoire for the Wrap-up meeting of WSSLIC ICR Mission, February 28-March 10,
2000
12. Aide-Memoire for WSSLIC ICR Mission, November 1-17, 1999
13. Health Impact Study: Discussion Paper (Final Report)-Carol B. Hetler, Ph.D., June 1999
14. Recent Results in Health, Nutrition, and Population Synthesis of Results and Lessons
Learned based on FY98 HNP Implementation Completion Reports-Human Development
Network HNP Quality Group, July I5199
15. Report on Stakeholders' Workshop, Indonesia-WSSLIC I, Yogyakarta, March 2-4-Faisal
Djalal
16. Loan Agreement for WSSLIC I between the Republic of Indonesia and International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, August 12, 1993
17. WSSLIC Project Reprogramming Proposal (Final Revision: December 31, 1996)
18. Final Report Technical Audit of the International Technical Consultant for the Central
Executing Secretariat WSSLIC (IBRI) Loan 3629-IND)-PT IWIN Indopersada
19. Final Report Mid-Term Review of WSSLIC-Ministry of Health, Directorate General of
Communicable Diseases Control and E]nvironmental Health in cooperation with PT.
ARTAMA-LP3ES
- 26 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was carried out for the following reasons: (i) several field surveys were
carried out during implementation to measure health impact and changes in beneficiaries' health
behavior; (ii) Stakeholders' workshop provided ample opportunity for beneficiaries to express
their views, and to comment on project implementation and effectiveness; and (iii) there were
limited funds to conduct both a workshop and a survey.
- 27 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Stakebholders Workshop
Water Supply and Sanitation for l.ow-income Communities (WSSLIC) Project
The workshop was held in Yogyakarta on March 3 and 4. A total of 57 participants including
representatives from different sectors of all the three levels of government from six WSSLIC
provinces in Sulawesi, NTT and Java, villagers and NGOs attended the workshop. The workshop
intended to elicit the views of the end users, especially village women, whom were the primary
beneficiaries of the project. Lessons drawn from the workshop were meant to supplement other
infornation already gathered by the ICR mission.
The workshop utilized a participatory approach. This methodology is especially successful in
drawing out the views of villagers, and enables the different tiers of service providers and
recipients to understand one another's constraints and aspirations. In addition to assessing
stakeholders' perception of project accomplishments with respect to quality and quantity of WSS
services, equity in coverage and affordability, considerable time was devoted to discussing the
sustainability of activities and institutions set up by the project. Groups were broken up into a)
villagers and sub-district service providers; b) district level government service providers and
NGOs; and c) provincial and central level government. The following is a brief summary of the
workshop results. A. full text is on file.
From the perspective of the ultimate project beneficiaries, the project had brought vast benefits.
Nonetheless, they were essentially intereste(I only with the water component of the project and in
exploiting all possible avenues to (i) ensure self (community) management of existing water
supplies; and (ii) develop their own technical ability to harness and construct new water systems,
with little dependence on outsiders. Other strategic project services, sanitation and health &
hygiene education and promotion were of liltle interest to most villagers. Achievements in these
"secondary" services were therefore perceived to be already high and satisfactory, likewise with
their assessment of the consultants engaged in promoting these services. Contractors involved in
the construction of water works however received greater scrutiny and lower ratings. Villagers
appreciated the practical skills and knowledge acquired from project training related to
institutional/community organization, water quality, health education, and construction of
facilities. Training was perceived to be good quality, but too short, one off and should have been
more practice- than theory- oriented.
District officials were preoccupied with "immediate execution" and the need to achieve as high a
coverage as possible. Driven by the need and urgency to deliver (usually quantifiable hardware
outputs), they have been less able to address quality control issues, or monitoring and evaluation
of the service delivery mechanism. District budgets also do not lend themselves to adequate
supervision of public works. Districts have instead focused attention on the quality of Operations
& Maintenance (O&M) of constructed physical works, at the ultimate beneficiary level. Given
their concerns about O&M, and given the village level preoccupation with technical construction,
quality technical training of local masons/a-tisans is needed, and conducted in a more
systematic way. Non-hardware elements of the project did not receive much attention and Women
In Development (WID) and HSE achievements were judged as satisfactory, by the districts.
- 28 -



Central /Provincial officials, further removed from the urgency of implementation, concerned
themselves with maintaining overall project integrity, and how achievement of stated objectives
and services, including the less popular sanitation and HSE, could be improved. This group also
paid greater attention to non hardware elements of WID and Gender.
There was little opportunity at the Workshop to judge project achievement in HSE. With the
exception of 1-2 districts where the NGO contractors had effectively tailored their HSE
interventions to local needs, aspirations and constraints, most village and district groups
demonstrated little knowledge of and interest in HSE. Original project design had planned for a
good comprehensive HSE intervention. However, much of the health and hygiene education
carried out were generic in nature and centered around water issues, with little targeted at specific
high risk behaviors on the handling and containment of feces.
The end users were unilaterally positive about the project, even when probed about the large
discrepancy in achievements in sanitation versus water supply coverage. They were positive
about the active role they were able to play in the project as co - implementers and to a lesser
degree, as "influencers" . The element of community empowerment appears to have succeeded
and the villagers expressed their desire for greater empowerment through acquisition of more
knowledge and skills in the operationalization of WSS activities.
Monitoring and supervision related to quality of services received a moderate rating by the
villagers, and the degree of responsiveness to problems by the district during implementation
needed to be improved. There is a general feeling among all groups that institutional and
operational arrangements could be improved, especially at the district level.
All groups were quite positive about the viability and sustainability of the demand-responsive
approach used in the project, despite the requirement of 4% cash contribution for water and 100
% contribution for sanitation, with the exception of stimulants. It was also clear, however, that
all three groups prioritized water over sanitation, expecting sanitation to pick up without much
sponsorship.
Sustainability. The common denominator which heavily influences sustainability of the project
activities, from the workshop and field visits, is the quality of supervision of implementation, and
the institutional/operational arrangements which support it. From the standpoint of technical
quality assurance, the district level plays a key role yet has demonstrated the weakest capacity to
do so within the current structure, due to lack of incentives. In order to sustain the
activities/momentum already achieved, a certain level of resources and manpower has to be
allocated at the district level.
- 29 -



Workshop Agenda
Friday March 3,2000
08:30 Opening / Statement of Objectives
10:00 Description of "Participatory Approach" Methodology and Workshop Process
10:30 Achievements and Impact of WSSLIC with respect to:-
-     Water Supply Access
-     Sanitation Access
-     Health and Hygiene Improvement
-     Equity - Impact / Benefits on poorest households
12:00 Lunch / Friday Prayers
13:00 Satisfaction with Quality of Services Rendered at Community Level
-     Construction: Designs, Materials Used, Training, Supervision, M & E
-     Community Organization / Sanitation / HSE: Supervision, Training, Collaboration
15:30 Coffee Break
16:00 Group Presentations and Summary of Day's Sessions
Saturday, March 4, 2000
08:00 Description of Workshop Process and Group Work
08:30 Break Out Session Sustainability I
-     Demand Responsiveness
-     Institutional and Operational Arrangements
-     Quality Assurance / Capacity Building
-     Community Organization/Participation/Decision Making
-     Technological Options
-     Cross Cutting Issues: Gender
10:00  Coffee Break
10:30 Break Out Session Sustainability II cont'd
12:30 Lunch
13:30 Plenary Session: Group Presentations and Wrap - Up
15:30 Coffee Break
16:00 Recommendations and Concluding; Remarks
- 30 -



List of Participants
No.                      Name                     Position                   Institution
Central Java Province
1.                       Sutrisno                   Ka. Sie PMD                PMD Kec. Getasan
2.                       Wiratmi SH                 Ka. Sie Sumber Daya Desa   PMD Kab. Semarang
& Pemukiman
3.                       Drs. Sumartono             Ka. Sie Prasarana & Sarana  PMD Provinsi
Desa
4.                       Suwardi                    Sanitarian Puskesmas        Kec. Getasan
5.                       Ny. Sulimah                Ketua PKK                   Kec. Getasan
6.                       Ny. Wahyuti                Ketua PKK                   Desa Manggihan
7.                       Bejo Karlan                Ketua UPS                  Desa Manggihan
8.                       Berojihanto                Ketua KPS                   Desa Manggihan
9.                       Sr Ratna Astuti             Staf Sub Din PKL           Dinkes Prov. Jateng
10.                      Sri Wahyu Andajani SKM     Ka. Sie Penyehatan         Dinkes Kab. Semarang
Lingkungan
Sulawesi Tenggara
Province
11.                      M. Idrus, SKM              Ka.Sub.Din PKL             Dinkes Tk. I Sultra
12.                      Arifin Baari               Ketua UPS                  Desa Lambusangu Kec.
Kapontori
13.                      Wery Sadelia               Ketua PKK                  Desa Ulunggolaka Kec.
Kolaka
14.                      Noni                       Anggota KPS                Desa Walay Kec. Abuki
15.                      Achmad Kadarman, SKM       Sekt Eks                   Dinkes Tk. I
16.                      Ir. Sugiharjo              PU Provinsi Sultra         PU Prov. Sultra
Sulawesi Utara Province
17.                      Soemarno SKM               Sek. Eks                   Dinkes Tk. I
18.                      BJ. Pangemanan, SPd        Ka. Sie PMD Kecamatan      PMD Kabupaten
19.                      Margaretha Dotulong        Ketua PKK                  Kec. Belang
20.                      Dra. ML. Panda Tambayong  Ketua PKK                    Desa Maliku
21.                      Herold Saroinsong          Sanitarian
22.                      Satria Kiayi               Ketua UPS                   Desa Lonuo
23.                      Thamrin Ahmad              Ketua KPS                   Desa Puncak
24.                      Usman Mayulu, BA           Pimpro PABPLP               PMD Kabupaten
25.                      Jimmy Malonda, SE          Ka. Sie Kesra               Bappeda Kabupaten
26.                      Ir. R.C. Moloeng           Staf. Dinas PU              Bappeda Kabupaten
27.                      Ir. Robby Tanauma          Ka. Sie. Kesra              Bappeda Provinsi
28.                      Taslim Sudiyanto, SKM      HS
29.                      Purwanta                   FO
- 31 -



Sulawesi Tengah
Province
30.                      Drs. Rifailof             Ka.Sie Prasarana dan       PMD Tk. ll
Sarana Desa
31.                     Ismail M. Tega, BA         Ka.Sie Sumber Daya &       PMD Tk. II Buol Toli Toli
Pemukiman Desa
32.                      Yahya Karim               Ketua UPS                  Desa Lalengan
33.                      Nismah Saleh              Ketua KPS                  Desa Lumbudolo
34.                      Hestriwani Ullal          Sanitarian                 Desa Bombanon
35.                      Muh. Yusran Maknoen, SKM   Ka. Sie. PKL              Dinkes Tk. ll Poso
36.                      Sulaiman Tuahunse, SKM    Sekt Eks                   Dinkes Tk. I
Maluku Province
37.                      Ny. S. Lokollo            SE                         Dinkes Maluku
Nusa Tenggara Timur
Province
38.                      Domisianus L. Kale        Staff SE                   Dinkes Tk. l
39.                      Siprianus Bilaut          Ketua UPS                  Desa Oelet Sala
40.                      H. M.B. Lisnahan          Sek. PKK Desa              Desa Oelet Sala
41.                      Anderias Lisnahak         Ketua KPS                  Desa Oelet Sala
42.                      Soeprihatin               FO
Central Participants
43.                      Drs. Abdullah Muthalib MM    Ka. Dit. P. AIR         Ditjen PPM & PLP
44.                      Dr. Burhanuddin Yusuf DTM   Ka. Dit. PLP             Ditjen PPM & PLP
SH
45.                      Djoko Wartono, SKM        SE. WSSLIC                 WSSLIC
46.                      Tubagus Baihaqi, SKM      SE. WSSLIC                 WSSLIC
47.                      Kurniawan Karta, SKM      Dit. PLP                   Ditjen PPM & PLP
48.                      Makmun Al Rasyid          Bag. Keu                   Ditjen PPM & PLP
49.                     Ir. F. Mulia Harefa        CPAO                       Ditjen Cipta Karya
50.                      Drs. Priyono              BPKP                       BPKP
51.                     Ir. Wartono                PMD                        Ditjen PMD
52.                      Wilpren Gultom, SE        Pimpro                     Ditjen PPM & PLP
53.                     Ir. Biskar                 Pimpro                     Ditjen PPM & PLP
54.                      Sanitas L. Tobing         SE. WSSLIC                 WSSLIC
55.                      Farida Bey MSC            Dit. P. AIR                Ditjen PPM & PLP
56.                      Diana Nurhayati           SE WSSLIC                  WSSLIC
57.                      Ngadini                   Bendahara                  Ditjen PPM & PLP
- 32 -



Annex 10. Borrower's Comments (unedited)
MINIT  OF HEALTH
DIRECTORATE GENERAL COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL
AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
Malan Percelakan Negara 29.                                    Telpon 4247608
Kotak Pos 223 Jaarta 10560                                     Telex 49310 - PPM JKT. Fax. 4207807
Our Ref      KS.00.01.4L                                   Jakarta, May 31 2000
To
Alan Ruby                                           e' AkN W E          F  
Sector Director
Human Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region                   C:                             PM
The World Bank                                  --          m L/F         C
Washington                                                    3 b X q
Ln. 3629-IND : Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project
Draft Inplmentaion Conpletion Report
Dear Mr. Ruby,
We appreciate you for submitting the draft implementation completion report and evaluation of
the WSSLIC project implementation. We knew from the evaluation that the project had
achieved substantial progress specifically the involvement of communities in planning,
implementation and roles of Government Officials in proper way. Besides success story of the
project, we still fomnd a lot of constraints during project implementation. We would like to
clarify of several item such as:
- The WSSLIC Project was developed in 1992, in line with the Government policy where the
role of Central Government was quite strong. Many line agencies have hesitated to the project
because the approach was developed with strong focus on active involvement of communities,
in which asking them to contribute of 4% in cash and 16% inkind. We ( the preparation team
include the Bank Staff ) tried to encourage the line agencies that it is necessary to involve
communities to the whole process of the project implementation to support communities become
self-help in improving and managing their water and sanitation facilities. This project is the first
Govemment project's, involving the communities to have a real contribution either in cash and
inkind.
- Project activities have been implemented by line sectors such as Departnent of Home Affair,
Department of Public-Works and Department of Health with a clear understanding of their roles
and responsibilities at any level of Govermment Administration. Even the background ofthe line
sectors was very difference, the project tried to encourage them with clear role and
responsibility based on the sequence of project activities. At the same time in each level of
Government Administration, the project has established the coordination team consist of Healtb,
Public Works and Home Affair. The coordination team is still functioning and in this fiscal year
they concentrate their activities in rehabilitating and functioning the facilities that has been
constructed by the project to optimize their benefit and sustainability.
- 33 -



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
( )   NDIRECTORATE GENERAL COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL
AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
auan Perocakn Negaa 29.                                       Tdpon 4247608
Kotak Pos 223 Jabrta 10560                                    Tekx 49310 - PPM J1CT. Fx. 4207807
- During project implementation, we believe that the communities are able to contribute either in
cash and inkind. Most of the village project sites have collected fee for contribution with
different kind of methods of collection. According to the CPS findings, that the method and
approach of fee collection could not be standardized but it is depend on geography, culture and
socio-economic background of the comrmunities.
- We agree that the health awareness comes when peoples can describe how diseases are
transmitted in their environment and through their own behavior. When we started the project,
there has been discussions on how to jprocess HSE activities to be linked with the construction
of facilities, because we realized that HSE without followed-up by construction as a real action
activities is meaning less. HSE activities mean dissemination of materials related to health
facilities aspects. After midterm review, modification of HSE approach has been made, concern
given to developing and encouraging the communities through participatory training and
specify the target group to student and their parents. For batch IV and V implementation,
packages of stimulant where provided for selected villages to support their activities such as
school latrine, hand washing facilities, deworming activities water supply and private latrine for
student's parents. Each village was provided a package stimulant amounting IR. 4.5 million to
support the above mentioned activities. A village plan was developed by the communities
according to their need. With those actilvities, we expected, that inter-action and communication
will occur among family members in the house to discuss about healthy way of life related to
hygiene and sanitation. In two years project implementation, total investment for 231 villages
were about IDR 1.04 billion and commnunities contribution were about IDR 509 million (50/e
from total investment). This was an indicator that communities have given good response to this
approach, we expected that the commimities aware of how importance hygiene and sanitation
for their life.
We thank you for your continuous cooperation and assistance to the project
Best Regards,
*- - ~re ours
.'   DR. UmariAchmadi, MPH
)E neral CDC & EH
Ministry of Health
-34 -



Revised
Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key                     Staff Appraisal            Actual
Water Supply
Population                                   2.000.00              3.134.3012
Villages                                      1.414                  2026
Sanitation
Population                                   1.700.00              3.134.302
Villages                                      1.414                  2026
Type of Water Supply
1. Dug                                        8.95                  8.197
2. Dug wells with pumps                        548                   374
3. Piped system with public taps               878                   538
4. Piped system with                                                 395
5. Piped system with public                                          504
6. Piped System with house                                           315
7. Spring                                      165                   150
8. Rain water colk'ctoJ,                      2.02i 0.60to
Type of Hygiene & Sanitation
I. Family                                     13.62                 19.617
2. Public                                     1.350                  1397
3. School                                      763                   639
4. MCK (Bathing, Washing and Latrine)         2.01                   1759
5. Stimulant                                 49.405                 54-216
6. Waste Water                                4.420                 4168
Community
1. Village action plans prepared              1414                  2220
2a. In cash (in RP)                       4.577.166.042          3.532.200.755
b. In-Kind (materials and labors)        15.935.684.65         12.i03149.882
2. Village Water Commitees                    1414                   2026
Technical
1. Topical                                                            6
2. Lct Training                               (9.4S                 248.08
3. Technical Service Groups (Technical)        16                     22
4. Technical Service Groups (Project           12                     22
Adviser)
5. OtherTechnical                              17
- 35 -



- 36 -



