                                                                                                             51464
               WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR LOW INCOME
                        COMMUNITIES: INDONESIA*

(Note: This case study documents the project details as per the latest available data.
Specific information on the effectiveness of the monitoring, evaluation and supervision
activities, and information on the impact and effectiveness of the project's programmatic
structural learning component was not available in the public domain)

I.     Abstract

The Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-Income Communities (WSSLIC) project was
jointly initiated by the World Bank and the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in 1993. The
project was designed to improve the water supply and sanitation conditions in some of
the poorest rural communities of Indonesia. It was expected that improved access to safe
and reliable water supply and sanitation facilities, along with the provision of hygiene
and sanitation education would result in improved health and increased productivity of
the community members.1

Community participation was encouraged in all phases of the project, from project design
to implementation and maintenance. Mechanisms such as meetings, community surveys,
focus group discussion, training, and capacity-building exercises facilitated active
community involvement. Information sharing and dissemination was ensured through
community notices and updates on project rules, roles, and responsibilities. Such data
sharing also induced transparency in the project's activities.

WSSLIC was completed in September 1999 and contributed substantially to improve the
water supply and sanitation facilities in rural communities, although sanitation and
hygiene education did not result in any major behavioral changes. Some of the other
issues that remained partially unresolved were administrative and fund channeling
arrangements, mechanisms to encourage the active participation of women, and the
delegation of community control over the water supply and sanitation systems.

The Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project (WSSLIC 2) began operation in 2000.
The project builds on the drawbacks and lessons learnt from WSSLIC and other rural
infrastructure development projects in Indonesia.


II.    Background

The majority of the rural population in Indonesia lacks access to basic reliable water
supply and sanitation services. Data from a household health survey carried out by the

*
  This case study was prepared by a team comprising Prof. Deepti Bhatnagar and Ankita Dewan at the Indian Institute
of Management (Ahmedabad) and Magüi Moreno Torres and Parameeta Kanungo at the World Bank (Washington
DC).
1
  It was presumed that access to reliable water supply would save the time spent in collection of water from different
sources, thereby enabling communities to spend more time on productive activities. Similarly, access to sanitation and
safe water supplies would bring down the rate of morbidity due to sanitation and water borne diseases, and would
improve community health.


                                                                                                                     1
       Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


Ministry of Health in 1998 indicated that only 30 percent of the population had access to
safe drinking water, and rural sanitation coverage was estimated to be only 25percent.2 A
large number of households that did not have access to regular water supply dug their
own wells, which were unprotected and thus easily contaminated. Other households
fetched water from long distances, with women and children carrying most of the burden.
With regard to sanitation, people often relied on unhygienic practices for defecation.
Consequently, water-borne diseases became a major cause of morbidity and mortality,
particularly among small children.

The Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) sector received considerable attention from the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) since late 1960s. Many small-scale projects had been
undertaken, funded by NGOs (CARE, Indonesia) and external donor agencies such as
World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). The experience of these projects indicated
that demand-responsive approaches that extensively involved communities in planning,
financing, and managing WSS services were more likely to be successful.

As part of their ongoing efforts to improve rural water and sanitation services, the World
Bank and the Government of Indonesia jointly financed several large-scale projects. The
first of these was the WSSLIC, which spanned six years from June 1993 to September
1999.3 The objectives of the WSSLIC project were to provide safe, adequate, and easily
accessible water and sanitation services, to improve community health awareness and
behavior, and to develop sustainability and effectiveness through public participation.
WSSLIC was expected to serve 2 million people in the villages of six Indonesian
provinces: Central Java, Maluku, Nusa Tenggara, Timor, and Southeast, Central and
North Sulewasi. The main consideration for selecting the target villages was their
inclusion in the list of Government's "Left Behind Villages" Program (INPRES
program), a part of the national poverty alleviation program.4 After this initial screening,
the villages were considered for project assistance based on five additional criteria:
incidence of water-borne diseases, water scarcity, water quality, infant mortality, and
willingness to pay for operation and maintenance (O&M).

The project consisted of two broad components:

    1. Direct Infrastructure Development Support.
       · This included construction of a water supply and sanitation infrastructure.
           Water supply construction included piped systems and non-piped systems,
           while sanitation construction included setting up of communal toilets.
    2. Institutional Development and Capacity Building Support.
       This included the following subcomponents:
       · Hygiene and Sanitation Education (HSE)
2
  Source: Staff Appraisal Report, WSSLIC. (World Bank Document) May 26,1993.
3
  Other water projects were the Village Infrastructure Project 1(1995) & 2 (1997) and the Kecamatan Development
Project (1998).
4
  The INPRES program or IDT (INPRES Desa Tertinggal), initiated in 1974 as a part of the GOI's efforts to accelerate
rural development through construction of water supply and sanitation facilities The Program is a part of the National
Poverty Alleviation Program and targets villages, which have somehow been left behind by previous national
development programs.


                                                                                                                     2
         Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


           ·   Training and Community/Institutional Development
           ·   Technical Assistance
           ·   Project Management.

The project execution was headed by the Ministry of Health along with the Ministry of
Public Works and Ministry of Home Affairs. The provincial and district level project
coordination teams were supported by social science consultants (a mix of NGOs and
commercial firms) and engineering consultants. While the social science consultants
trained the community members in planning and managing the WSS systems, the
engineering consultants offered the necessary technical advice. The Public Works
Department supervised the design and construction of WSS systems.

Under the project, each village had to form a Village Implementation Team or Village
Water Committee. This committee or team was expected to serve as a focal point for
community participation in planning, implementing, and managing the project activities.
Every committee had to prepare a Village Action Plan (VAP) indicating the type and level
of WSS service to be provided along with financial, labor, and managerial commitments
of the community, government agents, and contractors. This document was mandatory if
the community was to be eligible to receive project finances. With the assistance of the
project staff, the committees conducted surveys in their respective villages to identify the
WSS needs and the demands of the community members. Based on the results of these
surveys and the options presented by the field officers on the technically and financially
feasible projects, the villagers prepared the VAP.

VAPs were to be submitted each year through the GOI bottom-up planning process
known as PD5.5 If the VAP was approved by the central government, the funds for
project implementation were sent in the following 15 months. During the waiting period,
training and capacity-building exercises were carried out for the government staff (at all
levels) and the village water committees. The training activities included:

     ·     Training in planning and implementation of water supply and sanitation facilities
     ·     Hygiene and sanitation education
     ·     Training in operations, maintenance, and water resource management
     ·     Gender training and information for project staff and community leaders
     ·     Skill and managerial training geared to increasing the scope of income-producing
           activities associated with operations of the water and sanitation facilities.

Women's participation in all phases of the project cycle was encouraged through
activities such as special training for women in planning and implementation of WSS
systems, and hygiene and sanitation education targeted at women and children.




5
  PD5 is a "bottom up-top down" planning process involving every level of government. VAPs from the community
level move up to higher levels of government, and are changed in accordance with political, financial, and technical
considerations. The final decision for project approval, setting budget ceilings, project targets, etc., is made by the
central government.


                                                                                                                          3
       Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


The water systems were mostly contractor-built. Communities paid 4 percent of the
capital costs in cash and 16 percent in kind (material and labour) along with 100 percent
of the O&M costs.6 Funds were channeled through government agencies at central,
provincial, and local levels.

The project adopted the programmatic structural learning approach, which incorporated
lessons from each year's experience and used these lessons to improve project
performance in the following year. Monitoring and evaluation was carried out using
process and outcome indicators. Some of the process indicators were the quality of
VAPs, records of community contributions in cash and kind, and contract processing
time. The outcome indicators were cost per capita of completed systems, construction
quality, and health impacts. Communities were trained to "self-evaluate" project
activities, from project training, designing, and construction to evaluating their own
effectiveness in operating and maintaining the constructed WSS systems.


III. Impact/Results

The project achieved substantial improvements in access to water in rural communities.
WSSLIC has been instrumental in bringing water to more than 3 million people in 1,999
villages of Indonesia. Water accessibility increased in all the target villages of the project,
cutting down considerably on time and energy required to fetch water, especially in
topographically challenging areas.

The project led to the construction of 1,759 public bathing facilities, 1,397 public and 639
school toilets, and helped construction of some twenty thousand private family toilets.
Many households seemed to have benefited from the "stimulant package" and built or
improved their own toilets.7 A survey conducted in 19 villages and among 475
households reported improved health (33 percent of respondents) and decreased levels of
diarrhea (25 percent of respondents).8

A mid-term review of the project reported reasonable levels of consumer satisfaction in
terms of the quality and quantity of water supply, the system in general, management of
the system, and planning decisions. The following table reports the satisfaction levels of
respondents surveyed in 16 WSSLIC villages by the World Bank in 1996-1997.




6
  The costs of both routine O &M and replacement of assets with less than seven years of expected life were covered by
community contributions. If the community was unable to meet the cost of unexpected major repairs from its own
resources, and if such a village had collected 75 percent of the amounts due from households for O&M as set forth in
VAP, the district government supplied funds from the general budget to cover cost of such repairs.
7
  GOI collaborated with UNICEF to provide "stimulant" materials worth about U.S.$12.00 for one toilet to a group of
households who requested assistance.
8
  Source: www.inform.umd.edu/IRIS/IRIS/docs/wp251.pdf


                                                                                                                    4
      Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia



                                   Table 1: Consumer Satisfaction
                                Dimensions                              Satisfied consumers
                                                                        ( % of respondents)
             1. Satisfaction with service                                       93%
             2. Satisfaction with management                                    83%
             3. Satisfaction with hours (availability of                        67%
             water)
             4. Satisfaction with choices made                                    85%
            Note: The figures reported above present approximate values in percentages.
            Source: www.wsp.org/english/focus/conference/main_indonesia.pdf



IV. Key Elements of Empowerment

Access to information

The project rules, roles, and responsibilities were posted at public places in project
villages as a part of the pre-construction training. Training and capacity-building
exercises, focus group discussions and meetings ensured easy information access for the
community members. The final decision about the construction of all physical works was
to some extent influenced by `informed choice' process, whereby communities were
informed of the technical and feasible options, and the option chosen by the villagers was
reflected in the Village Action Plans.

An evaluation study reported a good understanding of the responsibilities of operation
and maintenance among the respondents (84 percent).9 Although details of community
financial contributions were displayed publicly, the local government officials hesitated
to post total project costs or contract values. Consequently, few villagers (15 percent or
less) had knowledge on cost-related data.10


Inclusion/Participation

One of the objectives of the project was to develop sustainability and effectiveness of the
water system through public participation. To accomplish this objective, community
participation was advocated at each phase of the project. For instance, the draft of the
VAP in the design phase of the project reflected the felt needs and demands of the
community members, which were identified jointly by the villagers and the project staff.
The pre-construction activities included training and capacity-building exercises,
meetings, and focus group discussions at the community level. These activities also
encouraged women to be a part of the water management system. The communities were
also actively involved in post-construction activities such as O&M, cost recovery, and

9
  Survey conducted in 16 WSSLIC villages in 1996-1997.
Source: www.wsp.org/english/focus/conference/ main_indonesia.pdf
10
   Survey conducted in 16 WSSLIC villages in 1996/1997.
Source: www.wsp.org/english/focus/conference/ main_indonesia.pdf




                                                                                                 5
     Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


cleaning water systems. Participation in all stages of the project cycle developed a sense
of ownership among the community members.


Accountability

Regular access to information and active community participation in the project made the
project functioning transparent. The VAP clearly demarcated the duties and
responsibilities of the government officials and project staff. This information, to some
extent, enabled the communities to supervise project proceedings.


Local Organization Capacity

WSSLIC played an important role in organizing the villagers to work jointly towards the
project's implementation. Organization at the village level was evident in the formation
and working of the village water committees, construction of WSS systems, and the
operation and maintenance of those systems. Surveys, meetings, and discussions with the
project staff enabled the villagers to identify and voice their demands, express their joint
opinion over WSS options, and, later, to execute project activities in coordination with
the project staff.


V.   Issues and Lessons

Challenges

The project involved lengthy and complicated fund channeling arrangements. Funds were
dispersed through INPRES program to different sector agencies at three levels of
government. This made the entire process slow, expensive, and opaque and at the same
time induced budgeting and disbursement constraints in the project. In addition, the
project also suffered from administrative complexities. Each year of project
implementation had separate technical and non-technical contracts requiring considerable
effort in procurement and administration. There were multiple agencies involved in
project execution, adding on to the project complexity.

Under WSSLIC neither the design engineers nor the contractors (in contractor-built
systems) were accountable to the community in any way. Furthermore, no control over
activities affecting physical condition was handed to the community until after
construction. The final project design was often distorted by the government's PD5
process, which sometimes did not take into account the actual community demands. This
often resulted in low satisfaction levels and lack of ownership. Not surprisingly, the cash
contribution was perceived as a tax rather than a voluntary payment for a desired service.

The training and capacity-building component did not bring about a noticeable change in
the hygiene and sanitation behavior of people in the target villages. One independent
study did not find any change in the hygiene and sanitation attitudes and behaviors
between study and control villages. People did not seem to have gained new knowledge


                                                                                                6
         Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


and insights, as the training sessions concentrated on sanitation infrastructure.11 Although
attempts were made to enforce community discipline over water issues such as washing
hands after defecation or boiling water before drinking, no positive change in behavior
was observed.

The selection criteria for choosing villages for project assistance was not uniformly
followed across all provinces and districts. There did not seem to be a major distinction
between the poverty levels of project villages and non-project villages. Political factors
appear to have played a major role in the final selection of villages.

Although on paper, participation of women was encouraged at various stages of project
planning, implementation, and maintenance, in reality this remained ineffective in most
of the villages. At the proposal stage, for instance, women were made to feel that it was
not their place to make suggestions. There were very few water systems that saw the
participation of women in construction in post-construction activities. However, in the
few villages where women did participate actively, they contributed substantially to
making the system effective and sustainable.

Like most large-scale developmental projects, WSSLIC suffered from technical flaws
and regional variations in the quality of infrastructure. For instance half of the WSSLIC
"dug wells" and most of the rainwater catchments had no water in the dry season, and in
some piped-water systems the community groups experienced a decline in the water
supply over time. The factors listed below seem to be the possible causes of such
variation, and require additional focus from the project authorities:

     ·     Starting construction before finalization of Village Action Plans
     ·     Limited use of or ad hoc modifications of VAPs or engineering design plans to
           accommodate last-minute requests from committees
     ·     Tight budget ceilings which may have forced the contractors and villagers to opt
           for cheaper products of mediocre quality
     ·     Limited supervision of construction by consultants or government agencies.

Lessons

     ·     One of the possible factors limiting the effectiveness of the training and sanitation
           component could be the low emphasis on having a hygiene and sanitation system
           in the village. The importance and benefits of having a toilet, a gutter or a
           drainage system, observing hygiene in water supply and sanitation activities, etc.,
           were not highlighted sufficiently during the project's execution. Bringing about a
           lasting behavioral change in communities is a slow and drawn-out process. Such a
           change can only result when an attempt is made to change the attitudes of people
           rather than merely providing infrastructure support.
     ·     In most cases women are the primary collectors of water and key decisionmakers
           as to which water source to use for what purposes. As women are important

11
 Implementation Completion Report on a loan in the amount of US$80 million to the Republic Of Indonesia for the
Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project: World Bank Document, June 16, 2000.


                                                                                                                  7
       Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


         stakeholders, their inclusion in the project management and other related activities
         is critical for the true level of demand to emerge. Concrete steps such as holding
         separate meetings for women before general village meetings and increasing
         women's representation at the village meetings can help increase women's
         participation. Another step can be to increase awareness levels among the male
         members of the community, especially the leaders, about the need and reasons for
         involving women in the project activities.
   ·     Many NGOs of small and medium size were involved in project implementation
         as independent consultants or contractors. However, their participation in
         activities such as community development, preparation of VAPs, and hygiene and
         sanitation activities appears to have been limited. The WSSLIC experience
         showed a direct relationship between active NGO involvement at community
         level and high project effectiveness in these villages. Active NGO involvement
         seems to lead to more participation of villagers in project activities, and better
         ability of villagers to operate and sustain the new systems.
   ·     It is not always feasible to select project villages on the basis of objective criteria
         alone; some flexibility should be retained to accommodate political and social
         considerations. Also, adequate steps need to be taken to maintain a reasonable
         degree of transparency in the selection process.
   ·     The WSSLIC project shows that poor communities have the capability to
         contribute, implement, and sustain projects that are designed for their
         development and welfare, albeit with the requisite technical and managerial
         guidance. Ensuring community influence over critical issues like final decision
         making on community-level investments seems to result in more sustainable and
         effective management of new initiatives of this kind.

Outlook

The second Water and Sanitation Project for Low Income Communities, WSSLIC 2,
began in November 2000 as a follow-on project to WSSLIC. It incorporates steps to
tackle some of the aforesaid problems faced by the first project. For instance, WSSLIC 2
ensures relatively simple fund channeling arrangements, enhances the degree of
beneficiary control over decision making, extends the scope and content of the health and
hygiene component, and has a greater level of institutional focus. Scheduled for
completion in 2006, the project targets 32 Kabupaens (districts) and about 2,000 Desas
(villages), home to 2 million people in six provinces of Indonesia.


VI. Further Information: References and World Wide Web Resources

ARD Inc. "Indonesia Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities
    (WSSLIC 1and WSSLIC 2), Background." URL:
    http://www.ardinc.com/htm/projects/p_wsslic.htm

Brown, Gillain, and Richard Pollard. "Responding to Demand: Two Approaches from
    Indonesia." URL: www.wsp.org/english/focus/conference/main_indonesia.pdf



                                                                                                  8
     Empowerment Case Studies: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities in Indonesia


Indonesian Water Supply and Sanitation Policy Formulation and Action Planning Project,
     WASPOLA. Draft 3 National Policy Development of Community-Managed Water
     Supply and Environmental Sanitation Facilities and Services. URL:
     http://www.waspola.org/pd/policy-apps-b.html

Sara, Jennifer, and Katz Travis. "Making Rural Water Supply Sustainable: Report on the
      Impact of Project Rules." URL:
      http://216.239.39.100/search?q=cache:VRc0HU3TyMIC:www.fasttrackonline.org/
      docs/P112301.doc+WSSLIC+village+water+committees&hl=en&ie=UTF-8

World Bank. Case Study: WSSLIC 2, Indonesia. URL:
    http://lnweb18.worldbank.org/ESSD/essdext.nsf/9DocByUnid/2507A535ABE9BD
    8E85256C3F0058CC4B/$FILE/WSSLIC2ProjectIndonesia.pdf.

World Bank. Implementation Completion Report On a Loan in the Amount of US$80
    Million to the Republic of Indonesia for the Water Supply and Sanitation for Low
    Income Communities Project.

World Bank: Staff Appraisal Report, Indonesia. May 26, 1993.




                                                                                                9
