Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4387-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt14.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
September 12, 1986
This document has a restricted di.ribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1 = Rp 1,100
Rp 1.00 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PERUNTEL FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASEAN         -  Association of South East Asian Nations
DEL           -  Direct Exchange Lines
DGPT          -  Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
MIS           -  Management Information System
MTPT          -  Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications
PERUMTEL      -  Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (General Telephone Company)
PMC           -  Program Management Consultants
P.T. INDOSAT  -  Indonesia Satellite Corporation
P.T. INTI     -  Telecommunications Manufacturing Company of Indonesia
Repelita      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94; Repelita VI, 1994-99)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiary:      Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (PERUMTEL).
Amount:           US$14.5 million equivalent.
Terms:            Payable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:  The IBRD loan would be onlent by the Government of Indonesia
(GOI) to PERUMTEL at a fixed interest rate of at least 12%
per annum, payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace. The GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    PERUMTEL has a large investment program and is experiencing
difficulties in implementing the program. The proposed
project is therefore designed to improve the capacity of
PERUKTEL to implement this and future programs. It would
provide for program management consultants to assist
PERUMTEL, over three years, in planning and implementing the
outside plant (cable network) expansion program, currently
its main bottleneck, and in coordinating this with the rest
of PERUMTEL's investments. The project would also support
other institutional strengthening efforts of PERUMTEL, in
particular improving its financial management, developing
its capability to review tariffs and upgrading its training
program.
Risks:            The major risk is PERUMTEL's present limited institutional
capacity and availability of counterpart staff. Project
scope has therefore been restricted to the most urgent
needs; moreover, substantial amounts of training have been
built into the project to extend PERUMTEL's capabilities,
and the program management consultants will be provided
through a single firm tD minimize the need for coordination
by PERUMTEL.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                  Local    Foreign    Total
…(US$ million) -----
Program Management Consultants                7.0         8.4       15.4
Other Institutional Strengthening             0.7         1.5        2.2
Subtotal Base Cost Ia                      7.7         9.9      17.6
Price Contingencies                           0.1         0.2        0.3
Total Project Cost                         7.8        10.1      17.9
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                          4.4        10.'       14.5
PERUMTEL                                      3.4          -         3.4
Total                                      7.8        10.1       17.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:                               1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
------- (US$  million) --------
Annual:                                 2.0    4.5    4.5    3.0    0.5
Cumulative:                             2.0    6.5   11.0   14.0   14.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no Staff Appraisal Report for this project.
Nap: IBRD No. 19213.
/a Includes taxes of US$0.1 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$14.5 million to help
finance the Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard vari-
able interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent by the
Government of Indonesia (COI) to PERUMTEL at a fixed interest rate of at least
12% per annum, payable over 20 years, including five years of grace. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Adjusting to Lower Oil
Revenues" (No. 6201-IND, dated May 20, 1986), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 27, 1986. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion km2. It now has a population of over 158 million, growing at about 2.3%
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a diver-
sified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, significant
mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agricul-
tural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and Kali-
mantan, while two thirds of the population lives on Java, which has areas with
some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a quarter
of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban popula-
tion growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1984 estimate of CNP per capita is US P40,
which places Indonesia at the lower end of the middle-income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third National
Agricultural Extension Project (P-4363-IND) circulated under cover of
R86-193, dated July 11, 1986, and approved by the Executive Directors on
July 29, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of CNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        During the 1970s, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8% p.a.
This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures, total
investment and savings. Following the turbulence of the mid-19609, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic
stability, liberalize the economy, rehabiLitate infrastructure, and provide
incentives for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant
external influence was the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net earnings from oil and LNG exports
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/174 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil and LNG also pro-
vided about 60% of budget revenues by 1980/81 and helped finance a sustained
increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures helped foster diversified
growth. Of particular note has been the support for agriculture through
investment in infrastructure and support services. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. and led to the recent achievement
of self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate
during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low base
and predominantLy oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the economy has been buffeted by unEavorable external
developments, especially for oil. Accordingly, the external terms of trade
have deteriorated by 18% over the past four years. In response, the
Goverinment acted decisively to stabilize the economy and provide a basis for
longer-term structural adjustment. Related measures included: (a) restraints
on public investment and reductions in budget subsidies; (b) maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate policy (following a major devaluation in March 1983);
(c) wide-ranging structural reforms in the taxation and financial systems; and
(d) a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping operations. These
measures have had a positive impact on the balance of payments, with the
current account deficit reduced from US$7.2 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83
to an estimated US$2.0 billion (2.6% of CNP) in 1985/86. Domestic inflation
has also been reduced to less than 5% in 1985. However, this stabilization
process has involved a heavy cost in terms of lower investment and growth.
Since 1981, GDP growth has averaged only 2.6% p.a.; adjusting for population
growth and the terms of trade loss, per capita incomes have faLlen. The
industrial sector has been particularly hard hit, with low rates of capacity
utilization and emerging financial problems in many enterprises.
6.        The economic outlook for Indonesia is dominated by the recent
collapse and uncertain prospects for world oil markets. Preliminary
indicators are that Indonesia's net oil/LNG export earnings could fall by
almost 60% during 1986/87. Because of the cautious management strategy
adopted by the Government in recent years, Indonesia is better placed than
most oil exporters to cushion the short-term impact of lower oil revenues.
External reserves stand at over US$10 billion (equivalent to nine months of
imports) and another US$2 billion is available in undrawn commercial
credits. However, the Government is still legitimately concerned about the
impact of a prolonged shortfall in oil revenues. Despite tight controls over
public external borrowing in recent years, the debt service ratio had reached
25% by 1985 and will rise further (even without new borrowing) over the next



-3-
few years. The scope, therefore, for additional borrowing to cover the
resource gap is limited. Instead, the Government has opted for further
cutbacks in government expenditure. Already, an austerity budget has been
announced for 1986/87, with total expenditure budgeted to decline by 71 (222
for development expenditure). With continued prudence and some recovery in
oil prices, the current account deficit could be brought back to less than 32
of GNP over the next three years. However, economic performance would remain
highly constrained, with CDP growth close to 2% p.a. and declining per capita
incomes.
Policies for Growth and Adjustment
7.        As already noted, the Indonesian Government, faced with lover oil
revenues, is acting to maintain balance of payments and domestic financial
stability through demand restraint. However, over the medium term,
Indonesia's ability to achieve its goals of sustainable growth with equity
will depend crucially on the skill with which it manages the transition from
oil dependency toward a more diversified, semi-industrial economy. Some of
the elements of this strategy, including structural reforms in the taxation
and financial systems, are already in place. However, successful adjustment
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards regional
development and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the
import content of investment while still meeting the Government's equity and
employment objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are estab-
lished to facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multiyear expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection proce-
dures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project implemen-
tation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly.  Given the
budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation.  To
encourage this process, the Government recently announced simplifications in
investment approval procedures and a major internal reorganization of the
Investment Coordinating Board. These measures were followed, in May 1986, by
a package of regulatory reforms to make Indonesia more attractive to foreign
investments.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist



- 4 -
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. Most recently, in May 1986, the Government announced a policy
package designed to ensure that exporters would have access to raw materials
and intermediate inputs at international prices. However, over the longer
term, there is no effective substitute for comprehensive trade reform. On the
import side, Indonesia's trade regime has historically been characterized by a
predilection for high tariffs and quantitative restrictions. In March 1985,
the Government announced a major reduction in the range and level of nominal
import tariffs. However, other actions, including increased use of import
quotas/bans and regulations requiring higher local content in production, have
served to promote some potentially costly and uneconomic investments which
could prove counterproductive to the export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed among its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's CDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
aL increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.



-5-
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81 associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural nonagricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lover
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market could lead to
stagnant or declining labor income, especially in rural areas and the urban
informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
nonfarm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whoLe system.
In the health sector, there has been a Large expansion in facilities, notably
at the subdistrict level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be



- 6 -
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 19709 is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term, despite
the impact of lower oil revenues. Even so, continued resource transfers from
abroad will be essential to sustain modest GDP growth (2Z p.a.) over the next
three years. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.8 billion p.a. from 1986/87 to
1988189, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assis-
tance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the Government's record of economic management is good and a comfort-
able cushion of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1985 iY estimated at
US$28 billion, with an additional US$15 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
nonconcessional multilateral aid) accounts for 48% and obligations at variable
interest rates for only 21%; there is no short-term public debt. The average
maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1985 is estimated at 16 years. The
Covernment continues to manage its external debt quite prudently. Until 1981,
Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service ratio, based on
gross exports, at below 10%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export
receipts over the past three years, the ratio rose to about 20% in 1985. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export earnings,
Indonesia's public debt service ratio would rise to about 28% in 1986 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio would rise from 25% in 1985 to around 33% in 1986 and then
decline again. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
Ling US$896.5 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
public (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1985 was 14.8%, and
the share of debt service, 9.7% compared with 14.51 and 8.8%, respectively, in
1984. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the remainder
of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment,
food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, industrial
development financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecom-
munications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita rII (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic deveLopments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and empLoyment whiLe continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third National
Agricultural Extension Project (No. P-4363-IND) circulated under cover of
R86-193, dated July 11, 1986, and approved by the Exective Directors on
July 29, 1986.



- 8 -
tures, and foster a policy environmen, conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that hab
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with thL Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban developmenL
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20Z of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       Implementation, as reflected by disbursements, has /been steadily
imprpying over the past three years. The disbursement ratio- has risen from
15% _ in FY84 to about 18.5% in FY86. Although this is not yet a satisfac-
tory level, this improvement reflects the results of efforts which the Govern-
ment and the Bank have been making to address key implementation problem
areas. These include budgeting and budget release procedures, procurement
procedures, managerial capacity, limited capacity in the local consulting and
contracting industries and land acquisition. Several special Bank missions
have addressed various aspects of these problems and made recommendations,
many of which have been adopted by the Government. Seminars on procurement
and disbursement procedures as well as others which have addressed more
broadly implementation problems of specific sectors have been held, in
4!   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.
51   Excluding the Special Assistance Program (SAP)-related disbursements
which added 2.8%.



- 9 -
addition to regular formal meetings between the Bank and the Government to
review implementation and disbursement performance and project and sector spe-
cific problems. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the Government
has acted to streamline some complex budgetary and financial procedures,
improved its information system, and instituted training programs in proce-
dures and project management. In addition, a ministerial level committee
responsible to the President has been established to monitor implementation
performance, as well as a ministerial committee on land acquisition. To
continue to assist in alleviating the problems which persist, the Bank has
been, and will be in future, working with the implementation monitoring
committee as well as on specific problem areas agreed with the Government.
Activities already underway incude: developing the local consulting and
contracting industries, improving budgeting and financial procedures, and
strengthening management information systems for procurement and post-contract
implementation monitoring.
PART IrI - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Introduction
21.       A good telecommunications network is essential for economic develop-
ment. This is particularly true for Indonesia, where transport costs are high
due to the size and archipelagic geography of the country. Improved telecom-
munications are critical to the Government's efforts to attract foreign
investment, develop nonoil exports and tourism to offset falling foreign
exchange earnings from oil, reduce congestion in Jakarta and disperse industry
and commerce to the smaller cities and outer islands, provide health, agricul-
tural extension and other services to remote areas, and hasten national inte-
gration among the diverse and w-despread population. Availability of reliable
telephone and telex services would economize the use of transport facilities
and improve the efficiency of the service sector. Recognizing the benefits of
telecommunications and the sector's present underdevelopment, the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) has accorded priority to the sector in its Fourth National
Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89) by allocating for planning
purposes a total of US$3.1 billion for investments in this sector (see
para. 36).
Sector Organization
22.       The Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications (DGPT),
within the Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT), adminis-
ters telephone, telex and telegraph services, both domestic and international.
Under the DGPT, Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (PERUMTEL)--a state-owned
public enterprise--is responsible for all domestic telecommunication services,
while international services are handled by the Indonesia Satellice Corpora-
tion (P.T. INDOSAT)--also a state-owned corporation. Marine communications
are controlled by the Directorate General for Sea Communications of the
Ministry of Communications, in close coordination with the DOPT.



- 10 -
23.       Telecommunications manufacturing in Indonesia is dominated by
P.T. INTI, under the DGPT, which assembles telephone handsets, radio equip-
ment, satellite ground stations and multiplex equipment. P.T. INTI has
recently begun to assemble digital switching equipment for PERUNTEL's expan-
sion program, with technical assistance from Siemens A.G. of the Federal
Republic of Germany. Four private manufacturers supply telephone cables,
while accessories come from a variety of companies. Due in part to PERUMTEL's
low and fluctuating level of investment, the telecommunications manufacturing
industry in Indonesia, in general, has Low capacity utilization, and sells at
prices substantially above internaLionaL prices.
PERUHTEL's Organization, Management and Staffing
24.       PERUMTEL is managed by a Board of Directors, appointed by the
President of Indonesia and accountable to the DCPT, and headed by a President
Director. The five other Directors are responsible for the Operations and
Engineering, Personnel and Administration, Finance, Supply, and Development
(investment planning and implementation) Directorates, respectively. (The
organizational chart is shown in Annex IV). Although day-to-day operational
responsibility is decentralized to the 12 Regional Offices, planning, finance,
procurement and development are fully centralized at PERUMTEL's headquarters
in Bandung. For nearly a decade, PERUMTEL's organizational structure has
undergone only minor modifications. This relatively stable organization has
managed the routine tasks of the existing telecommunications system reasonably
well. However, inefficient management of new investment due largely to over-
centralization, resulting in poor absorption of funds and delays in providing
service, has given it an overall poor reputation. PERUMTEL ig,now starting to
decentralize project implementation to five geographic zones,- and may
further decentralize to the regions as staff capability develops.
25.       As of end-1984, PERUNTEL had 40,700 employees and a network of about
587,000 working lines. The ratio of about 72 staff per 1,000 working lines is
far above the 10-35 in other ASEAN countries. Top and middle-level management
and technical staff account for only about 5% of the total work force, due to
the Government's rigid policy on the permissible number of higher level
administrative positions and PERUMTEL's difficulty in attracting engineering
and accounting graduates, related to the overall shortage in Indonesia and to
PERUNTEL's low salaries relative to private and oil-sector firms.
26.       To upgrade the skills of its staff, PERUMTEL has given priority to
training programs. Training facilities comprise (a) the Central Training
School in Bandung for intermediate and advanced training in telecommunication
techniques, accounting and administration; and (b) the seven Regional Training
Schools for vocational training of technicians, mechanics and other skilled
staff. Specialized training has been introduced at the Central Training
School and PERUHTEL is upgrading these facilities to cater to the requirements
of an expanding network and introduction of digital technology. Although
61   Sumatra; Jakarta; West and Central Java; East Java, Kalimantan, and Nusa
Tenggara; and Sulawesi, Maluku and Irian Jaya.



- 11 -
training capacity seems adequate at the Central Training SchooL, the Regional
Training Schools need additional equipment to cater to the increased demand.
The proposed project will finance the purchase of the most urgently needed
training equipment and requisite feLlowships to be implemented within the
project period.
PERUMTEL's Financial Performance
27.       PERUlTEL's financial performance was poor during the 1980-84 period;
but was satisfactory in 1985. (Financial statements for 1980-85 are in
Annex V.) Prior to 1985, net income, before interest and nonoperating income,
as a percentage of average net fixed assets plus work-in-progress before
revaluation, was only about 8% or less; but improved to about 22% in 1985.
The financial performance in 1985 improved due to a 25% tariff increase which
became effective February 1985 and the new tax regulation which allowed the
use of accelerated depreciation for tax purposes starting in 1984. During the
1980-84 period, the operating revenue per subscriber line (DEL) increased by
about 2% p.a. in real terms; whereas operating cost per DEL in the same period
increased by about 9% p.a. in real terms, mainly due to increases in staff
salaries and wages, which grew at about 10% p.a. in real terms. During 1985
the operating revenue per DEL increased by about 16%, whereas operating cost
per DEL remained constant in real terms.
28.       PERUNTEL's overall financial position is satisfactory.  At end-1984,
the debt/equity ratio was 47/53 and current assets were about 2.6 times cur-
rent liabilities. The accounts receivabLe balance stood at about Rp 149 bil-
lion, equivalent to 36% of total revenue or 130 days of billing in that fiscal
year, which is high. As of end-1984, the cash balance and short-term invest-
ments stood at about Rp. 330 billion, which is very high, due to very low
levels of project implementation, which is reflected in the achievement of
only about 40% of the approved program during the 1983-84 period. However,
once the capital investment picks up with the help of the Program Management
Consultants, under this project, the cash balance and short-term investments
should fall.
Tariffs
29.       PERUMTEL's tariffs overall are higher than the average for develop-
ing countries. Average revenue per subscriber line in 1985 is estimated to be
Rp. 1,039,000 (US$945). PERUMTEL increases tariffs about every two years
sufficiently to maintain its operating ratio between 80% and 95%. Present
tariffs also are higher than PERUMTEL's incremental supply costs because
proposed investments in digital equipment with attendant economies of scale
are reducing unit supply costs. However, local and trunk networks are badly
congested and lower charges than at present wouLd aggravate congestion and are
unlikely to be justified. While tariff levels have been increased regularly,
the structure of PERUMTEL's tariffs still largely reflects the findings of a
1972 consulting study. Consequently rates for main tariff elements no longer
correspond closely to incremental costs (e.g., subscription rates and all
services on manual networks are heaviLy subsidized by call charges on auto-
matic networks; PERUMTEL's trunk call charges are amongst the highest in the
world). Under the proposed project, a tariff review team drawn from relevant



- 12 -
functional divisions within PERUMTEL will undertake a comprehensive review of
PERUMTEL'S tariffs and recommend desirable changes to optimize the use of
existing and new facilities.
Access to Service
30.       Indonesia has an average telephone density of about 0.4 per
100 population, by far the lowest among the ASEAN countries, comparable to
India and Pakistan (with per capita GNPs about half Indonesia's US$560), and
significantly lower than, for example, Kenya (1.3), Bolivia (2.5), and Egypt
(1.2), whose per capita CGPs approximate Indonesia's. The low density is
largely a result of a low proportion of GDP (generally 0.1-0.2%) being
invested in the sector since the early 1970's, with the exception of the "oil
boom" years of 1975-79 when investment was 0.4-0.7% of GDP and implementation
was done largely by foreign contractors on a turnkey basis. (Countries which
have rapidly developed telecommunications have generally invested 0.7-1.0% of
CDP in the sector.) Of the total equipped telephone and telex switching capa-
cities of 768,000 and 12,790 lines at end-1985, only 76% and 82%, respec-
tively, were connected, due to delays in the provision of outside plant.
Quality of Service
31.       The quality of service offered by PERUMTEL is inadequate.  Due to
the acute shortage of subscriber lines, and interexchange and long distance
equipment, the network is congested and a large portion of call attempts
fail. For example, call completion rates for subscriber trunk dialed (STD)
and international direct dialed (IDD) calls in Jakarta are only around 24% and
20%, respectively. There are presently around eight to nine faults/month per
100 telephones in Jakarta due to poor cable network. The domestic telex
service of PERUMTEL is satisfactory, while INDOSAT's international telex
service is of good quality.
Demand for Service
32.       The demand for telephone service in Indonesia is high and increas-
ing, especially in Jakarta and other large cities. As of end-1985, there were
about 370,000 registered applicants, with real demand substantially higher,
because (a) many prospective subscribers are discouraged from applying for
service by the long delays in obtaining telephone connections; and (b) demand
is not registered in areas which currently have no service. Despite the poor
quality of service, many applicants, especially in Jakarta, reportedly pay
US$4,000-6,000 equivalent for an immediate connection. (The official connec-
tion charge in Jakarta was raised from US$200 to US$500 equivalent in February
1985.)
Sector Development Constraints
33.       The three main and incerconnected constraints on the sector's deve-
lopment are: (a) PERUMTEL's institutional weakness; (b) past inadequate
financing; and (c) underdeveloped support industries. PERUMTEL's shortage of
high-level technical, managerial and financial staff (para. 25) is becoming
increasingly serious in view of the sector's growing technological sophistica-



- 13 -
tion, and the planned expansion of the network. PERUMTEL's long-term corpo-
rate planning is particuLarly weak, and has proven unable to design strategies
to take advantage of changing technical opportunities. Project implementation
is another weak area; during Repelita III (1979-84), PERUMTEL was unable to
spend its budget or meet its modest (5% per year) expansion targets. Although
this is partly due to factors not fully within PERUMTEL's control (e.g.,
delays in land acquisition, procurement, and import approval), fundamental
changes are needed in PERUMTEL's project planning, contracting, and management
systems, particularLy in cable network ("outside plant") construction where
coordination of impLementation at numerous sites is critical.
34.       In the face of financial constraints, PERUMTEL has made extensive
use of tied bilateral assistance, which has resulted in higher equipment costs
and, more seriously, in the introduction of nine different switching systems
in the country, each of which requires different operation and maintenance
procedures, staff training, and spares. This has had a serious adverse impact
on network operations and maintenance. Local cost financing has not been a
constraint so far due to the low level of development. But given the need for
a rapid expansion of the network, and the tight national budget situation,
PERUMTEL should improve its operational efficiency and generate higher
revenues through restructured tariffs which optimize the use of the limited
existing capacity (para. 29).
35.       Finally, the development of efficient local telecommunication
support industries (manufacturers, outside-plant and subscriber-connection
contractors, and consulting firms) has been hampered by PERUMTEL's low and
fluctuating level of investment. In particular, the local contractors'
quality of work and ability to respond rapidly to increasing demand are
severely limited.
Government's Development Objectives for the Sector
36.       The Government's basic objectives for telecommunications are:
(a) to establish rapidly a sound and efficient network;
(b) to make PERUMTEL largely self-financing;
(c) to develop PERUMTEL's capacity for long-range strategic planning and
effective project implementation; and
(d) to develop sound construction, consulting and manufacturing
industries to support the sector.
In accordance with the first objective, the Government's US$3.1 billion
investment target (0.7% of GDP per year) under Repelita IV (1984-89) in the
sector calls for the addition of 950,000 exchange lines (of which 60% would be
ready for immediate connection by end 1989) and associated transmission,
outside plant and ancillary facilities, thus more than doubling the network
capacity, using advanced digital technology.



- 14 -
37.       This program is divided by PERUMTEL into relatively self-contained
Batches I, II and III, of 320,000, 240,000 and 390,000 subscriber connections,
respectively. This is an ambitious target and will be virtually impossible to
achieve due to lack of implementation capacity for outside plant within
PERUMTEL. PERUMTEL is experiencing serious problems in outside plant
construction, particularly in the coordination of numerous small contracts.
At present implementation rates, it would take until the end of Repelita IV to
connect up even the 320,000 exchange lines in Batch I, resulting in severe
underutilization of installed exchange capacity. PERUMTEL has recognized the
need for a radical change in its approach, and is preparing to introduce
turnkey contracting for outside plant work for Batches II and IIr, to be
carried out by consortia of local cable manufacturers and local and foreign
telecommunications consultants. However, although the official Repelita IV
targets have so far been unchanged, both OI and PERUMTEL realize that to
complete even Batch I and make significant headway on Batches II and III
during Repelita IV, PERUMTEL will require considerable technical assistance
with its outside plant program.
Bank Sector Strategy
38.       In 1971, the Bank extended its first assistance to Indonesia's tele-
communications sector (Credit 210-IND -- $12.8 million) for: (a) a trans-
Sumatra microwave link to Java; (b) a tropospheric scatter system linking Java
and Kalimantan; (c) local distribution cables for Jakarta (5,000 new subscri-
bers); (d) a new 100-line telex exchange in Medan in North Sumatra; and (e)
consultants and expert services for PERUMTEL. The project was completed
successfully in 1976, but relatively little institutional improvement
resulted. The major lesson noted in the Project Performance Audit Report (No.
1646, dated June 22, 1977) is that Dbjectives for institution building should
be realistic within the time frame of the project, and that it takes several
repeater projects to achieve major results.
39.       In 1973, a second telecommunications project was appraised.
However, its processing was discontinued when the Bank and GOI failed to reach
agreement on tariff and investment program issues. Telecommunications in
Indonesia were subsequently developed using bilateral assistance.
40.       In light of the severe and worsening constraints (paras. 32-34)
facing the sector, and the increasing priority given to the sector, GOI
requested resumed Bank assistance to telecommunications in early 1984. The
Bank's initial support would concentrate on urgently needed technical assis-
tance to develop by 1989 PERUMTEL's capabilities to manage its development
work in the sector without significant external assistance. In addition,
emphasis would be placed on improving PERUMTEL's financial management, on
building PERUMTEL's in-house capacity to review tariffs and ensure appropriate
tariff levels and structure, and on developing the local telecommunications
support industry (consultants and contractors).
41.       As the next stage, the Bank wouid consider:  Ci) helping PERUMTEL
mobilize the remaining foreign exchange required for future investment on the
most advantageous terms; and (ii) utilizing the lessons learned under the
proposed technical assistance project to identify and support efforts to



- 15 -
further improve and strengthen the organizational capabilities of PERUMTEL, in
order to meet the needs of a greatly expanded network. A particular objective
would be to enhance the cost efficiency and quality of service of PERUMTEL's
operations by, inter alia, improving investment and manpower planning based on
network development requirements, and monitoring operational and financial
performance indicators and formulating corrective actions. Implementation of
this strategy requires concerted efforts by GOI, PERUMTEL, and the Bank, based
on a long-term relationship. Bank involvement with the telecommunication
sector in Indonesia must be considered in this context.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       Bank missions in May and November 1984 reviewed the sector and
identified areas for possible Bank assistance. The proposed project was
appraised in April 1985. Negotiations were held in Jakarta June 3 - June 5,
1986. The Indonesian delegation was headed by Mr. S. Abdulrachman, Director
General, Posts and Telecommunications. There is no Staff Appraisal Report for
this project. A loan and project summary appears at the beginning of this
report and supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
43.       The project's major aim is to improve the overall efficiency of
PERUMTEL's Directorate of Development through (i) improvements to systems and
procedures for planning, procurement, project implementation and supervision,
(ii) restructuring of its organization and (iii) on-the-job training of
PERUMTEL staff. This will facilitate timely implementation of the different
components of the total program and accelerate the laying of cables and con-
nection of new subscriber lines from the present 50,000 lines per annum to
100,000 lines per annum by 1989. The project would also strengthen PERUMTEL's
tariff review capability, improve financial management, and provide training
for PERUMTEL staff in new technology, management and finance as well as up-
grade PERUMTEL's training schools. In addition, the project would provide a
basis for the development of the local teLecommunications consulting industry
in Indonesia through collaboration with an international firm.
Project Description
44.       The main project component is the provision of program management
consultants (PMC), to help PERUMTEL: (a) develop planning and supervision
systems to help accelerate laying cables and connecting subscribers for Batch
I of the Repelita IV (1984-89) program (paras. 36 and 37), and coordinate
these outside plant activities with the rest of PERUMTEL's investment;
(b) plan, prepare basic designs, and invite and evaluate bids (on a turnkey
basis) for the entire network expansion prc4.ram (with emphasis on the outside
plant work) under Batch II; (c) introduce computerized techniques to improve
planning, engineering, management, and utilization of the local network; and
(d) develop PERUMTEL's capacity to carry out its development tasks in the



- 16 -
future by strengthening the existing organization and management of the Deve-
lopment Directorate and developing PERUMTEL's counterpart staff and local
consultants through on-the-job as welL as formal classroom training.
45.       Due to the complexity of the assignment and the need for expertise
in advanced telecommunication technologies new to Indonesia, PMC will be pro-
vided by a single international telecommunications firm as prime consultant,
who would collaborate with (and thereby help develop) local consulting firms,
which would contribute to the domestic skill base as well as moderate project
costs. Some 400 man-months of expatriate staff (three at each of the five
zones, plus five at headquarters throughout the project period) and 1,900 man-
months of local consultants' services will be provided over three years. The
expatriate personnel at headquarters would be senior-level experts in outside
plant, project management, networks, switching, transmission (terrestrial and
satellite) and support services.
46.       The second project component comprises the following activities.
(a) Computerization of the Financial Management Information System
(MIS). As a step toward establishing a corporate-wide MIS to monitor
PERUMTEL's operational efficiency, a team of local consultants will assist
PERUMTEL to design and implement a computerized MIS, based on computerized
financial accounts, for the Finance Directorate, and train PERUMTEL's staff in
operating the system. The computerization of financial accounts will ensure
timely collection of the consolidated statements, which are currently tabu-
lated manually (although some regional accounts are computerized). This is
particularly urgent in view of PERUNTEL's plan to sell bonds domestically.
Detailed terms of reference for establishing the HIS and computerized finan-
cial accounts were finalized during negotiations. Some 60 man-months of local
consultants' services will be provided over two years. During negotiations,
PERUMTEL agreed to appoint qualified consultants by January 1, 1987, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The consultants' final report,
which would be furnished Lo the Bank by June 30, 1988, would include recom-
mendations on actions needed by PERUMTEL to maintain the system. PERUMTEL
would discuss the recommendations with the Bank and implement the agreed
recommendations by December 31, 1988. In addition, this component includes
procurement of computer equipment, hardware and software.
(b) Development of PERUMTEL's Tariff Review Capacity. The project would
aim to Ci) strengthen and institutionalize PERUMTEL's capacity to formulate
and implement an appropriate structure and Levels of tariffs; and (ii) on that
basis, establish an appropriate tariff structure which facilitates efficient
provision of telecommunication services with due regard to costs, future
investment requirements, and national socioeconomic objectives. A tariff
review team drawn from the relevant departments of PERUMTEL (e.g., marketing,
operations, planning and finance) would study the tariff policy of several
overseas telecommunications entities, and would then make specific proposals
to PERUMTEL's management for tariff adjustments. The team members and the
terms of reference for the tariff structure study were finalized during
negotiations. Also, during negotiations, PERUMTEL agreed that recommendations
of the tariff study would be furnished to the Bank by July 31, 1987, and that
a plan of action for implementation of the recommendations, taking into



- 17 -
account the Bank's comments, would be finalized by December 31, 1987, and
thereafter implemented.
(c) Training. The expansion of the network based on advanced technology
will require substantial increases in the quantity and quality of PERUMTEL's
high level staff. The project would provide about 40 fellowships for overseas
staff training in Ci) planning and monitoring of projects; (ii) electronic
switching and network design, with emphasis on the transition to digital
switching; (iii) preparation and evaluation of technical specifications and
supervision of network expansion; (iv) service quality and traffic engineer-
ing; and (v) business management and finance. In addition, this component
includes switching, transmission and classroom and laboratory equipment for
upgrading the central and regional training schools to meet the increased
demand for training. During negotiations, the actual number and duration of
fellowships in each of the above fields were finalized, and PERUMTEL agreed
that, by December 31, 1986, it will select the trainees and foreign operating
entities and training institutions for fellowships in consultation with the
Bank.
Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at US$17.9 million (inclusive of
taxes amounting to US$0.1 million and contingencies) as follows:
Local Foreign Total Foreign Exchange
--- (US$ million) ---   (as Z of total)
Program management consultants         7.0       8.4    15.4          55
MIS  - Consultants                     0.2        -       0.2          -
- Computer hardware and
software                     0.2       0.3      0.5          60
Tariff review team                      -        0.1     0.1         100
Training - Equipment                   0.3       0.5      0.8         63
- Fellowships                 -        0.6      0.6         100
Base cost                            7.7       9.9    17.6          56
Price contingencies                  0.1       0.2     0.3          67
Total project cost                   7.8      10.1    17.9          56
The PMC cost is based on the consultants' financial proposal received by
PERUMTEL. Other project cosc estimates are based on equipment price and man-
month rates for comparable goods and services as of mid-1986. The local base
cost of US$7.7 million comprises local consultants (US$4.2 milLion), domestic
counterpart staff, local travel, support services, training school equipment
(US$3.4 million), and taxes (US$0.1 million). No physical contingencies have



- 18 -
been included because of the nature of this project, which does not include
construction or installation of complex new facilities or civil works. No
price contingencies have been included for program management consultants cost
because it is a fixed price contract. Price contingencies for other compo-
nents are based on projected domestic price increases of 6.02 p.a. in 1986-
1990, and international price increases of 7.2% p.a. in 1986-87, 6.8% p.a. in
1988, 7.0% in 1989 and 7.1% in 1990.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$14.5 million would be made to the
Government on standard Bank terms, and would finance about 81% of total proj-
ect costs net of taxes and duties. In line with its standard lending rate to
PERUMTEL, the Government would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
PERUMTEL, under a subsidiary loan agreement, at a fixed rate of at least 12%
p.a. for 20 years including a grace period on capital repayments of five
years. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PERUMTEL acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       The selection and employment of PMC and local consultants wouLd be
according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Prudent interna-
tional shopping would be used to procure training equipment as this includes
specialized equipment supplied by a limited number of firms. Because of the
small size of contracts for personal computers and software packages, local
competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, would be
used. The presence of local representatives of foreign manufacturers would
permit adequate service and supply of spare parts. Foreign training institu-
tions and operating entities for fellowships and visits by the tariff review
team, respectively, will be selected by PERUMTEL in consultation with the
Bank. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.



- 19 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ iillions)Ia
Bank
Guidelines          Procurement Method
Expenditure             for                     International              Total
category                Consultants      LCB       Shopping    Other       Costs
PMC                         15.4          -            -          -         15.4
(12.6)         (-)         (-)        (-)       (12.6)
MIS Consultants              0.2          -            -          -          0.2
(0.2)        (-)          C-)        (-)        (0.2)
MIS Equipment                            0.6           -          -          0.6
C-)        (0.3)         C-) 0-)               (0.3)
Training Equipment            -           -           0.6        0.3         0.9
C-)         C-)         (0.6)       (-)        (0.6)
Fellowships                               -            -         0.7         0.7
C-)         C-)          (-)       (0.7)/b    (0.7)
Tariff Team                               -            -         0.1         0.1
C-)         (-)          (-)       (0.1)/b    (0.1)
Total                 15.6          0.6          0.6        1.1        17.9
(12.8)        (0.3)       (0.6)      (0.8)      (14.5)
/a   Including contingencies and taxes.
7i   Subjects and candidates for fellowships and tariff team will be decided
in consultation with the Bank.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
50.       Disbursement would be made against lOOX of all expenditures on
consulting services, 100l of the CIF cost of directly imported equipment, 95%
of the ex-factory cost of equipment produced locally and 65% of the cost of
other equipment procured locally, and 100% of the cost of training and
training materials. Disbursements for equipment and consulting services will
be against full contract documentation; disbursements for fellowships and the
tariff review team will be against statements of expenditure. (The estimated
disbursement schedule is in Annex vIr.) The project is expected to be
completed much earlier than the standard profile for a technical assistance
project because of the advanced recruitment and relatively short duration
(three years) of the consultancy. (The proposed implementation schedule is
presented in Annex VII.) The closing date of the Bank loan would be
December 31, 1990.



- 20 -
Project Implementation
51.       The proposed project would be implemented by PERUMTEL over four
years, starting 1987. PERUMTEL's Director of Development would be responsible
for overall coordination, as well as implementation of the PMC contract, white
the training, HIS and tariff review team components will be the responsibility
of the Directors of Personnel, Finance, and Operations, respectively.
PERUMTEL will assign counterpart staff to work with the consultants and
provide data, services and facilities as required. PERUMTEL has finalized the
PMC selection and GOI has approved PERMUTEL's recommendation. Signing of the
PMC contract would be a condition of loan effectiveness. PMC would submit
detailed monthly progress reports with an executive summary to PERUMTEL. On
the basis of these monthly progress reports, PERUMTEL and the Bank will assess
the project achievements and make the necessary modifications in the work
plan. As part of the progress reporting task, the consultants will make
regular recommendations with respect to adjustments in PERUHTEL's organization
or procedures which would facilitate improved program implementation. In
addition, upon compLetion of its consulting assignment, the PMC will submit a
conclusion report, covering, inter alia, recommendations for further action to
strengthen PERUMTEL's planning, management, and implementation capacities.
This report would be furnished to the Bank for review by December 31, 1989.
On the basis of experience under the project and the PMC's concluding report,
PERUMTEL will prepare and furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1990, a program of
action for further institutional strengthening and thereafter implement the
program of action, taking into account the Bank's comments.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
52.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PERUMTEL will
furnish to the Bank: (a) project and PERUMTEL accounts, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, within nine months of the end of PERUMTEL's
fiscal year; and (b) copies of consultants' reports and recommendations including
the final reports of the PMC, tariff review team and financial HIS
consultants.
Benefits and Risks
53.       GOI is increasingly aware of telecommunications' important role in
economic development. While Indonesia has made reasonable progress during the
past three five-year plan periods, the quality and quantity of its telecom-
munication services are still inadequate. The substantial growth of both
unmet demand for service and traffic congestion in the network during the past
few years has highlighted the shortcomings of the system. The most measurable
benefit of the proposed project would be the acceleration in the rate of tele-
phone connections. This expansion would extend the system's beneficiaries and
also ease congestion in the system and consequently improve the quality of
service. Increasing telephone density and the quality of service would bene-
fit other sectors through communications-related improvements in government
and business efficiency, and the resulting lower cost of goods and services.



- 21 -
54.       PERUMTEL's institutional development would be pursued in a number of
ways, including local on-the-job and overseas training, and technical assis-
tance to strengthen the existing organization and management and operations of
the Development Directorate. This will provide the basis for substantial
improvement in the execution of all of its future programs.
55.       The project would also develop the local consultancy industry,
through collaboration with an international firm, and outside plant
contractors, through increased and steady demand and improved supervision
methods introduced by the PMC.
56.       The major risk involved is PERUMTEL's limited absorptive capacity,
given its serious shortage of qualified managerial and engineering staff.
Project components were therefore limited and selected carefully in view of
the needs, institutional capacity and the availability of counterpart staff.
Where appropriate (e.g., tariffs), the approach taken was to assist the
development of PERUMTEL's institutional capability directly rather than
through consultants. Also, the major PMC component will be provided through a
single major international firm, thus minimizing the performance risks of the
consultants and the need for coordination by PERUMTEL.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
September 12, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
INDONESIA
Reference Grouos (MRE)
Most
Recent   M"d-inccme       Mid-income
1965        1973    Estimate  As1a & Pac           LAC
AREA
rotal lana area (thou sq kM)   1919.3        19is.3       1919.3
Agricultural (I of total)           15.7       16 4         16.8
GNP PER CAPITA (UnS)                                         540.0      1021.2      i782.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (tmou)        104756.1    124242.1   158915,1
uroan 000. (1' of rotal1            15.S        t9 4        24.7        34,6        68.9
Poculation growth ratel'):
Total                                         2 1         2.3         2.3         2.3
uroan                                          4.1         4.5        4.2          3.6
Life exoect. at birth lyrs]        43.S        49.3        54.6        60.6        65.6
Poculation projections
Poo. In 2000 (till)                                     211.9
Stationary pop. (mill)                                  360.7
Population defsitg per sq km
of agricultural land              347.2       394.5       493.4        176.5        53.5
Pon. age structure 1%)
0-14 vrs                         43.7        44.1        40.7        38.7         38.7
15-64 yrs                        53.3        53.4        55.7        57.7        57.1
65 and above                      2.9          2.5        3.5         3.6         4.3
Crude birth rate (per thou)        42.8        39.2        32.6        29.7         30.1
Cruce death rate (per tnou)        20.4         15.6        12.4         9.4         7.7
rotal fertility rate                5.5         5.3         4.2          3.5         3.9
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    138.0         110.6        97.1        64.7        56.1
Child death rate (per thou)        20.0         14.7        12.1         6.9         4.3
Family planning
Acceptors. arrual (thou)            ..      181.1    3.051.0 a
Users (% of married women)          ..          ..       58.0        56.2        46.2
FOOO. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Irdex of Fooa production per
capita (1974-76 - 100)             86.7       100.4       123.2       115.8        105.2
Per capita supply of.
Calories C% of requirlints)      81.2        94.3       110.2       110.3        109.3
Proteins (grams per day)         35.3        41.0        46.5        50.0        65.0
Duo. Per pnysiclan (tnou)          31.8        20.0        12.3 a        7.9         1.3
Pao. per nurse Itnoul               9.3          3.0          -          1.8         1.2
moo. per hospital oed (thou)         1.5         1-4          ..        0.6         0.4
Access to safe water
lM of population)   rotal           ,,        3.0        23.0 D      44.1        66.3
urcan         ..        '0 0        40.0 0      64.6        77.0
Rural         ,t  10   '8.0 0                   34.4        14.9
Population Growth             infant Mortcilty        Primary School Enroilment
5  1*        -              l200
iaoU
0l                          15                             °
50~ ~ ~~~~~0
iq6a-t5 i971-B         i960 s 9s65 t970 '9;S 19S0    1960 1965 1970 1975 19a0
cM iNOONESIA                                   N  INDONESIA
1`IrRSr RE ;ROuP                                3  ;'ST QErVGRO?uP



- 23 -                                 ANNME  I
Page 2 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
INDONESIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent   Mid-income      Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate  Asia & Pac          LAC
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)       37041.5    43181.2    55063.9
Female (70                      29.7        30.9        29.5       34.6        23.9
Agriculture (M)                 70.7        63.7        57,2 a     53.3        31.8
Industry (%)                     8.9        11.0 t3.0 a             16.6       26.0
Participation rate (%):
Total                           35.4        34.8        34.7       38.8        32.3
Male                            50.6        48.6        49.1        50.7       49.2
Female                          20.6        21.2        20.3       26.9        t5.4
Age dependency ratio                0.9        0.9         0.8         0.7        0.8
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                              ..        4.8         4.8 a        ..          .
Urban                              ..        5.3         5.3 a
Rural                              ..        4.7         4.7 a
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                             ..          ..        13.9 a
Urtan                              ..         ..        46.7 a
Rural                              ..         ..         5.5 a
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                  72.0        80.0       115.0       109.5      107.3
Male                   79.0        87.0       118.0      t11.6       109.7
Female                 65.0        73.0      112.0       107.3       105.8
Secondary: Total                12.0        16.0        37.0       47.8        49.1
Male                 18.0        21.0       42.0        50.2        44.5
Female                1.0        11.0       31-0        44.7        46.7
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         41.4        29.9        28.8        29.6       29.8
Secondary                       21.4        13.4        15.7       21.8        16.3
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)          ..       55.8        77.5        74.6       55.2
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)            91.0       126.2       204.5      510.2       999.0
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% oF housenolds         ..        40.7
Highest 20%                        .        52.0        49.2 C
Lowest 20%                         ..        6.8         6.6 c
Laowsr 'Lu                         . .      17.3        14.4 C
Es:. absolute poverty income
level (USS Per capita):
Urban                                      124.0       124.0       18t.8
Rural                              ..      106.0       106.0       135.6
Est. Dop. below absolute
ooverty income level (%)
Urban                              .        51.0        26.0        27.0
Rural                              .-.0                 44.0        43.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.            1.6        2.5         4.0 a       5.7       45.8
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          6.8         8.9        14.3       62.7        94.9
EPO July 1986
Nalt avaulabim
Watt G0ouo AvErag-s am aaaulation ve'gh?acd Caunirv :overaga ;ascnds an daa Availability and s not uniform Unless atherwise
Noate. 996f xtail to any year batwaen 19s Ana -968. :973 aetwsan '970 and 1975. anAd most -scant asturnaim aeiwagn 1912 and 1985
a. 198 5. 981 C. 1960 9ncas



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Definitions of Social Indicators                             Page 3 of 6
The delinition ol'a particular social indicator may  In/witr (age 0)-I) tnortaliitv ratie - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country ovcr       per thousand livc births who die beforc reaching one
time. For instance. dilfercnt counlrics delinie "urban  year of age. in a given year.
a reai or "safe watcr" in diffcrent ways.             Child (age 1 4) nuirtaliti' rate - Number of dcaths
or children. agC 1-4. per thousand children in thc
AREA ithousand squarc kilometers)                     same age group in a given year. For mosL developing
71ftol - Total surface arca comprising land area and  countrics thcse data are derived from models using
Inland waLers.                                        information on infant mortality rates.
Agrif-ulural tperentage of rataa/) - Estimatc Lol agri-  Faiwni  planning - acceptors, (rhousands) - Annual
cultural area used fir crops. pastures. market and    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie rallow, as percentage o.f   ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                                ning program.
Famii' planning - users 1perc entage oJ married woum-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita esti-           en) - Percentage of married women or child-bearing
mates at currenl market prices. calculated by the     age who are practising. or whose husbands are
conversion method used ror the &Wrld BUaIk Atla.      practising. any Form of contraception. Women of
1'86.                                                 child-bearing age arc generally women aged 15-49.
although for some counirli s contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                       measured for another age group.
Total populIaion - ,pnid-liraer (millions)
C rban population (percentage of total) - Different   FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countrics follow different definitions of urban popu-  Index of fovdproduction per capita (1974 - 76 = 100)
lation. Such differenices may affect comparability of  - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countrics.                                 commodities. Production excludes animal fccd and
Population gro uth rate f percent) - t(. 'al and urhan -  seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-     mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
tlons.                                                of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Litf expecancv at birth frearsj - Number of years a   trients (for exaLmple. tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of   Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals.
mtirtalitv lor all people at the time of its birth were  vegetables. oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets.
to stay the same throughout its life.                 livestock. and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Popu/lationl pro jections                             tion of each country is based on national average
Poipat iUon in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex. fertilitv and  Per c apita suppIlr of* calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates. and    mentsi - Computed from energy equivalent of net
mnieration in the hase year 19X0. until the population  food supplies available in countrv percapita per day.
reachcN a stationary state.                           A6ailable supplies comprise domestic production.
Ntn11ionarr-. popidation - The projected population  imports less exports. and changes in stock  Net
le%el %%hen lero popuilation growth is achieved: i.e..    supplies exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agri-
ihe birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate.  culture. quantities used in food processing, and loss-
ihe aece tructure i% stable. and the gr(owth rate is    es in distribution Requirements were estimated for
tero                                                  1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Pl'pulainin dvir'rl i. ta.riultvral lahnd - Population per  (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer i 100 heetaresi tof agricultural areaC  activiltv and health considering body weights. envi-
4'tpui(aiiuun ague %truwn'Nte /pi'rcentJ - Children C) 14  ronmental temperature. age and sex distribution of
:.cJrs. working agwe 15 64 years. and people of' 65   population.
;ars and o%er as percentages of population.           PI'r(nlpa supphs olIprotein (grams per da)- Protein
Croe hirrl/r ronrt - Annual live hirths per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                           supply of lbod is defined as above. Requirements for
(Crud/C dleralh riftJ   - Annual deaths per thousand  all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                           ment ot Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Ictal .k.il. V rar' - The average number oFl children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
thallt  ouid be horn ali.c to a um;nan durinig her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime IIfdue ing her childhearing yeiar she were lo  arc lower than those of75 gramsoftotal protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-  23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertilitv rates.                     world. as proposed by FAO.



- 25 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population per phvsician - Population divided by     group of individuals who snare living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualificd from  a    main meals. A boarder or lodgcr may or may not be
medical school at university level.                  included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided   Percentage of dwellings with electrwci:r - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurscs, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.    living quarters as percentagc of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Pbpulation divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-  EDUCATION
valc. general and specialized hospitals, and rcha-   Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments       Primary School Enrollment - total, male andfetnate
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are  percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                        many countrics consider primary school age to be
Access to safe rater (percentage of population) - total,    6-1l years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban. and rural - People (total. urban, and rural) with    ences in country practiccs in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are voun-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older Lhan the country's standard prirmary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable       Secondary School Enrollment - total. male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access    female - Computed in a similar manner. but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational. or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day     secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and  years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the     Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondarr - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and   students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition. certain definitions  number of tcachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural. reason-   Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1.000 pupils starting primary
sources (when [hey are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.           INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                          Energy consuwnption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active   valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons. including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
housewives and students. Definitions in    gas. and hydro. nuclear and geothermal electricity)
various countrig s are not comparable.               Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
Female (percent; - Female labor force as a percen-   and kind) accruing to percentilc groups of house-
tage of total labor Force.                           holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming.    Passenger cars (per thousand population s - Includes
Forestry. hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight pcrsons; ex-
labor force.                                         cludes ambulances. hearses and mAilitarn vehicles.
Industry (percents - Labor force in mining. construc-  Newrspaper circulation (per thousand popularion) -
tion. manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as  Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                   paper." defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - total. male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage  to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are  Estimated absolute poreryr income level r L'SS per
based on Internationa; Labour Office (ILO) data on   capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the agc-sex structure of the population.             level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age  are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                              imate measures of poverty levels. and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                              Estimated population below absolute povert ir income
Average size of household fpersons per household) -  level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
total. urban. and rural - A household consists of a  populations who live in "absolute pouerty.



-  26  -                                                       AMEX I
:!DMIIESIl - ECIIBIOIC INDICRTOHS                                                 Page 5 of &
Population         155.92 mliim   lid-19931
GNP per CapitLa:  USS5O  (1913 estimate)
Ansual groNth rate 111 (at constant 1993 pracesl
Amunt                  -----------------------------                  -        ------      -----------------------------
million USt at                              ictual                        Est.                          Projected
current prices)…                            -…
Indicator                            1983                       19B1      1972       1913      1911      1995       9196      19117     29I9 19S9 (%                   2995
NATIONA ACCiUNtS
6ross domestic orodUct fa              91,076                  7.4      -C.3        3.3       6.6       1.1        1.0       2.0       3.2       3.0       3.         5.0
Agrncultare                          19.46                   4.0       1.1        1.9       5.9        .2       2.5        2.5       2.7       3.0       3.0        ..0
!ndustr                            t29,457                  5.0      -B.1        2.0       9.4       -3.3       1.1       2 1        3,7       2.0       Z.4        .2
Services                            32.152                  12 1       7.4        1        5.3        4.0       0.0        1.0       3.0       4.0       5.0       9.0
Consumption                            58,712                 11.7       2.1       -0.6       1.0       2.1       -0.9       0.o        2.9      3.5        4.4       6.1
Gross investment                       22.17                 32.9       S.!    -10.4         Lb       -7.2    -12.3        -1t        2.2        4.9       2.6       6.4
Eaperts of WNFS                         1.9i9                 -9.5    -10.9        146       4.8      -2.2        7.7       6.3       5.1       2.1        2.9       1:
Imports of GNFS                       21,77.                  20.5       4.4    -11.1    -10.2         -9.9    -1 .6        0.4        3.9       5.12      4.2       5.9
Gross national savinos                   17.5S7                 -1.7    -113         12.0      23.2       0.3       14.1       *.;       2.9        3.0       2.2       2.5
PSISES
S5P deflator  1913=100l                                         92        99        100       1o0       14         125       137       149        157       166       215
Eacharge rate IRp cer USEI                                     632       661        909      1026      1122
Sbare of GDP at market prices I1)                                   Arrasg  annual increase (t1
tat current prices) ic                                     lat constant 1913 prices)
1970      1975      1980      1985       199       1995             1970-75  1975-S0  1980-85  1985-90  I9-95
3r;ss demestic oroduct                              100        100       100       100        100       100                  8.4       7.4 i      .6 S      .b        4.2
Ar:cultare                                         47         22        .J        I4        25          .                 4.1        3.3       3.4       2.7       2.e
r.tstsr.                                           I1        34         41        Z5        .5          I        2       2.0        9.9        0.k       2.4        1.9
Ser;:,:es                                          -.         35        35        tr        40         45                 9.7        9.5       a.9       2.1       a.?
Co:SLmC:Ioc                                          99         79        II         bY        he        71                  0.4       9.2       3.2        :.1       5.:
5rGss investmeat                                      14        29        2:         25        21        22                 2&:       12.2       5.0      -I.2        5.2
E:aorts :f SNFE                                       1'        23        32         2k        29        25                  9.2       2.9      -1.1        4.12       .2
lnoorts  4i WNFS                                    -1         -22       -2        -2')       -IB       -to                22.1       14.0      -2_.0     -0.'        41.
Gress nat;loal sailnos                                 9        1         25         25        2B        25                2.1        14.2        .9       s .C       :.;
As I Df GDP
------------------iiC--------~ii5~ ~--------------- ~~--------
1970                1975                 1910                1984
PUBLIC FNANCE lb
Current revenoes                                                                             12.1                17.4                 20.9                18.6
Current eaoenditures                                                                          2.4                 9.9                 11.9                 11.0
Surnlus                                                                                       1.6                 7.5                  9.0                  7.6
Capital enaepditcre                                                                           5.0                11.3                 12.1                11.6
Foreicr haaeain                                                                               ; 5                                      3                    4.0
1970-75             1975-00              1980-85             195-90               1990-95
DTHER IHDIEAT1RS
Annual SIP oromtb rate  1'1                                                        7.6                  7.1                  .4                  2.P                  4.4
Annual UHF per capita oroeth rate Itl                                              5.1                  4.7                  1.2                 0.9                  2.3
Annual enerrs cGasUwption ;roeth rate 11                                          11.t2                11.0                 N.A.                N.A.                  .A.
ICOR                                                                               2.2                  3.3                  7.9                 8.5                  5.0
ariroinal svanins rate                                                            0.49                 0.28                 0.27                0.51                 D.15
import elasttcitv                                                                  2.9                 0.94               -0.55                -0.10                 1.07
Ia Rt maket prices.
lb  Central  SaverOOent onil, on an April-to-Harch fiscal year basis.
Ic At constant Prices from 1990 Co.
East Asia and Parific Regional Office
hay 1996



- 27 -
i1l01 - AD            OF FIl1,    I_  CAPITAL 3          UT                               --MY
IIIU *111m  at aeral prEncl
Pupaia.,    m  1358.2 silio.n 4iid-313
p po  Capitola  tI         IS9M  aitImatel
ktiw                     lot.                    PrvJKtd
11 I              i        is 1       s       Inl      1i1        MI       Ig       urn    139
h6LO   UF P4S111MB Ji
1.  tprts                                              23,9   n9,rn   2a,ni I:mn    muM    1,7   11i,n7    21,m    32,n                      23,17I   3b,179
Idl   aid   lNW t                                  14o21   3nt           tJIU14,14a 11,4614,33    32,4t2    71 ,4  17,  1122   130,5    133,      1 J,731
lbii  u 1,176    3,1    1,321    5,17    3,833    6,02                                                        1,311    1,133    1,3       3,39    38,l5
31153 -3                                                        34       412       95       632 3Z               El      352    3,115     1,331    2,133
1.    pt1                                               n2,W    12,339   12,133    17,1Z4   31,113   15,3        1 11,13 17,136   119327   21,212  3I,1J3
la) oil ucLr                                        5,441    4,02    3,133       2,163    1,1       3,36,   3,313    3,64       3,93    4,M6 42,124
II b'nai   gaWts                                   14.534   15,11    31,241 b   12,13    16.3       9, *97   11,1151   11,15    32,131   14,1U6   21,337
11 ES                                              2,117    2,233    2,043    2,116    2,241    2,221    2,361    2,33 D       1,41    2,D        4,1733
1.  Itirre tllac                                           476   133,171      li1    3,D9      2,713      fin23 135        3,3       1,411    3,1       1,715
4. Factw   wiMce                                        13,211  11,6206   (6,52    15,6333   1,1131  13,1533  I1,2J3I   14,151 4I,D23    15,521)  16,3D31
[al 1lpib                                           1.73    1,169          1i      19       96          1    1m,61       95      3,033      333       iS
IUl Paymmt                                         1i4,21  16,7171   l5,4233   16,1411  13,31l  13,34301  3I,Z 13 15,131   I4,33I6   1,1171  17,2163
5.  [aital yaulm                                            17       3n        IT      1iN       II3       33       33       D30       13       1320      I3
6.   ulae 39 Earral acItu                               (2,711  17,1321  14,D7D1  33,1Q6   II,QI  13,tlS   12,3131  11,62J21   41,1011  11,2431   11,623
1.   tla t Iwimp tia matt                                  143      311 3     Ul       23        23       Z!J       3n       125       4"       me        99
6. Ml3m   IB LI  Isa                                     1,623    3,4       3,671    2,31ZX     . 1.32  1 ,3 2     ,119    1,136    3,49T        M      1,,23
1.  4t3   cltii lmutt                                      134t     431    2,61         42    3,31        610      3119I 3   bI0      I312      12171     355
33. Ci n , Irewn  4- * cr.asl                             9       3,3"    (3,13       (il3      14761       4        III      331       113      12      1341
I3. Net o,fficil rerm,                                  *,336    3,04    4,01    5,M32    3,166    3,132    3,132    2,363    3,131    3.7199    3,4
heoaes t. atlas of uranl
aqprs * WFS                                         4.4       LS 6      .1       U        3.1       1.7      3.1       3.0      4.1       6.1      2.7
hcrain Itn
*nt Iorna    nuts Of tie
hmhkq srstn  )h                                  36,622    6,123 8 ,46         9,313   16,566    1,E        1.U      9.3       6,13    33,221   16,287
html rnem mn m* ths 
amaI  aWatn  * tFS                                   7.3      *.2       LI2      7.7        .7      1. i       1       1.3       7.3      1.3       4.7
onuESI  CAPITAL - KU Ic
trns 1lBrmu.mts                                         2,61    4,132    1,96    3J,4    1.324
Cmcsmioul L.a.m                                          194       669      19        52        am
Illital                                               rl 7      42        541      tS        331
111                                                    a         7f       60        34       31
SHWr                                                     a        A         a       19        33
bucmcessamel LDna                                       3,319    3,513    4,331    3,13    2,123
olficial swpt csitlt                                   170      317    4C          414       121
[MD9                                                  314       so       418       m         n2 1
Otiw  mIlatI al                                         a       126       to       31        366
PrIvate-urce                                        31,39    2,336    3,228    t,44    I,3M
Weteeal OM6  id
:=1 ontatiup  I fi"ou r5,711    11,S5   21,647   22,32   23,643
ODffcial- er                                      116,599   11,113   12,636   12,34   14,971
.  d a 1m    l                                3,3F9    1,33    2,31O       2,13      ,3m
Prite-Imrce                                       5,111    7,402    9,64    1 ,649   31 1,6
ttl 6rud iet                                        11,37   12,0N    tl,771    113M    15,095
kht Sa,ce
Totel sue.  Payrmets                                2,047    2,2t6   2,54        3,253    4,013
of  IeJ. 133W                                   141       2J7      256       39       416
lntlrit                                            I"41  11,1451  11,235  1,J1N   13,63J1
P    ts as I nparts  It                                3.2     13.1      12.0     14.1      33.1
Totl 464t unice rat,o. I                              10.4 H     .4      31.1.7   39.4      2.l
rwq    Iteret *aIg at   Lai   113                         Li       1.2       4.3      9.3       LI
Iflacial-mme                                          7.E       LI3       1.7      I.6       7.4
FPnte-aww                                              3.4      9.3      L.        9.1       LS
wae natulrty aF No Lung 1       lya.)                    33.5     15.2       5.3     IL?       33.9
Ollicial-mrce                                         23.3     28.6     22.3      21.9      11.7
PriatrIlmire                                          11.1     11.1      14.3      9.2       7.6
An 2 of -bt 1 tetani     at    .4 39 I
bataify mtrnclwr  sO  Mtt msttaial                                        
Nhtrili  do   etnhi 5 pars                                                             3
atwitln  dee nEi. 10    s V7
litist stnttcwe .44          MLtnL dua
daent do motion mirst  yrn                                                            4.3
1          p h  n    ril-to-3uc  fiscal yaw   ta.
i  ItncIldes SlwF  Ssl         if   mit mai lbaas i. adldlan ti onfifkd  resis.
ic  tEtlcl   priate   israa turd Ism  a  LS uipaisia.
Id it _ad o rpwi
/I    ft inwpts trets am  gram bints.  apets  lmmi  oroc. Mt sgervac  arisen  preeay t id of                    didicat  lam t. 139,
Of  WIoden  privat hiaamy_  nt        ow 1s
Ent hm al d PIcifi  b qimal Oflice
my 1- (1)



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Forty Loans and fortyrfour Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,971.86   777.89
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             109.00       -        22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            50.50       -         10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       53.60       -         9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00       -         75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00       -        37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.49       -         4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -       12.00       5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           92.00       -        23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -       37.60       5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -       39.00      19.26
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00       -        36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            30.00       -        15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -       30.00        0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00       -        65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               25.00       -         10.51
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00       -        31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00       -         10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00       -         11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00       -         19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            134.00       -         80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -         66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -         39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00       -          9.34
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                       Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                  185.00       -        65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                        85.00       -         32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                        79.59       -         64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                                25.00       -         21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.00       -         15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java              70.00       -         36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution               66.00       -         31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI             55.50       -         43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                   25.00       -         14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering         5.50       -          4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                 300.00       -        223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII           138.90       -        136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                              27.00       -         23.25
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation                22.40       -         19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                            101.00       -         54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development              30.00       -         24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                         30.60       -         17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                 208.90       -        131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                              63.50       -         59.14
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                            107.40       -        105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                              279.00       -        171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                    63.30       -         52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar           79.20       -         47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                    43.00       -         34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.              89.00       -         60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                            240.00       -        185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                        39.25       -         35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development            204.65       -         96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                       65.00       -         62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                              210.00       -        196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00       -         19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                    78.00      -         73.58



-30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                       Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation            11.30       -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II             131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                              46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)           39.00       -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                                 156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development                 147.00       -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                   43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                    111.00       -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V Ia                           160.00       -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training                93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smaltholder Cattle Development /a              32.00       -        32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a               43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health          33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support Ia           33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation Ia           166.00       -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits           8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                    -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                      7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b          7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                            4,053.25
/a Not yet effective.
lb Prior to exchange adjustment.
Ic Includes loans not yet effective.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                                 Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                              Type of business          -- (US$ million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                         Textiles                    2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles                    2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                 Cable                      2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      4.5    L.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel              Tourism                    9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                   2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                    Electronics                0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                           Dev. fin. co.               -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                      -     1.1      1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      0.4     -       0.4
1977    P.T. KAmaltex                       Textiles                    1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                         Textiles                   0.9     -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                 Capital market             4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries        Glass dinnerware          11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia         Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing           Capital market             5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement                    25.0      -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                      143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                          113.4    7.3   120.7
Total held by IFC                                             30.2   12.3    42.5



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission:                  May 1984
(b)  Preparation Mission:                     November 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                       April 1985
(d)  Negotiations:                            June 1986
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           December 1986
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
COI/PERUMTEL shall ensure that:
(a) financial consultants, with terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank, would be appointed by January 1, 1987.
The consultants' final report would be submitted to the Bank by June
30, 1988 and would include recommendations on actions needed by
PERUMTEL to maintain the financial MIS. PERUMTEL would discuss the
recommendations with the Bank and implement the agreed recommenda-
tions by December 31, 19B8 (para. 46(a));
(b) a tariff study would be furnished to the Bank by July 31, 1987 and a
plan of action for implementing its recommendations prepared by
December 31, 19B7, and thereafter implemented (para. 46 (b));
(c) PERUMTEL would select the trainees and foreign training institutions
for fellowships in consultation with the Bank by December 31, 1986
(para. 46(c));
(d) a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PERUMTEL which is
acceptable to the Bank, would be signed prior to loan effectiveness
(para. 48);
(e) the PMC contract would be signed prior to loan effectiveness
(para. 51); and
(f) the final report of PMC would be furnished to the Bank by
December 31, 1989 and a plan of action for implementing further
institutional strengthening measures would be furnished to the Bank
by March 31, 1990, and thereafter implemented (para. 51).



INDONU(F
tiLECOMMUNCAflON1JS TECHNCAL ANSTCE PROJECT
organizatonoil Chart or Peumide
Rr0. COCIOMW
F-=Ll     F~l :-I- Fl~
~~~~~~~It,               Ii       i    I,   II   I  .  I'  I . 
r~ ~~ ~~~~~n I.  ira  lr.i                     .'
EEl 1H1 1H1 1R 1W1 1X 3 1t1 1k1 L+l EAl [k1 1Xa1  [  91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PERUMTEL Income Statements, 1980-85
(Current Rp. Billions)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
1980     1981      1982     1983    1984    1985 /a
Operating Revenue
Telephone                157.86   203.47   285.80   354.86  379.51   494.43
Telex                     18.96    24.47    20.21    29.25   34.61    57.30
Telegraph                  5.53     6.09      5.21     5.95    6.55      8.64
Others                    11.65    14.39    13.25    18.66   23.38    22.99
Total Revenue              194.00   248.42    24.47   408.72  444.05   583.36
Operating Expenses
Personnel                 36.79    53.41    70.89    79.26  105.31   114.11
Material and transport   23.25    31.08    40.34    51.27   73.31    79.44
Repair and maintenance   24.04    40.35    43.06    76.38   89.31    96.78
Depreciation              44.07    72.51   104.67   125.93  123.30   150.14
Others                     1.83     2.16      4.74      1.17    2.21     2.39
Total Expenses             129.98   199.51   263.70   334.01  393.44   442.86
Operating Income            64.02    48.91    60.77    74.71   50.61   140.50
Interest                    10.06    12.15    22.91    30.95   30.47    33.19
Non-operating
income (loss)             (16.20)   (0.38)   13.69    18.28   50.94    57.80
Pre-tax Income              37.76    36.38    51.55    62.04   71.08   165.11
Income Tax /b /c            16.89    16.37    23.14    26.12    1.27        5.90
Net Income                  20.87    20.01    28.41    35.92   69.81   159.21
Rate of return /d             -         6        6         B       8        22
/a   Preliminary results.
/b   Accelerated depreciation used for tax purposes starting 1984.
/c   Income tax for 1985 is an estimate.
Id   Defined as net income before interest and non-operating income (loss) on
average net fixed assets plus work-in-progress.



ANNEX V
- 35 -                          Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PERUMTEL Balance Sheets, 190-85
(Current Rp Billions)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984    1985/a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                       107.47   183.84   194.01   140.94   162.84    65.47
Short-term investments        -        -         -       50.00   167.02   384.02
Accounts receivables        73.59    80.07   112.58   156.07   149.48   186.93
Inventories                 20.59    34.03    70.08    72.71    70.50    45.61
Others                      19.53    34.56    57.26    86.17    68.15   125.01
Total Current Assets         221.18   332.50   433.93   505.89   617.99   807.04
Cross Assets                 572.61   579.23   733.19   820.33   894.63   953.61
Accumulated depreciation    87.66   139.02   205.73   292.31   387.99   500.07
Net fixed assets             484.95   440.21   527.46   528.02   506.64   453.54
Work in progress              60.47   111.13    81.69    66.80   108.78   174.24
Other assets                  11.13    10.57    13.02       0.56      0.05      0.00
Investments                    3.46      2.72     2.58      5.76      7.13      0.00
Deferred charges             143.99   145.28   132.68   102.91    79.46    43.13
Total Assets                 925.18 1,042.41 1,191.36 1,209.91 1,320.05 1,477.95
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable             9.30    16.51    38.43    39.33    54.35    39.08
Other payables              49.43    85.20   125.90   140.97   121.87   124.87
Current portion of L-T-D   7.07    11.02    54.18    55.33    56.46    59.89
Total Current Liabilities   65.80   112.73   218.51   235.63   232.68   223.84
Other liabilities             45.22    61.61   127.87   147.99    79.69    44.26
Long term debt               477.32   516.95   476.79   421.12   476.81   537.07
Equity
Capital                       86.00    86.00    86.00    86.00   350.00   350.00
Reserves and retained
earnings                   250.84   265.12   282.19   319.17   187.87   322.78
Total equity                 336.84   351.12   368.19   405.17   530.87   672.18
Total liabilities            925.18 1,042.41 1,19136 1,209.91 1,320.05 1,477.95
Current ratio (times)          3.36      2.95     1.99      2.15      2.66      3.61
Debt/equity (Z)                59        60       56        51        47        44
Ia Preliminary results.



-36 -                            ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PERUMTEL Funds Flow Statements, 1981-85
(Current Rp. Billions)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985/a
Sources
Net income before interest                 32.16   51.32   66.87  100.28  192.40
Depreciation                               72.51  104.67  125.93  123.30  150.14
Internal cash generation               104.67  155.99  192.80  223.58  342.54
Loans and equity                           79.84   95.94   55.40  128.45  192.20
Other                                       6.89    5.64    9.05    8.98   10.31
Total Sources                         191.40  257.57  257.25  361.01  545.05
AppLications
Capital construction                      58.94  123.71   56.85  123.78  124.44
Appropriations and others                 44.90   61.12   59.28   35.25  129.62
Interest                                  12.15   22.91   30.95   30.47   33.19
Loan principal                              7.07   11.02   54.18   55.33   56.46
Total Debt Service                     19.22   33.93   85.13   85.80   89.65
Change in Working Capital                 68.34   38.81   55.99  116.18  201.32
Total Applications                    191.40  257.57  257.25  361.0l  545.05
Net Internal Cash/Cap. Construction         1.78    1.26    3.39    1.81    2.75
Net Internal Cash/Cap. Construction         1.45    0.99    1.89    1.11    2.03
(After Debt Service)
Debt Service Ratio                          5.45    4.60    2.26    2.61    3.82
/a Preliminary results.



-37 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Standard disbursement
Estimated disbursement                    profile for technical
Bank         Semester    Cumulative   Z of         assistance projects Bankwide
FY/semester   US$million   US$million   Total    Cum. US$milIlion   Z of total
FY87 - 'st         0.5          0.5           3            0.7               5
2nd         1.5          2.0          14            1.4             10
FY88 - 1st         2.0          4.0          28            2.5              17
2nd         2.5          6.5         45             3.6             25
FY89 - Ist         2.5          9.0          62            4.9              34
2nd         2.0         11.0          76            6.2             43
FY90 - 1st         1.5         12.5          86            7.7              53
2nd         1.5         14.0          97            9.0             62
FY91 - 1st         0.5         14.5         100           10.2              70
2nd                                                11.2             77
FY92 - 1st                                                12.0             83
2nd                                                12.8             88
FY93 - 1st                                                13.3             92
2nd                                                13.8             95
FY94 - 1st                                                14.1              97
2nd                                                14.5            100



INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1985              1986              1987              1988              1199               1940
QUARtER   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
A PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
CONSULTANCY                              -    -           -    - - - -                                      
B. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION  |   |
SYSTEM CONSULTANCY-
C. TARIiFF STUJDY- - - - -
D. TRANING FELLOWSHIP              _        *        _        _   _   _   _   _   _
Legend:
v Bid Annoucement
V   Commence Assignment
+   Commence Study/Training
*   Completion of Assignment
iorld Bcark-3=78
' I H



IBRD  19213
. 9      TE   HAILAND               IS6                                  I                                                                                                    i          PHILIPPINES
-  . \   \   \   Sowntl1  China                                                                                                                PHILIPPINEST\  ,/                                    I N DO N E S I A
PERUMTEL'S ZONES AND REGIONS
..    Meder, .  IE -ALA89A   1                                z;_*,dr                                                                                                                                                                                     IIv    Zone Numbers
Z-M  Zone Boundaries
txII r4iolon Numbers
iIor. Boundaries
*  Region Offioes
01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            International Boundarieol  1
C.                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALIMANTAN.~''                                                                                                                                                                  ~Jppr
.KA                                           /                             ' SUJLA WE     t         J                                                                                                         .
Oan,.rberu                                                  ~2iCE                                                        M                                                    /AN |R A V lA      j S
Ujunpanoden..pndo                                                                        
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iv                                                                                                                                                                        v                                                                xI
Ind                                                                                                                                                                  acio /.1
fflC,Cfl GCeC'fl   V~ill                                                                                                                                                                                                so
-   * ' * * " * '- *~~~~~~ *                                               e n p e s e r     S I J M B A W A   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   U W A   0M B
100-  lor              112-                                                                                               1f4- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lO136w
AUGUST 1085



I



