Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7382-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
OF SDR 15.2 MILLION
(US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
July 5, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate of May 2000)
Currency Unit  =    Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ =    FMG 7,213
SYSTEM OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric                    US Equivalent
I meter (m)               3.28 feet (ft.)
I square kilometer (kM2)  0.386 square miles (sq. mi.)
I hectare                 2,47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (m ton)      2,204 pounds (lb.)
MALAGASY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL               Adaptable Program Loan
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CiSco             School District (Circonscription Scolaire)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CNC               National Coordinating Committee for Cyclone Damage
(Comnite National de Coordination des Degdts Cycloniques)
CRESED II         Second Education Sector Development Project
(Prcoet de Developpement du Secteur de l'Education)
CRESAN II         Second Health Sector Support Project
(Deuxieme Projet d'Appui au Secteur de la Sante)
CNS               National Relief Council (Conseil National de Secours)
CSB               Primary Health Centre (Centre de Sante de Base)
EPZ               Export Processing Zone
EU                European Union
FID               Social Fund (Fonds dI'ntervention pour le Developpement)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
IDA               Intemnational Development Association
IMF               Intemnational Monetary Fund
INSTAT            National Statistical Institute (Institut National de Statistiques)
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PRGF              Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SAC-2             Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SEECALINE         Second Community Nutrition project
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo, AFR
Country Director:    Hafez Ghanem, AFC08
Sector Manager:      Larry Hinkle, AFTM3
Task Team Leaders:   Jesko Hentschel, Christos Kostopoulos,
Bienvenu Rajaonson



ii           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT FOR SAC-2
Credit Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Madagascar
Amount and Term:           SDR 15.2 million (US$20 million equivalent), on standard
IDA terms, with a 40-year maturity, including a 1 0-year
grace period.
Objectives and Description:  The supplemental credit is an integral part of IDA's strategy
to help Madagascar respond to the impact of the three
successive cyclones. The proposed supplemental credit
would provide Madagascar with fast-disbursing foreign
exchange to partially compensate for lower export earnings
and higher import needs in 2000 and 2001 due to three
cyclones that devastated parts of the island in February,
March and April 2000. These have created an unanticipated
financing need that would endanger the government's reform
effort that is otherwise proceeding on track. Counterpart
funds generated will assist the government in its planned
reconstruction effort.
Benefits and Risks:        The main benefits will be to assist Madagascar in overcoming
an unanticipated financing need, thereby maintaining macro-
economic stability and meeting government's pressing
reconstruction requirements. Possible risks relate to the
financing need being larger than anticipated, capacity
constraints in the public sector, and the non-transparent use of
funds. Appropriate supervision and monitoring will address
these risks.
Poverty Category:          Not applicable. The poor were the most severely affected by
the cyclones. Though not targeted at the poor, the credit
would assist the poor by helping the government contain
inflation, providing foreign exchange for key imports
(especially rice), and contributing resources for the restoration
of basic services in the cyclone-affected areas.
Disbursement:              The supplemental credit is in one tranche. The government
intends to draw on the available funds in two installments.
The full credit amount (US$20 million) is expected to be
disbursed by December 31, 2001.
Maps:                     IBRD 20035R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
supplemental development credit to the Republic of Madagascar for SDR 15.2 million
(US$20 million equivalent). The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years. The credit supplements the on-going Second Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit 3218-MAG). The supplemental credit aims to ensure that Madagascar has
sufficient resources to cover an unanticipated financing need arising from the three
cyclones that hit the country from February to April 2000. The counterpart funds will
provide budget support for the government's reconstruction effort.
I.   Summary
2.   Madagascar was struck by three consecutive cyclones - Eline, Gloria and Hudah - in
quick succession in February, March and April 2000.1 The island is highly exposed to
storms that form over the Indian Ocean. On average, three storms hit the island per year as
was the case in 2000. However, this year's impact both in terms of human suffering as
well as physical damages has been the most severe in years with damages even higher than
those estimated to have been caused by the 1994 cyclones Daisy and Geralda. In 2000,
more than 1 million inhabitants were affected by the cyclones, resulting in over 200 people
dead and over 400,000 people in need of emergency assistance. Winds and heavy rains
caused serious damage to homes, schools and health centers. Thousands of hectares of
forests were destroyed, and roads were swept away, isolating many villages. Destruction
of a large share of the rice, vanilla and coffee harvests will substantially increase import
needs of rice and lower export proceeds. The human and environmental impact of the
cyclones is considerable, especially since it came on top of a drought in the south of the
country that has lasted for months and has the potential for causing food shortages in the
next few months.
3.   Madagascar is a low-income country with a GNP per capita of US$250. Per capita
income fell by almost 50 percent (in real terms) over the past three decades. Today, life
expectancy, health and education indicators are at or below the unsatisfactory averages for
sub-Saharan Africa. Literacy stands at 46 percent and almost half (44 percent) of children
under the age of three are stunted. Access to basic public services is scarce. In 1997, 75
percent of the Malagasy population were income-poor with rural poverty most severe. The
government's central objective is to steadily reduce the incidence of poverty to 35 percent
by 2015. Recently, the government drafted a preliminary version of an anti-poverty
strategy which will serve as a basis for development of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP).
Although Gloria is classified as a tropical storm, for purposes of presentation we do not distinguish it
from the two cyclones, Eline and Hudah.



2
4.   The cyclone damages in 2000 are estimated to be US$137 million (about 4 percent of
GDP), of which US$76 million are private damages and US$61 million are public. The
cyclone caused income losses in the order of US$77 million for 2000, or approximately 2
percent of GDP. Public reconstruction needs amount to US$92 million, expected to be
covered over a two-year period, July 2000 - June 2002.2 These public reconstruction costs,
losses in export revenues, as well as additional import needs of the private sector, are
estimated to result in financing needs of US$75 million in 2000 with needs in 2001 of
US$65 million and in :2002 of US$41 million. The financing gap in the year 2000 is
expected to be filled by additional debt relief from the Paris Club (US$19 million),
multilateral and bilateral donors (US$23 million), and the IMF (US$33 million). It is
anticipated that IDA resources - including the proposed SAC-2 supplemental - will help
the government in its reconstruction effort and will allow the private sector to play an
important role in overcorming cyclone-related setbacks.
5.   The government requested  assistance from  IDA  to  respond  to  the direct
reconstruction needs of the emergency as well as to mitigate the potential macro-economic
impacts. IDA's response includes (a) technical assistance to the government in assessing
the damage and its implact; (b) portfolio restructuring to meet short- and medium-term
reconstruction needs; (c) supplemental financing for the Third Social Fund Project and for
the Second Structural AdLjustment Credit; and (d) assistance to the government to develop a
long-tern cyclone vulnerability mitigation strategy. This Report spells out IDA's overall
response to the emergency and details the proposed supplemental financing to the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit.  The supplement to the Third Social Fund Project is
presented in a separate Memorandum of the President (Report No. P7380-MAG),
presented to the Board of Executive Directors at the same time as this Report.
II.  The Impact of Cyclones Eline, Gloria and Hudah
6.   Cyclones Eline, Gloria and Hudah.  Cyclones Eline, Gloria and Hudah made
landfall on the east coast of Madagascar on February 16, March 2 and April 2, 2000,
respectively. Depending on the level of human impact and physical damage assessed,
between 9 and 20 districts (of 111 total) were classified by the government as heavily
affected, with at least 33 more classified as moderately affected having experienced a
medium impact through winds, rain and flooding. Eline, the first to hit, struck the central
east part of the country. The second cyclone, Gloria, struck the northeast coast and snaked
southwards. The third cyclone, Hudah, made landfall in the same area as Gloria, but
proceeded west across the northern tip of the country. Nearly all of the national territory
was at least lightly affected by at least one of the three cyclones.
7.   In all of the most affected districts, agriculture is the main source of income with
more than 90 percent of the workforce employed there. The northernmost, heavily-
affected districts of Antalaha, Andapa, Maroantsetra and Sambava comprise the backbone
of Madagascar's cash crop production of vanilla, coffee and cloves. Subsistence farrning
2   Public reconstruction needs exceed public damages because reconstruction will be at cyclone-proof
standards in several sectors. This is in-accordance with the standard construction practice of the
current sector investment programs in the health and education sector, supported by IDA.



3
in maize, rice and manioc dominates activity in the other hardest hit areas in the East of the
country to the south of Tamatave. Although sparsely populated, the affected areas have a
low average landholding of around 0.4 hectare. Over 90 percent of the population lives in
simple bamboo dwellings which were largely destroyed by the cyclones.
8.   The hardest hit districts had the highest stunting rate of children, the lowest density
of doctors per person, and the lowest access rates to infrastructure such as electricity or
latrines. Table I presents several living standard indicators aggregated across different
areas according to the strength by which they were hit by the cyclones. Although the most
heavily-impacted areas do not rate the worst in all indicator categories, the stunting rate
and doctor availability rates suggest severe deprivation in these areas.
Table 1: Social Indicators of Affected Areas
Stunting Rate   Literacy Rate  Doctors   Electricity Access,   Sanitary Access
(percent children  (percent adult  per 1000   percent     (private toilet),
below 3)        population)                               percent
Seecaline, 1998  Census, 1993  M1. Plan,  Cens-us, 1993   Census, 1993
1998
Heavy Impact (9)    51.1          62.7         0.88       1.9               31.5
Moderate Impact    43.3           55.3         1.30       3.5               20.1
(44)
Light Impact (32)    46.7         68.5         1.79      10.3               39.6
No Impact (16)   40.9             44.2         1.21       3.7               18.8
National Average    44.5          57.1         1.39       5.4               26.1
Source: CNS database.
9.   Human and Poverty Impact. The direct human impact of the consecutive cyclones
was high. More than 200 people lost their lives, more than 1 million people were affected
directly as their houses were damaged or destroyed, and parts or all of their agricultural
production lost. Of these, more than 400,000 were in need of immediate and urgent help as
they had to flee the destroyed area or were isolated from the outside.
10.  The impact on the already poor rural population in the affected districts is very
severe and requires targeted reconstruction activities. Income and asset losses to the
economy are small on the aggregate but with the poor bearing the brunt of these income
losses, it means that many of them risk even greater poverty. The cyclone impacted the
poor in the following ways:
(i)   Asset Losses: It is estimated that about 60 percent of houses in the most affected
areas were totally or partially destroyed with hundred thousands of people losing all
or a large part of what they owned - houses, livestock, tools, and other belongings.
Although houses were small and simple, material costs and time invested in
reconstruction put an enormous strain on household resources. To buy materials like
nails, many families will need to save for weeks or even months. In the cash crop
area in the North-East, vanilla and coffee trees were uprooted by winds or died in the
floods. They represented the most valuable asset for small-holder farmers. In the
rice growing areas, destruction of irrigation systems will lower yields in the next
years if not rehabilitated quickly.



4
(ii) Income Losses. Wit]hout support, a large percentage of families in the affected areas
will fall even deeper into poverty. Especially in the tree crop sector, incomes will
only recuperate in two to three years. In the short-run, prices for staples such as rice
are likely to increase (especially if a shortfall of foreign exchange were to lead to an
exchange rate devaluation), further lowering real incomes of the poor. If the washed-
away rural and provincial roads remain impassable, trade of agricultural produce and
integration in the off-farm labor markets will be limited.
(iii) Higher Health Risks: With a number of health centers as well as roads destroyed,
access to both preventive and clinical services is impaired and needs urgent attention.
A post-cyclone survey conducted by the National Relief Council (CNS) indicates that
malnutrition rates in several districts are on the rise. With water levels receding,
water contamination is reduced. The incidence of malaria might increase, however,
in the coming months.
(iv) Disruption of the Education Cycle: In the ten most affected educational districts, it is
estimated that schools for 223,000 students at all levels had been destroyed.
Although many villages and towns set up provisional teaching facilities in make-shift
halls or tents, the cyclones disrupted the school year at a very intense time of
learning.
11.  Overall, a key priority of the government and its partners in the short run is to
mitigate the urgent needs oi the poor. With many private assets of the poor destroyed and
income earning possibilities impaired, it is crucial to rehabilitate roads, water systems,
education and health facilities as well as ensure seed distribution and nutritional aid. If the
government and donors do not respond swiftly and effectively to this emergency, the poor
of affected regions may continue to suffer long after the floods recede, in turn
compromising the accumulation of human capital required for Madagascar's sustained
growth.
12. Environmental Impact. The cyclones had an extensive physical impact on the
environment.  The area of forest heavily damaged is estimated to be 7,000 km2. In
Antalaha, where cyclone :Hudah made landfall, roughly a quarter of the trees are
completely uprooted and a half lost major branches. Many of these darnages occurred in
the largest national park of Madagascar, the Masoala environmental park. There and in
other hard-hit districts, deforested areas are scarred by numerous landslides. The impact of
the cyclones on biodiversity and the many endemic plants and animal species is unknown
to date and will require careful monitoring.
13.  The main threat of the cyclones to the environment is linked to poverty as many
affected families are in search of food. Burning of the fallen wood on hillsides provides
rice land for two years before the soil becomes too depleted for further cultivation. This
does not allow natural regeneration of the forest and destroys the habitat of many species.
Also, the deforested hillsides left behind by the slash and burn practices increase the impact
of future cyclones because deforested hillsides are more prone to erosion and lose their
water-retention capacity. Hence, in deforested areas the impacts of cyclones are larger due
to increased flooding and mnudslides. Rapid relief and reconstruction efforts of vital



5
infrastructure would therefore also- limit the pressure on the environment in the affected
areas.
14. Damages and Income Losses. In close cooperation with the Government, other
donors and several NGOs, IDA conducted a preliminary damage assessment (see Box 1 in
Section III). Total infrastructure and asset damages are estimated at US$137 million or
slightly less than 4 percent of GDP (US$76 million private, US$61 million public). Table
2 provides a breakdown of these damage costs by sector. Roads, bridges, ports, railroads,
and two airports record the highest damage in the public sector with US$31 million. In the
social sectors, 1727 primary schools, 173 secondary schools, 82 primary health centers
(CSB1) and 86 district health facilities (CSB2) were damaged or destroyed. In the
agricultural sector, irrigation systems were especially affected in the eastern part of the
country around Tamatave. Private asset damage fell largely on households as they lost
houses, belonging (including livestock) and vanilla, coffee and clove trees.
Table 2: Asset Damage Estimates, by Public and Private Sector (US$ millions)'
Sector            Damage Estimate                 Reconstruction Need
Private                  76                             n.a.2
- Industry                9                             n.a.2
- Housing & Assets       26                             na2.
- Vanilla, coffee, clove    41                          41
trees
Public                   61                              92
- Education              11                              33
- Health                  1                               5
- Agriculture            12                              15
- Transport              31                              31
- Water & Elect.          2                               3
- Public Buildings        3                               3
- Prevention              1                               2
Source: Joint Damage and Reconstruction Assessment (May 2000).
1    To convert the local currency cost component of damages and reconstruction needs into US dollars, a uniform
exchange rate of I US$ equal to FMG 7,213 was used (month average for May 2000, Intemational Financial
Statistics from the IMF). Since then the Malagasy Franc has appreciated by around 12 percent (till June 30, 2000).
This would lower the dollar estimate of the local cost component of the damage and reconstruction estimate which is
not above one third of total damages/reconstruction costs in any sector.
2    Reconstruction needs for industry and housing (private sector) were not assessed since these assets have to a very
large extent already been restored by firms and households.
15.  Total income losses (60 percent of which fall on the farming sector) are estimated at
US$77 million in 2000, representing approximately 2 percent of GDP. Table 3 presents
sector estimates of income losses before taking into account the reconstruction effort. As
private reconstruction is underway and a large part of public reconstruction is expected to
be completed next year, income losses in 2001 should be limited to US$31 million. These
income losses do not directly translate into a lower GDP growth rate as private and public
reconstruction (partly foreign financed) will give a boost to specific sectors, especially
construction and transport. Overall, growth of GDP in 2000 is expected to only fall 0.5
percent short of expectations, from the pre-cyclone prediction of 5.3 percent to a post-
cyclone forecast of 4.8 percent.



6
Table 3: Income Losses due to Cyclones, by Sector,
2000-2002 (before reconstruction) (VS$ million)
Sector               2000       2001         2002
Industry               6           2          0
Agriculture           47          19          12
Of which
-rice                21           8          0
-manioc               8           0          0
-maize                2           0          0
-vanilla              9           8          8
-coffee               4           3          3
-  cloves              2           1          1
-pepper               0           0          0
- livestock            I          0          0
Services (incl Transport)  24      10         1
Total                 77          31         14
Source: staff calculations.
16.  Reconstruction  Needs.   The same multi-organizational working groups that
appraised damages also estimated reconstruction needs and developed sector
reconstruction strategies. E3stimated reconstruction needs in the public sector total US$92
million (refer to Table 2). Reconstruction cost estimates in the education (US$33 million)
and health (US$5 million) sectors include costs associated with rehabilitation to cyclone-
proof standards which also confirms to current standard practice of construction in these
sectors. In the transport sector, reconstruction plans cover immediate repair works. A
multi-donor funded transport rehabilitation effort is planned over the next years that will
upgrade a large part of the national and provincial road network. In the agricultural sector,
the Government plans to distribute about US$3 million in seeds, in addition to repairing
the damaged irrigation systems. Reconstruction needs of the private sector have in large
part been already met as most private households and firms have rebuilt their assets.
17. The government's priority is to solve major transport bottlenecks at the beginning of
the reconstruction effort. S;uch priority is important to reach now-isolated areas. It could
also have an important positive effect on containing price rises of food (especially rice) and
construction. Trucking prices have risen as high as 30 to 50 percent in the affected areas
since the cyclones because of the damage to roads and bridges.
18. Economic Impact. Ihe primary macroeconomic impact of the cyclone has been due
to losses in earnings to the private sector (producers, intermediaries, and exporters) and
foreign exchange pressure for additional cyclone-related imports in 2000 and beyond. As
mentioned above, reduced income earnings are around 2 percent of GDP. In the absence
of a concerted reconstruction effort, GDP per capita (which grew at a rate of 2.0 percent in
1999) would level off after four years of positive growth. The Government is committed
to the reconstruction effort and has programmed additional capital goods expenditures of



7
US$23 million in 2000. As stated above, this and additional private sector reconstruction
activity is expected to contain the reduction in GDP growth due to the cyclones to 0.5
percent.
19. On the external side, the shortfall in exports and additional import needs are expected
to translate into a current account worsening of US$75 million for 2000 (equivalent to 45
percent of foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank). The export shortfall will be
primarily due to reduced vanilla exports (US$12.9 millions), although the cyclone has also
affected exports of coffee (US$5.4 million), and cloves (US$2.8 million). Additional
imports reflect public and private sector needs, especially additional needs for the import
of rice (US$8 million). The actual commercial imports of rice will have to be closely
monitored in the next months since production losses capture only damages due to the
cyclones. If the drought in the south of the country continues, it is possible that foreign
exchange needs for food imports might be substantially higher.3
20. Extra import needs also stem from Government's reconstruction effort and private
sector needs. The current account balance (excluding grants) is expected to deteriorate
from -7.3 percent to -9.1 percent of GDP in 2000. The impact of the cyclones on exports
and imports is expected to last until 2002. Given the country's low level of reserves,
US$226 million or 9.6 weeks of imports, it would be impossible for Madagascar to meet
these additional demands without external support.
21. On the fiscal side, the US$92 million net public reconstruction investments are
programmed over the period July 2000 - June 2002. To meet these reconstruction targets,
the government plans to use 25 percent of that amount in the latter half of 2000. This
would increase programmed public investment by about 10 percent. To meet such higher
investment expenditures, government revenues can unlikely be increased as they are
already set at ambitious levels. Part of the needs can be obtained through reprogramming
planned expenditures and government will raise 20 percent of the public reconstruction
needs through such expenditure switching measures in the years 2001 and 2002. Apart
from foreign financing, the other options to cover the unanticipated financing needed carry
risks. Increased domestic borrowing could raise interest rates even further, stifling private
investment at a time when it is badly needed. Resorting to overall credit expansion - apart
from being limited by the existing IMF program -- could increase inflationary pressures.
22. National and International Response. After the first two cyclones, the government
launched an international call for help on March 7, 2000, to solicit emergency assistance
for the most affected populations and support for the rehabilitation of damaged and
destroyed infrastructure. The National Relief Council (CNS) coordinated the relief effort
while the National Coordinating Committee for Cyclone Damage (CNC) organized the
damage assessment and reconstruction effort. The emergency relief program comprised
food assistance, distribution of basic essential goods and spot repairs of basic
infrastructure. About US$12.8 million of external assistance has been provisionally
committed for this relief effort. The French army made deliveries of rice, equipment and
3   A joint report by the Food and Agricultural Organization and the World Food Program released on
June 1, 2000, warns of a serious potential food shortage due to the drought in the south of the island.



8
relief material (blankets, imedical supplies, cholera kits, soap, plastic rolls) as well as a
four-wheel drive vehicle. The World Food Program (WFP) distributed food and basic
emergency necessities in the hardest hit and isolated areas (US$2.9 million). Medecins
sans Frontieres also went immediately to the most affected areas to provide medical
services and monitor health conditions. NGOs such as CARE and Agro Action are
distributing seeds. Other donors and NGOs are active in rescue and relief efforts,
providing humanitarian aid and undertaking damage assessments in affected sites.
Additional food aid and community nutrition activities will be needed over the next few
months in the hardest hit areas to offset income losses. A working group led by the
government estimates these needs at US$9 million.
III. IDA's Response to the Cyclones
23.  After the cyclones hit Madagascar, the Bank received a request from the government
for emergency assistance.  In close coordination with its international and national
partners, IDA developed the following multi-pronged response to the emergency situation.
Based on IDA's experience with emergency assistance to date, the response addresses
Madagascar's short, medium, and long-term needs.
.)    Joint Damage and Reconstruction Assessment
24.  In response to the government's request, IDA sent a technical mission to Madagascar
that established the need for further IDA involvement and initiated a joint damage and
reconstruction assessment. In May, a large IDA mission evaluated and completed the joint
assessment of damages and reconstruction needs together with the government and several
international and national partners (Box 1).
Box 1: Partnership Coordination
IDA coordinated its response to the cylones very closely with its partner organizations.
(i)   During the first IDA mission in April 2000, a donors' meeting agreed that working groups in seven
sectors be established comprising health, nutrition, education, transport, agriculture, private sector and
macroeconomic issues, and vulnerability mitigation.
(ii)   After the preliminary danmage assessment was completed, a steering committee was formed comprising
the UN organizations, the World Bank and the Government of Madagascar. This steering committee
organized a two-day conference at which all established working groups appraised the preliminary
damage assessment.  This conference was held on May 22-23 in Antananarivo.  Besides the
Government, the UN system and IDA, participants included the African Development Bank, the
European Community, several bilateral donors and several NGOs like CARE and Medecins sans
Frontieres. In addition to assessing damages and reconstruction needs, the working groups also
discussed programming and phasing of sectoral investments as well as the potential contributions of
different international donors.
(iii)  The steering committee included the outputs from the working groups and produced a final document
"Evaluation des degats et Programme de Reconstruction durable post cyclonique pour Madagascar" on
May 26. This document is to be published by the steering committee in July.
(iv)  In addition to bilateral d[iscussions with many of its partners, IDA based the restructuring of the
existing portfolio and the design of its supplemental credits on the joint damage and reconstruction
assessment.



9
ii)  Portfolio Restructuring to Meet Short and Medium-Term Reconstruction Needs
25.  Given the need for timely financial support, restructuring the existing portfolio, as
opposed to designing a new multi-sector cyclone relief investment project, is the fastest
and most flexible way to meet Madagascar's reconstruction needs. Four on-going IDA
operations in Madagascar will be restructured (Table 4) within the existing legal
frameworks in order to provide financing for rehabilitation needs. The main objectives of
these projects will not change.
Table 4: IDA Financing of Reconstruction Effort
Through Existing Portfolio, by Sector/Project
(US$ millions)
SECTORIPROJECT            TOTAL         FINANCING BY FY
IDA        2001         2002
FINANCING
Education/CRESED II (Cr. 3046-MAG)  11.0         4.0         7.0
HealthICRESANHI (Cr. 3302-MAG)       2.3         1.0         1.3
Nutrition/SEECALINE (Cr. 3060-MAG)   2.5         1.3         1.2
Transport APL-1 (Cr. 33640-MAG)      5.5         2.3         3.2
TOTAL                               21.3         8.6         12.7
(a)  Second Education Sector Development Project (CRESED II): IDA funds in the
amount of US$11 million (out of a total credit amount of US$65 million) will be
made available for reconstruction of primary and secondary schools in the six most-
affected districts located in the provinces of Antsiranana and Toamasina. CRESED II
will finance the reconstruction of around 414 classrooms in FY2001 and 700
classrooms in FY2002. To facilitate a rapid response, the following actions will be
undertaken: (i) simplification of the project's manual of procedures, (ii) strengthening
of management capacity at the central and district levels, (iii) certification and
adoption of a uniform anti-cyclone classroom design depending on the region and
characteristics of the school, and (iv) strengthening of financial management.
(b)  Second Health Sector Support Project (CRESAN II): An amount of US$2.3 million
will be made available by CRESAN II (total credit amount of US$40 million) mostly
for the eleven health districts located in Toamasina and Antsiranana. Of this, US$1.5
million will be used for large reconstruction or rehabilitation works, such as health
centers and hospitals, and US$800,000, for small repairs works. Actions will be
undertaken to accelerate credit effectiveness (scheduled for the first quarter of FY01)
so that the emergency program can start as soon as possible.
(c)  Second Community Nutrition Project (SEECALINE):  With the possibility of
increasing malnutrition due to the cyclones, community nutrition activities under
SEECALINE (total credit amount US$27.6 million) will be extended to the ten most-
affected districts. IDA will make US$2.5 million available to this end. It is
anticipated that cyclone-related activities will start on August 1, 2000.



10
(d)  Transport Sector Reform  and Rehabilitation Project APL:  At the time of
effectiveness (scheduled for first quarter FY01), US$3.1 million will be allocated
under APL-1 (total credit amount US$48.4 million), the first of a series of loans
under the APL package, for the purchase of emergency metallic structures, including
bridges. A further US$2.0 million will be used for cyclone-related repairs of key
roads (originally included in the project).  The project will also support the
development of a strategy for the prevention and the mitigationl of the effects of
natural catastrophes, including cyclones (US$0.4 million).  In addition, the
procurement process for road maintenance has been accelerated and the capacity of
the line ministry strengthened to manage the emergency works.
iii) Supplemental Financing for the Third Social Fund and for the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit
26. Supplemental IDA financing in the amount of US$18 million for the Third Social
Fund (FID) project for rnulti-sectoral investments is being proposed (see separate
Memorandum of the President Report No. P7380-MAG). FID could productively apply
such additional funding to the cyclone reconstruction effort while continuing its normal
activities at the current pace and not jeopardizing the quality of its work, given its proven
implementation capacity. Activities to be financed would span the spectrum of FID
activities, including construction of schools and prim'ary health centers but also micro-
irrigation schemes at the community level. All implementation modalities defined under
the on-going FID III will continue to apply for the supplemental credit. Beneficiaries are
expected to contribute a minimum of 20 percent of the cost of each sub-project in cash or
in kind. During the May mission, a rapid beneficiary survey was conducted in priority
areas for intervention after the cyclones. Even though not statistically representative, the
survey concluded that beneficiaries' priorities lie with the rapid rehabilitation of primary
schools, health posts and water systems. CNC will ensure that the activities carried out
under the FID supplemental credit will be well coordinated with other reconstruction
activities.
27. Public sector reconstruction coupled with export losses and additional private import
needs are expected to create a need for residual balance of payments support.
Supplemental financing in the amount of US$20 million is being proposed under SAC-2 in
order to fill the unanticipated financing gap in 2000 and 2001. The government has
indicated that it intends to draw on the funds in two installments, matching its foreign
exchange and domestic resource needs arising from reconstruction. To that end, the
government and IDA have agreed on a transparent mechanism that will monitor progress of
the complete reconstruction effort. The details of this supplemental credit are covered in
Section IV.
iv) Long-term Cyclone Vulnerability Mitigation Strategy
28. IDA worked with gove,rnment and other partners to evaluate the existing cyclone
vulnerability mitigation strategy. While Madagascar's early warning systems were used to
alert the population to the approaching three cyclones, the system does require
improvements.  The present system  is a patchwork, comprising both national and



I1
international actors, and has emerged over years of successive disasters. Responsibilities
for various aspects of disaster reduction, from prevention and preparedness to relief and
reconstruction, and for dealing with specific hazards, have grown organically over the
years during successive administrations through a series of sometimes overlapping decrees.
As a result, responsibilities and resources are allocated through dispersed and ad hoc
arrangements that, even so, manage to function surprisingly well. Nevertheless, the
growing emphasis on prevention and the need to manage disasters more effectively in
general is creating a positive pressure to clarify the institutional structure and roles and
responsibilities so that capacity building efforts can be focused to achieve disaster
reduction results.
29.  With the assistance of IDA and other donors, the government has formulated a
vulnerability mitigation plan. The plan includes four areas: (a) development of a National
Strategy for Risk Management that also includes the rationalization of the legal and
institutional framework for the response to disasters and would assign clear mandates for
various institutions in disaster management; (b) mobilization of permanent resources for
risk mitigation which can include the establishment of a permanent 'disaster fund'; (c)
capacity building in the key agencies (CNS and CNC); and (d) improvement of
information systems such as the early warning system and a vulnerability monitoring
system. The govermnent assigns high priority to carrying out this strategy. Various donor
organizations, including IDA, have pledged financial support for the implementation of the
strategy. IDA's contribution will come through the recently approved Transport Sector
Reform and Rehabilitation Project APL (effectiveness expected August 2000) which
includes US$0.4 million to support the development of a strategy for the prevention and
mitigation of effects of natural catastrophes, including cyclones.
30.  Lessons Learned. In designing IDA's response to the emergency, the team drew
from OED experience, from advice from the Bank's Disaster Management Facility and
from Bank teams involved in responding to recent similar emergencies in different parts of
the world, such as Honduras and Mozambique. From these, three key lessons were
incorporated in the formulation of IDA's strategy. First, any response to such an
emergency situation should be rapid, efficient and fast-disbursing. Thus the Bank's effort
to assist Madagascar in rapid assessment of the damages and the choice to respond by
using existing operations, with either supplemental credits (and quick disbursing as in the
case of the SAC-2) or restructuring.   Second, procurement and implementation
arrangements should be flexible. Hence, in the restructuring effort of ongoing operations,
the team reviewed and simplified procurement and implementation arrangements. The
third lesson pertains to the importance of monitoring and evaluation. Thus, several
monitoring tools will be used to keep track of macro-economic performance, disseminate
information about cyclone rehabilitation efforts, and determine the impact of cyclone
rehabilitation on people in the affected areas (Annex 1).
31. Lessons were also drawn from the experience of two previous rehabilitation projects
in Madagascar in 1984 and 1994 supported by IDA.4  Three evaluation results were
4  Implementation Completion Report of the Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Report No.:
17378).



12
incorporated in the design of the IDA response. First, successful program implementation,
and prompt reconstruction, hinges on having a strong coordination unit. The government
and IDA have agreed that CNC will be reinforced with sufficient qualified staffing,
equipment, and an operating budget to coordinate effectively the reconstruction effort.
Second, stringent moniloring is instrumental in focusing assistance on key activities for the
success of the program and in enhancing flexibility in project implementation. To this end,
the government and IDA have agreed that CNC will furnish detailed monthly information
updates to regional and national consultative groups to be established as part of this
cyclone reconstruction effort. The groups will be composed of the government, donors and
non-governmental organizations. The consultative groups will receive detailed monthly
reports on the entire reconstruction effort as part of government's effort to ensure
transparency. Meetings conducted every two months will discuss the progress made and
future plans. Annex 1 spells out the specifics of this monitoring arrangements. Third, the
complexity inherent in multisectoral reconstruction programs can be mitigated by early
agreement on the reconstruction strategy and donor coordination for the channeling of
assistance into priority sectors. The joint damage assessment conducted by the
government, IDA, other donors and non-governmental organizations, outlines specific
sector rehabilitation strategies that will form the basis for phasing of the reconstruction
effort.
32. Rationale for IDA Involvement. The CAS (discussed by the Board on February
18, 1997, Report IDA/R97-7) advocates faster and broad-based economic growth partly
through higher foreign investment as a necessary means to achieve sustainable poverty
reduction. With its response to the emergency, IDA aims to:
(i)  contribute to the effective and rapid reconstruction of productive and social
infrastructure in the most affected and poorest areas of the country, thereby helping
poor families to regain their income earning potential and providing crucial access to
functioning schools and health centers.
(ii)  help maintain macro-economic stability by contributing to covering unanticipated
financing needs that threaten to jeopardize the implementation of the reform
program Madagascar is currently undertaking. Accordingly, IDA's response would
contribute to sustaining growth, reducing pressure of the reconstruction effort on the
domestic credit market, thereby creating more room for the private sector as a vital
actor in the reconstruction effort. This will contribute to upholding the confidence
of foreign investors in the country.
IV. The Proposed Supplemental Credit for the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit
33.  Macroeconomic S3ituation and Resource Needs.   Madagascar's economic
performance has substantially improved in recent years. Per capita income growth has
been positive, averaging 1.5 percent since 1997, which is a first for Madagascar in a
decade. Inflation has declined from about 50 percent in 1995 to single digits in recent
years. Fiscal management has improved, and the budget deficit (including grants) declined
from an average of 6 percent of GDP in the mid-1990s to about 1.2 percent of GDP in
1999. New export earnings from export processing zones (EPZ) and tourism have lowered
the dependence on traditional agricultural exports. The current account deficit (including



13
grants) declined from about 6 percent of GDP in mid-1990s to about 2.7 percent of GDP in
1999.
34.  Madagascar faces the challenge of reconstruction at a critical time in its adjustment
program. It is important that the government overcomes the reconstruction challenge in a
transparent and judicious fashion to maintain international and domestic credibility. The
joint damage assessment conducted by government and donors estimated public
reconstruction costs at US$92 million for the 24 month period July 2000 - June 2002.
Together with compensation for crop losses, US$62 million, and additional private imports,
US$27 million, the total additional financing needed for 2000 to 2002 amounts to US$181
million (Table 6). For the remainder of 2000, the financing needed due to the cyclones
amounts to US$75 million to compensate for cyclone-related export shortfalls and higher
import needs, including private sector reconstruction. These figures are based on IMF and
initial government projections; they were updated using the work of the joint working
groups for reconstruction assessment in May/June 2000. The figures will be revisited in
September 2000 at the mid-term review under the current Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF).
Table 5: AMadagascar: Selected Economic Indicators, 1997-2001
Actual                   Projection
Before cyclones  After cyclones
1997  1998  1999      2000    2001    2000  2001
Real GDP growth (in percent)    3.7   3.9   4.7        5.3     5.6     4.8    5.7
Agriculture                    1.9  2.1    3.4        3.8     5.2     0.8   3.5
Industry                       4.7   5.3   4.3        5.5     5.8     5.5    6.0
Services                       4.6   5.1   5.5        5.8     5.8     6.7    7.5
Inflation (CPI, in percent)     4.5   6.2    9.7       7.6     5.0     9.9    8.0
Exports, FOB (in US$ millions)   505   519   594      657      721     627   704
Imports, CIF (in US$ millions)    802   791    885   1009    1066    1054  1114
Current account deficit (percent    7.8   7.9   6.5    7.3      7.0     9.1    8.4
of GDP, before grants)
Current account deficit (percent    2.4   4.8   2.7    2.4      2.3     4.2    3.8
of GDP, after grants)
Fiscal deficit % GDP (before    7.7   8.1    4.8       5.5     4.3      6.3    4.9
grants)
Fiscal deficit % GDP (after     2.4   4.6    1.2       0.7     1.1      1.5    1.6
grants)
Source: Government of Madagascar, IMF and staff estimates.
35. Assisting Madagascar to meet the unforeseen financing needed arising from the
cyclones (US$181 million over the period 2000 to 2002) is of paramount importance to
keeping the adjustment program on track. The additional financing need for 2000-2002,



14
representing both private and public iequirements, amounts to approximately 80 percent of
the stock of foreign reserves at end 1999. As stated above, over the period 2000-2002,
central govemment reconstruction needs have been estimated at US$92 million, eighty
percent of which would be extemally financed. The advent of the three cyclones imposes
additional financing needed which should be overcome while maintaining macro-stability
and adjustment on track. This means that it is important for Madagascar to avoid (a)
resorting to domestic credit, which would be inflationary, (b) increasing public sector
borrowing, which would put pressure on the private sector, or (c) depleting already low
reserve levels. Either of these options would weaken Madagascar's stabilization gains.
Table 6: Financing needed due to Cyclones' (US$ million)
Total
2000-02   2000   2001   2002
Resources needed                             181      75      65     41
Public reconstruction2                       92      23      45     24
Offset of crop losses                        62      30      17      15
Additional private imports                   27      22       3      2
Financing of additional needs                181      75      65     41
Paris Club3                                   19     19       0       0
IMF                                          33      33       0       0
IDA                                          59      18      34       7
SAC-2                                     20      10     10       0
FID-3                                     18       4     12       2
Other                                     21       4     12       5
Other Donors Reconstruction (incl. ADB, EU)  52       5      26     21
Government of Madagascar reprioritization of  18      0       5      13
public expenditures
1/ Both the government expenditure and balance of payments needs are additional, over and
above, amounts planned prior to cyclone; figures are rounded.
2/ The public reconstruction effort is scheduled to last from July 2000 to June 2002.
3/ Total Paris Club debt (including previously planned and additional) relief 2000 is expected
to be US$33.3 million.
36. Madagascar's additional financing needed (US$181 million) for the period 2000 to
2002 is expected to be met by extemal and domestic efforts. On the extemal side, Paris
Club additional debt relief (US$19 million), the IMF (US$33 million), IDA (US$59
million), and other donors (US$52 million) are providing the majority of the resources,
while govermment is providing an amount (US$18 million) equivalent to twenty percent of
the public sector reconstruction needs (US$92 million). The financing needed for 2000
amounts to US$75 million; it is expected to be met by the aforementioned debt relief from
the Paris Club, US$33 million from the IMF, US$18 million in additional IDA support, and
US$5 million in other multilateral and bilateral support.  IDA's response and the
government's proposed phasing of its withdrawal under the supplemental credit was
closely coordinated with the IMF to provide emergency financing under its Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility. Both the African Development Bank and the European



15
Union have indicated that they will actively support the reconstruction effort. The proposed
financing scenario responds to the government's reconstruction need. The budget support
provided by the proposed SAC-2 supplemental operation would complement IDA
assistance from project restructuring and the FID supplemental. It also enables the
government to undertake quick and decisive reconstruction activities in high priority areas
that suffer from cyclone damage and chronic poverty.
37. Progress and Experience of the On-going Structural Adjustment Operation. On
April 29, 1999, the Board of Directors of the World Bank approved SAC-2 in the amount
of US$100 million. This credit builds on the first adjustment operation and assists the
government to continue implementing its reform program. The program rests on four
pillars for high growth: (a) macroeconomic stabilization; (b) privatization; (c) an improved
business environment; and (d) strengthened public finances.
38. The credit was signed on June 10, 1999 (Cr. 7294-MAG), and became effective on
June 30, 2000. The effectiveness date was postponed twice. The principal cause of this
delay was difficulty in the privatization of the petroleum distribution company "SOLIMA".
The privatization of "SOLIMA" faced complicated technical problems coupled with a
weak institutional structure in implementing the privatization. These problems partly
stemmed from this being the first large-scale non-financial privatization for the government
and were compounded by a tough political constraint as prices of oil products had to be
raised following the rise of crude oil prices in the international market.
39. After successful completion of the effectiveness conditions, disbursement of first
tranche of the credit, amounting to US$25 million, is now being processed. The second
tranche, amounting to US$30 million, depends in part on the privatization of Air
Madagascar, the national airline, which is to take place at the end of 2000 or in the first
quarter of 2001. Since the government has now gained knowledge and experience in
privatizing large companies, disbursement of the third and last tranche (approximately
US$45 million linked to the privatization of TELMA, the state telephone company) is less
likely to be delayed and is expected in 2001.
40. Objectives of the Supplemental Credit. The objectives of this supplemental credit
to SAC-2 are twofold:
(i)  to provide fast-disbursing foreign exchange to partially compensate for unanticipated
and pressing financing needs in the balance of payments; and
(ii) to provide counterpart funds to government for the planned reconstruction effort,
thereby alleviating borrowing needs from the private sector which could crowd-out
much-needed private sector investment activity.
41.  Credit Description and Phasing. The supplemental credit to SAC-2 would consist
of one tranche in the amount of US$20 million. The tranche would be available
immediately after effectiveness of the supplementary credit. However, the government has
indicated that it would withdraw the funds in two installments of US$10 million, with the
first withdrawal immediately after effectiveness and the other in 2001. Government
proposes to phase the withdrawal so as to help meet financing needed for next year; and
meet needs of domestic reconstruction in a timely manner. Thus, timing of the second



16
installment would in part be deternined by the rehabilitation work in health and education,
both high priority sectors fDr the government. The government plans to withdraw the
second installment when (i) 350 destroyed primary schools in the 10 most heavily
damaged school districts (CiScos) are rehabilitated in a cyclone-prone manner and
appropriately staffed and equiipped; and (ii) 33 of the 82 destroyed primary health centers
(CSB1) are rehabilitated in a cyclone-prone manner, appropriately equipped and staffed
with medical personnel. A stringent monitoring system for the entire public reconstruction
effort has been agreed between the government and IDA (Annex 1).
42.  Monitoring. Since the supplemental credit to SAC-2 contributes to closing an
unanticipated financing need in the balance of payments and the budget that could
otherwise undernine the reform effort, the government, IDA and the IMF will jointly
monitor macro-economic performance including the evolving adverse impact of the
cyclones on exports and import needs. For 2000, the program would be deemed a success
if (a) growth does not fall below 4.8 percent; (b) inflation does not rise above 10 percent;
and (c) the reform agenda, including private sector development and public sector reform,
remains on track.
43.  The government has put in place a transparent monitoring mechanism. This effort
would not be linked to the actual use of counterpart funds under the SAC-2 operation but
rather provide the basis for a global monitoring of the reconstruction effort, including
funds from IDA, other donors and domestic resources. The principles of this monitoring
system are:
(i)   Formation of Consultative Groups. Consultative groups will be forned both at the
national level as well as in the two most affected regions.5 These groups will
consist equally of public officials, and donor and civil society representatives (non-
governmental organizations, community groups). The consultative groups will
meet every two months at the national and regional level with CNC. These
consultative groups will (a) be informed by government about the progress of the
reconstruction effort; (b) discuss with government bottlenecks in the cyclone
rehabilitation efforts and help CNC exert pressure on the relevant rehabilitation
institution to eliminate these bottlenecks; and (c) act as independent parties to
disseminate information about the cyclone rehabilitation efforts, increasing
transparency. The groups will remain active until the cyclone rehabilitation efforts
have been completed, which is expected to happen around mid 2002.
(ii)   Reconstruction Information Dissemination. CNC will furnish monthly reports to
the national and regional consultative groups specifying (i) type of infrastructure
rehabilitated to date; (ii) its geographic location; (iii) costs of rehabilitation; (iv)
source of funds used for the reconstruction; and (v) future reconstruction plans.
The regional consultative groups will also be furnished with detailed inforrnation
about contractors chosen by type of reconstruction plus the contract arnount
awarded. CNC will facilitate the meetings of the consultative groups at the
regional and national level.
S  The two areas comprise (i) the districts severely affected by cyclones Gloria and Hudah; and (ii) the
districts severely affected by Eline.



17
(iii) Participatory Beneficiary Assessment. To monitor the impact of the cyclone
rehabilitation effort on people in the affected areas, the government will
commission participatory beneficiary surveys to be conducted every six months,
starting in February 2001. The beneficiary assessment will be conducted by an
independent party, subject to non-objection from IDA. Each assessment will
randomly select four communities per district in four out of the ten most affected
districts. In each community, 30 randomly selected households will be interviewed
about local reconstruction efforts in the education, health, irrigation, transport,
water and electricity sectors.  The results of this participatory beneficiary
assessment will be made publicly available to the consultative groups.
Additionally, the government is planning to request the National Statistical Institute
(INSTAT) to include an additional module in the household survey already
planned, which would provide data on the reconstruction effort in the most affected
zones.
44.  Credit Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement.  Implementation,
procurement and disbursement arrangements remain as in the original credit agreement.
Coordination of overall program activities remains the responsibility of the Technical
Secretariat for Adjustment, but the Government has designated CNC to report on the
formation and working of consultative groups and to oversee the preparation of the
beneficiary assessments. Disbursement will follow the Bank's simplified procedures
applicable to all adjustment operations.
45. Poverty Category. The poor were the most severely affected by the cyclones..
Though not targeted at the poor, the credit would assist the poor by helping the government
contain inflation, providing foreign exchange for key imports (especially rice), and
contributing resources for the restoration of basic services in the cyclone-affected areas.
V.  Benefits and Risks
46.  Benefits.  IDA's overall response will contribute to the effective and rapid
reconstruction of productive and social infrastructure in a stable macro-economic setting.
Specifically, the supplemental credit to SAC-2 will
(i)  help maintain macro-economic stability by contributing to meeting unanticipated
financing needed which would otherwise endanger government's reform plans;
(ii) provide resources to government's reconstruction effort thereby reducing pressure of
the reconstruction effort on the domestic credit market and creating more room for
the private sector as a vital actor in the reconstruction effort; and
(iii) engage Government and all its domestic and foreign partners in a transparent
monitoring effort of the entire reconstruction program.
47. Risks. The program has three main risks:
(i)  Evolving information on the drought in the south of the country might reveal yet
greater foreign exchange needs than presently estimated. Therefore, close monitoring
of food and cash crop production in the cyclone and drought areas is essential to



18
anticipate and, if necessary, respond to such a situation. Regular reviews will take
place under the existing PRGF program of the IMF.
(ii) Government might not be able to meet its admittedly ambitious targets in the
reconstruction effort if capacity constraints continue which have held up
implementation of the Madagascar portfolio in the past.  Simplification and
streamlining of procedures and capacity reinforcement designed to expedite
implementation address this risk. Further, close supervision using the established
monitoring system shoudd identify bottlenecks early-on. Counterpart funds generated
by the credit will likely finance the reconstruction effort in a timely manner. Further,
a Portfolio Review mission by IDA is planned for the first quarter of FY2001 to take
stock of implementation progress and to tackle any bottlenecks in projects
contributing to the reconstruction effort.
(iii) A non-transparent use of funds could reduce the efficiency of the government
reconstruction effort and also undermine trust of financing organizations as well as
civil society. Therefore, the established monitoring system aims to track the use of
funds in the whole reconstruction effort on a monthly basis.
48. Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Supplemental Credit will
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association and
recommend that the Executive: Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
July 5, 2000
Annexes



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLEMENTAL FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
I.    FORMATION OF CONSULTATIVE GROUPS AND INFORMATION STRATEGY
National Level
1.  A consultative group in support of the post-cyclone rehabilitation will be formed at the
national level. This consultative group's principal mission is to advise the National
Coordinating Committee for Cyclone Damage (CNC) ensuring better coordination of post-
cyclone rehabilitation in Madagascar.
2.  The group will be led by the CNC.
3.  It will be comprised of public officials responsible for social, economic and infrastructure
issues, the National Relief Council (CNS), and donors and civil society representatives
(non-governmental organizations and community groups). Representatives from the public
sector, civil society and donors will be equally represented in the group.
4.  The group will meet every two months with the CNC during the rehabilitation period
between August 2000 and June 2001 and as necessary. These meetings will be presided
over by the Prime Minister or his representative.
5.  During the meetings of the consultative group, the CNC will present updates on the
reconstruction effort, including (i) a detailed description of the type of infrastructure
rehabilitated, (ii) geographical location, and (iii) exact cost. Additionally, the report will
include (i) total disbursements of funds received for reconstruction to date; (ii)
geographical distribution of disbursed funds; and (iii) committed and planned rehabilitation
work to be conducted in the future.
6.  Arrangements for the establishment, functioning and organization of the consultative group
will be made official and Article 14 of Decree no 84/443 on January 5, 1985 related to the
creation and attribution of CNC will be revised to this effect.
Regional Level
1.  Two consultative groups will also be formed at the regional level before August 1, 2000 in
the most affected regions by the cyclones Hudah, Eline and Gloria. The first group will be
established in Antalaha for the SAVA region and Maroantsetra; the second group will be in
the Mahanoro, Vatomandry, Anosibe an' Ala and Marolambo regions.
2.  The regional consultative groups will be presided over by the CNC and will meet every
month.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
3.   The regional consultative groups will be composed of the regional and local branches of
CNC, mayors of the affected regions, local public sector officials from Ministries of
Agriculture, Transport, Education and Health, several community groups, local and
national non-governmental organizations as well as donor organizations working at the
regional level. Representatives from the public sector, civil society and donors will be
equally represented in the groups.
4.   The regional CNC will report on (i) ongoing and planned rehabilitation investments per
locality, (ii) type of investment, (iii) disbursements to date, (iv) geographical location, (v)
contractors chosen to undertake the work, (vi) and amount of the contract awarded.
5.   Costs arising from the regional CNC meetings, including printing of material, travel costs
of local representative, etc. will be borne by the CNC.
6.   The CNC permanent secretariat will be assisted during the rehabilitation phase by an
accounting consultant and a civil engineer. The costs associated with these two positions
will be borne by the CNC.
II.       PARTICIPATORY BENEFICIARY MONITORING
1.   The CNC will conduct a participatory beneficiary assessment every six months of the
planned reconstruction effort, the first one to be conducted in February 2001.
2.   CNC will hire a consultancy firm of high reputation to conduct the beneficiary assessment,
subject to non-objection by the International Development Association.
3.   CNC will bear the costs of the participatory beneficiary assessments.
4.  In consultation with the regional consultative groups (see above), the consultant will select
four of the ten most affected districts, and within the districts, four communities each
(random selection). Within each of these four districts, 30 households will be selected on a
random basis for the beneficiary assessments.
5.   The beneficiary assessment will contain the following information:
A.  Inventory of infrastructure destroyed by the cyclones
B.  Progress report of works
C.  Interviews with community members about the (i) speed of reconstruction; (ii)
costs of reconstruction for the community; and (iii) quality of reconstruction.
The interviews will also include an open-ended question about general views
of the reconstruction effort of the government.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
MONrTORING ARRANGEMENTS
6.   CNC will publish the results of the participatory beneficiary assessments and distribute
them to the national and regional consultative groups no later than one month after the
final consultant report.
III.   HOUSEHOLD SURVEY MONITORING.
1.   CNC will discuss with INSTAT whether an additional module for monitoring of the
reconstruction effort can be included in the household survey.
2.   The International Development Association will provide opinions and technical advice to
CNC and INSTAT on the design of the questionnaire.
3.   CNC will assume all costs of this activity.



7



ANNEX 2
Page I of I
SUPPLEMENTAL FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY CREDIT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)    Time taken to prepare:           One month
(b)    Prepared by:                     Government with assistance of IDA staff
(c)    Appraisal:                       May/June 2000
(d)    Planned date of Effectiveness:    July 31, 2000
(e)    Project Closing:                 December 31, 2001






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
Madagascar at a glance                                                                 6/21100
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Madagascar    Africa   Income       Development dlamond
1999
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                        15.0       627     3,536                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    250        510       520                 L
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       3.7       323     1,842
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         2.9       2.6       1.7     G                                 G
Laborforce(%)                                          2.8       2.6       1.9     GNP                               Gross
per                          I primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  75
Urban populaton (% of total population)                28         33        30
Life expectanry at birth (years)                       58         50       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               92         92       68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             32         33        36               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populaion)                  29         43        73
Illiteracy (36 of population age 15+)                  54         40        31
Gross primary enrollment (% oschool-age population)    72         78       107                  Madagascar
Male                                                 73         85       112                - Low-income group
Female                                               70        71       102   |
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratloa*
GDP (US$ billions)                                     2.5       3.7       3.8
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                  .,    13.4       12.5      12.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP              ..    18.4       21.4      24.8
Gross domestic savingslGDP                     ..      9.8       4.6       4.6
Gross national savingslGDP                     ..    10.4        5.0       6.9
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -3.0        7.5      -5.8     Domestic                     Investment
Interestpayments/GDP                           ..      4.1       1.2        .      Savings
Total debVGDP                                  ..   138.2      118.3       123
Total debt servicetexports                     ..    44.4       18.7      16.3
Present value of debVIGDP                      ..
Present value of debtlexports                  ..
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.3      1.4      3.9       4.7       5.7             -     Madagascar
GNP per capita                      -1.5     -0.9      1.5       2.4       2.7               --Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.2       3.9      2.1      20.9       8.7                                        .....
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  29.8     32.9      30.6      30,0   !
Industry                                     17.2     14.8      13.6      13.8     1i
Manufacturing                                ..    12.9          ..        ..
Services                                     53.1     52.3      55.8      56.2                              7   95   99
Private consumption                            ..    81.4       87.9      87.6   -.20
General govemment consumption                  ..      8.8       7.5       7.9              _     GDI       :  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    22.0       29.3      32.7                                       _      11
1979-49  1989-99      1998      1999     G    h of eprts nd imports
(average annual growth)                                                            G
Agriculture                                   2.2      1.5       2.1       3.4     z
Industry                                     -0.6      1.6       5.3       4.3    20
Manufactunng                                2.5      0.2              ..         15
Services                                     -0.5      1.7       5.1       5.5    10
Private consumption                          -1.2      1.9       3.4       38  1 4-
General govemment consumption                 0.5      0.2       2.1       42       s9
Gross domestc investment                     13.5     -0.1       9.0       3.5   .-10 L
Imports of goods and services                -8.5      4.2       1.6      16.5              -Exports         lmports
Gross national product                        1.6      1.9       4.6       5.5                         _
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Madagascar
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998     1999      Infation (%)
Domestic pricesi
(% change)                                                                            60
501
Consumer prces                                           9.0        6.2       9.7            2940
Implicnt GDP deflator                             ..    12.0        8.4       9.8    30.
20
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 ; o      -
Current revenue                                         12.7       10.9      12.1             94   95    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                            .      2.7        0.4       3.1               _     P deflator    cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -6. 8      -7.8      4.1                -GDP deflator  --__CP        _
TRADE                                                                               , 
1979     1989       1998      1999
197S9 mill98ns)     1998Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      358       519       594  
Coffee                                                  77         40        30
Other food                                              42         16        27   |00
Manufactures                                           109       405        450
Total imports (cif)                                      372       791       885       4         00
Food                                                    38  54  45   #i i
Fuel and energy                                         35        102       124 
Capital goods                                          120        149       154                 9         9    9 .,
Export price index (1995=100)                             81        86        83
Import price index (1995=100)                             81        84        88                  a Exports     w Impons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                100       102        95    ___      __-
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$millions)1979                                      1989       1998      1999 m    Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  488      461        801       921    |
Imports of goods and services                  928      550       1,097     1,216
Resource balance                              -440       -89      -296      -294       -
Net income                                     NIA      -189       -85        -54
Net current transfers                            ..     203        100       142    I K     "
Current account balance                        N/A       -75       -281     -206
Financing items (net)                            ..      108       165       260      '10
Changes in net reserves                        N/A       -33       116       -54    .12
Memo:                                                                                _         _- -
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         N/A        20       170       226
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)              213      1603      5341      6199
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS   ._, _                                                              __.      _      - -
1979     1989       1998      1999    1
(USS mnillions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           779    3,452       4.421     4,371
IBRD                                          29       27                           Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
IDA                                           97      670      1,329      1,384
Total debtservice                              N/A       244        167      169          G 1.525                   1,329
IBRD                                           3         5         2         1
IDA                                            1         7        22        25
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               33                 116       141                                       C:58
Official creditors                           138       164       122        93                                       C.58
Private creditors                            166       -17        -2        -2
Foreign direct investment                      -7       ..        16        58                             }
Portfolio equity                               0                                              57             D:930
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   49       25        115       132
Disbursements                                 15       73         69        71      A -IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Principal repayments                           1         5        13        16      8 - IDA    D - Other rnultilateral  F - Private
Net flows                                     15       68         56        55   it___________________
Interest payments                              3        7          9        10
Net transfers                                 12       61         47        45
Development Economics                                                                                                    6/21/00



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
CAS Annex B3 (IFC & MIGA) for Madagascar
Madagascar - IFC and MIGA Program, FY 1997-2000
1997  1998  1999  2000
IFC approvals (US$m)                                  2.10  0.70  6.10  2.88
Sector (%)
FINANCIAL SERVICES                                           100           76
FOOD & AGRO-BUSINESS                                                       24
Total                                                    0   100     0   100
Investment instrument(%/6)
Loans                                                          0           24
Equity                                                       100           56
Quasi-Equity                                                               20
Other
Total                                                    0   100      0    76
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                               1.722 1.669 1.590 1.621



ANNEX 5
Page I of I
CAS Annex B8 - Madagascar
Status of Bank Group Operatons (Operations Portfolio) as of June 21, 2000
Closed
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                       Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                              Supervision Rating b/          Original Amount In USS Millions        Disbursements '
Fiscal                                        DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                          Obeecives    Progress           IBRD        IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Fffn Rev'd
1990    P001540    FIN SECTOR/APEX                  S              S                0          48       2.68       2.1      1.27      -1.54
1995    P001563   AG.EXTENSION PROJECT              S              S                0        25.2          0      1.33      4.01         0
1995    P001522   IRRIGATION II                     S              S                 0       21.2          0       2.2      2.32          0
1996    P001533    ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPM           S              S                0          46          0    20.92      16.66          0
1996    P035669   SOCIAL FUND 2                     S              S                0          40          0         0       1.7         0
1997    P040019    CAPACITY BUILDING                S              S                0       13.83          0      2.72      2.01         0
1997    P001537    ENVIRON. II                      S              S                 0         30          0    10.18       -2.49         0
1997    P001555   PRIV SECT DEV & C.B.              S              S                0        23.8          0      9.59     10.24      -2.34
1997    P048697    URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE             U              U                0          35          0    24.28      13.39         0
1998    P001559    EDUCATION SECTOR DEV             S              U                0          65          0    58.68      22.41         0
1998    P056487    MINING PROJECT                   S              S                0           5          0      3.72      2.26      -0.22
1998    P001568   NUTRITION II                      S              S                0        27.6          0    23.88       4.87         0
1998    P001564    RURAL WATER SEC.PILO             S              S                0        17.3          0    14.78      11.35         0
1999    P052186    MICRO FINANCE                    S              S                0        16.4          0    13.88       1.76         0
1999    P057378   SAC II                            S              S                0         100          0    98.87       55.8         0
1999    P064305   SOCIAL FUND III                   S              S                0          15          0      6.03     -5.26         0
2000    P062628    Regional Development             S              S                 0        4.6          0      4.46      1.27          0
2000    P051741   Second Health Sector Support P    S              S                 0         40          0        39         0          0
2000    P052208   Transport Sector Reform and Re    #                                0         65          0    64.74          0         0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



MAP SECTION



m



IBRD 20035R1
Ants7ranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                            g4
PoR-to.,aeslos .  .  -w -a,                                                                 jj}
AiJ. e w4r tos                                                                           ANTSIRA
F*ftaiftys      .                                                          un,o{+ ese                        1
C*tMiW 4ci FlA*r                                                          t <Obnj,  
4  A=~~~~~~rSsM     Hy A J> A
_,._  Fnter                                                                                    onazott  rPE (       _1  ;zltse
lititw atw Foitee;efy    v                                    J        +       / A\_k,    +
.        '                               ,<_R,             f        N   safoqdrS.o_,' 
m.hJ                        y    .            Fo  i-o        \       
.   .             f,/ A                                        +   X   <\) /~~~~~~~~b  i9-wo  ostAnepmnlW4aoiqr 
0 X \ + i 7 irfnriteA.6.h-h.-
T 0;ofnb L I-~t( A.r P; _                                                       4 y
M.nrl<  +                                         \ l  j.k                rmOOnrI  
.                                              7rAnOos7AnoOObO                               < t;-dofoi
- -          \,   \_ Anholovo I t-NTANANARIvd>                          fig;  g                f- 
~~ -         )    '  +<   4   [ 9          m     r z       n     d      E    i   $gibitidritt~~~~-k.~g
0A.k.-bo~~~~~~~~~~~~1 FIANMooi        ormne  1 
.   (i      A) *-\v_               r  Sorlvinondrlono \is      {tAndromn1o           WiSrKeLtMomrl a  $0 rAr       ISO.       04
G r- n      d    4      m~~~~~ ...    y _J F ne rioo   ta
,d"r"rata    oo     Tn AO   IhARY tmbboohso 
on  thi  om                                                                                                                           Ao.Fonrnsop 1
al                                                                                                                                        GA7  o  f mbly<0 
'rH*3                             Anozob f'                                                                              .    .k
oay ~   ~                       v+,0wi on             Ihos i                        i    ko
or~~~                                                                                                     SOUTHrko ao/
Tofiorrt  <  <     /  \   .                 \ ZgVpnFetiroZ               X                  .                   ,~~~AFRICA
0   +'   /   i   \         Midongy  >                          .>TANZ~~~~~~ ~~~ANDA t     IVD.1
.  1            S                 tOBerokefo       )    g  ,>>>S/.                          >        Ab;   h'T         CpRNr
tfW  bourrdrf6. r.iolort. \   \0F__   (    t02   XMtttrartenino           /         1ECEMBER 199



