Report No. PID9790
Project Name                     Madagascar-Second Structural Adjustment Credit...
(SAC-2) Second Supplemental Credit (Oil Shock)
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Adjustment Operation
Project ID                       MGPE73340
Borrower                         Republic of Madagascar
Implementing Agency              Prime Minister's Office
Date this PID Prepared           December 18, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 20, 2000
1.      Background. Madagascar has seen a marked decline in living standards
during the last 30 years. Once a flourishing society, the country now ranks
with the world's poorest. Education, nutrition and life expectancy indicators
have deteriorated; lack of physical access to social services, financial
services and agricultural markets has crippled development; and slash-and-burn
agriculture has led to severe deforestation. At the same time, population
growth has remained high, near 3 percent. The result: poverty has become
entrenched in the social fabric. Three-fourths of all Malagasy are poor, and
GDP per capita in 1998 prices, at $255, is three-fifths its level of the late
1960s. Poor performance can be linked to decades of policies of economic
nationalism and self-sufficiency, and State intervention in key productive
sectors. Yet, the country's economic potential is formidable. It enjoys rich
mineral deposits; fertile land with abundant rain; an environment attractive
to different types of tourists with a unique eco-system, varied topography,
and several climatic zones; and a coastal perimeter of about 3,000 miles which
provides access to rich maritime resources.
2.      Madagascar has adopted an increasingly more pragmatic economic policy
stance beginning in the late 1980s with considerable progress achieved over
the past four years. The macroeconomic situation has substantially improved.
Inflation has declined, to 9.7 percent in 1999 from a peak of 49 percent in
1995, reflecting decisive policy measures which halted erratic monetary
expansion. Fiscal management has improved, with the fiscal deficit at 1.2
percent of GDP in 1999 compared to 11.4 percent in 1994. The tax structure is
more efficient, with an increased reliance on a VAT. Revenues (excluding
grants) have increased from a historical low of 8.3 percent of GDP in 1994 to
11 percent in 1999. In the structural arena, progress has also been marked.
Non-traditional exports have performed remarkably well, led by manufacturing
EPZ and shrimp exports. Market distortions that affected agricultural
commodities have been removed
3.      However, Madagascar has been hard hit by the petroleum price increase in
the year 2000.  Without own petroleum production, Madagascar is entirely
dependent on imports of oil. The average price of Madagascar's oil imports is
about 65 percent higher than in 1999. As a result of these higher prices,
Madagascar's oil import bill increased by about 78 percent in 2000, and is
expected to increase by a further 5 percent in 2001. For 2000, the additional
cost to the economy was about US$82 million, or nearly 2.5 percent of GDP.
This loss is larger than estimated interim debt relief estimated under the



enhanced HIPC initiative (around US$60 million per year). Faced with this
situation, consumer prices are nearly double what they were two years ago. Oil
price increases, together with the three cyclones that hit Madagascar at the
beginning of the year, are negatively impacting economic activity and diluting
the effect of Government's reform program.
4.      Project Scope and Objectives. The proposed credit supplements the on-
going Second Structural Adjustment Credit, SAC-2 (Credit 3218-MAG). The
supplemental credit aims to cushion the impact of the petroleum price shock
and ensure that Madagascar's economic performance and progress in implementing
reforms is not jeopardized. The counterpart funds generated by this
supplemental credit will allow Government to reduce the specific taxes on
petroleum products or to maintain existing rebates and thus moderate the
impact of the shock on prices to final users in a non-inflationary manner.
5.      Benefits. The proposed supplemental credit will allow the Government to
proceed with the planned reform agenda and meet the key fiscal and growth
benchmarks; without this credit, Madagascar's ability to do so would be
jeopardized. The CAS advocates faster, broad-based economic growth, partly
through higher foreign investment as a necessary means to achieve sustainable
poverty reduction. Assisting Madagascar to meet the additional import bill
arising from the oil shock (US$160 million over the period 2000 to 2001) is of
paramount importance to keeping the adjustment program on track. Accordingly,
IDA's response would contribute to sustaining growth which will contribute to
upholding the confidence of foreign investors in the country.
6.      Moreover, the impact of the doubling of petroleum product prices on the
already poor population in Madagascar is severe. While most petroleum
products directly affect everyday life, three of them are particularly
important for the poor. Gasoline, the price of which increased 70 percent
between April 1999 and October 2000, affects the transportation cost of all
goods. For example, food stuff prices, the lion's share of the poor's
consumption basket, have increased faster than other prices, as transport
costs rose by more than 40 percent. Kerosene used by the poor for domestic
energy increased by 65 percent in the same period and mostly affected the
budget of the rural poor. Mass urban transportation, predominantly used by
the poor, raised its fee by 100 percent since 1999 due to the gas price
increase. Therefore, the reduction of the energy tax will provide relief also
to the poor population.
8.      Risks.  The nature of risk   wavering government commitment causing
interruption or reversal of reforms is the same as in the CAS. Madagascar is
entering an electoral period of about 12 months that could affect Government's
ability to implement difficult reforms. Nonetheless, prospects for
implementation of the supplemental credit are brighter. Key progress has been
achieved on structural reform, especially in the areas of macro-stabilization,
liberalization and privatization.    The SAC-2 program is on track as well as
the preparation of a new IMF's Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF),
scheduled to be approved at the beginning of 2001.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
- 2 -



Fax: (202) 522-1500
Mr. Willem van Eeghen
Telephone: (202) 473-2399
Fax: (202) 473-8564
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
- 3 -



