                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 26192

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (PPFI-P7881; IDA-32180; IDA-32181; IDA-32182; PPFI-P7880)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150.5 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                        FOR A

                       STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II




                                     June 20, 2003




AFTP1
Africa Region

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 26, 2003)

                                            Currency Unit = Malagasy Francs
                                            Mgf 6,055.93 = US$ 1.00
                                            US$ 0.000165 = Mgf 1.00

                                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                                    July 1 June 30

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ACM       Aviation Civile de Madagascar                       LCU        Local Currency Unit
AGOA      African Growth and Opportunity Act                  LDP      Letter of Development Policy
BTM       Rural Development Bank                              MCO      Mining Cadastre Office
           (Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra)
CAB        Current Account Balance                            Mgf      Malagasy Francs
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                         MoP      Memorandum and Recommendations of the
                                                                       President
CFCE      Centre de Facilitation de Création d'Entreprises    NFA      Net Foreign Assets
CNaPS     Caisse Nationale d'Assurance et de Prévoyance       OMERT    Office Malagasy d'Etudes et de Régulation des
          Sociale                                                      Télécommunications
CPR       Caisse de Prévoyance et de Retraite                 OMH      Office Malgache des Hydrocarbures
CRCM      Caisse des Retraites Civiles et Militaires          OMNIS    Office Militaire National des Industries Stratégiques
COMESA    Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa       PAIGEP   Public Sector Management and Capacity Building
                                                                       Project
CSB1      Centre de Santé de Base ­ niveau 1                  PASERP   Programme d'Actions Sociales et Economiques dans
          (Primary Health Center)                                      la Réinsertion Professionnelle
DCA       Development Credit Agreement                        PATESP   Private Sector Development and Capacity Building
                                                                       Project
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility             PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
EU        European Union                                      PSR      Project Status Report
FDHA      Fonds de Développement Halieutique et Aquicole      SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment                           SDR      Special Drawing Rights
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                              SME      Small- and Medium-scale Enterprise
HIPC      Highly-Indebted Poor Countries                      SOLIMA    Solitany Malagasy
                                                                        (Petroleum Company)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report                    STA       Secrétariat Technique à l'Ajustement
IATA      International Air Transport Association             TELMA     Telecom Malagasy
IDA       International Development Association               Tot      Terms of Trade
IDF       Institutional Development Fund                      U.S.     United States
IMF       International Monetary Fund                         US$      United States Dollar
INSTAT    Institut National de la Statistique                 WDR      World Development Report




                                          Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                                      Country Director:       Hafez Ghanem
                                        Sector Manager:       Philippe Le Houerou
                                   Task Team Leader:          Jesko Hentschel
                                  ICR Task Manager:             Luc Razafimandimby

                                        MADAGASCAR
                         STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   13
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
Annex 8. Ratings of Output Components and Achievements of Objectives                    25
Annex 9. Comparison of Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, Projections (MoP)             26
             and Actuals (ICR)
Annex 10. Policy/Measure Intermediate/Output                                            27
Annex 11. Results of the Replication of WDR Surveys                                     32
Annex 12. Income Poverty Developments 1997 - 2001 (Headcount Index %)                   35
Annex 13. Output Indicators Discussed during the Review Meeting with Line Ministries    36
              and STA
Annex 14. Performance of the Tourism Sector                                             38
Annex 15. Adjustment Dialogues and Timeline of Events                                   39
Annex 16. Government's Contribution                                                     40
Annex 17. SAC II Audit                                                                  49
Annex 18. Borrower comments                                                             52

Project ID: P057378                                                      Project Name: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
                                                                         CREDIT II
Team Leader: Luc Razafimandimby                                          TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II                          L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P7881; IDA-32180;
                                                                                                     IDA-32181; IDA-32182;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7880
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Oil and gas (17%);
                            Mining and other extractive (17%); Telecommunications (8%);
                            Aviation (8%)
                  Theme: Macroeconomic management (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring
                            and privatization (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (S); Land management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/21/1998                                        Effective: 03/30/2000              06/30/2000
   Appraisal:    04/01/1999                                            MTR: 06/30/2000                06/30/2001
    Approval:    05/20/1999                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Philippe H. Le Houerou                         Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             Jesko S. Hentschel                             Juan Zalduendo
ICR Primary Author:             Luc Razafimandimby


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
General Background

3.1.1 The second structural adjustment (SAC II) was approved in May 1999. The reforms under SAC II
were in line with the objectives of the CAS approved in 1997 and carried out in parallel with two PRGF
programs supported by the International Monetary Fund (1996/2000 ­ 2000/04). At the initial stage, SAC
II was a two-year program but the operation was closed only in December 2002 (see Annex 15).

3.1.2 The SAC II reforms were meant to consolidate the achievements of the previous single tranche
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) approved by the Board of the World Bank in 1996. SAC I was
geared to transforming Madagascar into an open economy and to redefining public expenditure priorities by
creating an enabling business environment, promoting divestiture of public enterprises - particularly the
privatization of state-owned primary banks -, and re-directing public expenditures towards the social
sectors. Despite implementation problems, the policies initiated under SAC I succeeded in increasing GDP
growth, foreign investment and the allocation of budgetary resources to the social sectors.

3.1.3 The program of SAC II was affected by two external shocks which required a rapid response from
the Bank. First, a supplemental cyclone credit was approved by the Board in June 2000 to respond to a
cyclone emergency, which had caused serious damages - notably in rural areas and in the agricultural
sector - and large export shortfalls. Second, a supplemental oil credit was approved by the Board in
December 2000 to help the country mitigate a strong increase in petroleum prices. Both credits provided
balance of payments support to meet higher import needs. Further, the generated counterpart funds were to
reduce the borrowing needs of the public sector. This ICR also includes an evaluation of the two
supplemental credits.

Original Objectives

3.1.4 The original objectives of SAC II were twofold:

     (i) to achieve high economic growth (above 5 %), with the public/private investment ratio declining
         from 1.2 in 1998 to a target of 0.9 in 2001 and the level of foreign direct investment (FDI)
         increasing from 0.4 % of GDP in 1998 to 1.7 % by 2001, and;

     (ii)to contribute to poverty reduction.

3.1.5 To achieve these objectives, the program supported substantial reforms in the following four areas: (i)
macroeconomic stabilization, to ensure that the expected expansion of the economy would take place in a
stable and predictable environment and to avoid an adverse impact on the standards of living of the poor;
(ii) private sector development, to provide investors with a more friendly business environment; (iii)
privatization of major State-owned enterprises in key areas , to provide strong signals to foreign investors
                                                            1


of the Government's willingness to disengage from productive activities, allowing for effective liberalization
and improved sector performance. Divestiture from major state-owned enterprises, in turn, would help
improve public finances and fiscal accounts (MoP Para 23), and; (iv) public finance reforms, to increase
tax revenues and achieve higher and more efficient spending in the social sectors (most notably, health and
education).

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                   - 2 -

Throughout implementation, the original objectives ­ raising economic growth and reducing poverty ­ were
not changed. However, the two external shocks (see 3.1.3) impacted on the operation's implementation and
required an injection of foreign exchange through two supplemental credits, in order to maintain the
macroeconomic targets and to keep the reform program going. In addition, the political turmoil of 2002 and
the resulting economic crisis called for a restructuring of the operation in September 2002, with a
modification of the conditions related to Air Madagascar's privatization as well as of some conditions
related to governance aspects of financial sector reform. While the objectives (growth and poverty
reduction) were maintained in the restructuring, the originally quantified targets were not attainable any
more for the year 2002 due to the economic crisis. The crisis was unrelated to the operation.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 SAC II was a three-tranche operation and a menu-based program amounting to $US 100 million.
Up-front actions to complete SAC I reforms and to lay the ground for the upcoming SAC II reforms were
required prior to Board presentation (Annex 10).

3.3.2 SAC II was a broad and comprehensive program and the implementation of the reforms required a
very high level of political commitment. The preparation team had anticipated that the package of
structural measures would be very heavy. Accordingly, an innovative project design was selected, under
which the Government could choose from a menu of reforms after completion of the effectiveness of the
credit. The menu-based program meant that the Government did not have to complete specific reforms on a
specific date but rather that it could use the most advanced reforms to meet the conditionalities required for
disbursement of the floating second tranche. Hence, it was possible for Government to postpone the
completion of remaining reforms for disbursement of the third floating tranche (Annex 10).

3.3.3 The effectiveness of the credit was linked to the privatization of the oil company SOLIMA. The
menu-based program, for the release of the second and the third tranches to take place, consisted of two
core and eight side conditions. Core measures consisted of the privatization in the air transport and the
telecommunications sectors and side conditions concentrated on private sector development and public
finance reforms. The Government had to meet one core conditions and four side conditions per tranche
(Annex 10). Each privatization process was linked to the completion of the sales of the voting stock.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Waiver and Closing Date Extension (Annex 10). In December 2001, the Board approved a waiver to
release the second tranche of the credit once a winner for the bidding process of TELMA was chosen and
invited for negotiation (hence it stopped short of the transfer of assets). Relaxing the initial condition
appeared to be justifiable for the telecommunications sector. The privatization of the petroleum sector
(including asset transfers) had been completed and the necessary strong signal about the sustainability of
the Government's privatization program had been provided to the private sector. Further, the
telecommunications sector had been effectively liberalized with the existence of four cellular phone
providers, and by the end of 2001, sector performance improved markedly. Finally, completion of the
transfer of assets was affected and delayed by clarification of land and building titles and the Bank did not
want to weaken the position of the Government by requiring an actual transfer of assets as a condition for
tranche disbursement. The Government was also granted a one-year extension of the operation until
December 2002. Second tranche disbursement occurred in January 2002.

3.4.2 Credit Restructuring (Annex 10). In September 2002, the conditions for the release of the third
tranche were restructured to account for the impact of the political crisis and a number of market
developments. The restructuring of the credit was also meant to reflect the priorities of the new authorities.




                                                     - 3 -

Regarding the core measure, although a bid had been launched in February 1999, the privatization of Air
Madagascar was affected, for a long time, by an unsettled claim of EXIM Bank on the airline's largest
asset - a Boeing 747 -, which delayed the privatization process significantly. In addition, while a potential
winning bidder had responded to the February-1999-bid, the Government halted the process in order to
elaborate a new privatization strategy and to obtain higher returns. Later on, the impact of the September
11, 2001 events on the financial situation of the major international airline companies and a sharp
deterioration of Air Madagascar's financial situation in 2002 reduced the possibility for Government to
                                                                  2


find suitable buyer for Air Madagascar. The Government adjusted its reform strategy accordingly. With
respect to the side conditions, the new Government that took office in June 2002 placed highest importance
on re-establishing public financial management and control in the aftermath of the political crisis, and on
combating corruption. This prioritization was based on the results of a review of the 2001 budget
expenditures, which had revealed a significant overspending and mismanagement of the president's special
funds by the previous regime ($US 25 million compared to a budgeted amount of $US 400,000 million).
The new Government also put emphasis on good governance in the husbandry of natural resources after
sub-national entities had issued illegal licenses in forestry and fishery sectors and as a reaction against
increased illegal exploitation of precious stones during the crisis. In parallel, several of the original side
conditions did not appear of highest importance in the post-crisis situation. First, with respect to the
liberalization side condition, the bid for a second national telecommunications operator appeared less
urgent as the sector performance had improved considerably (see Annex 13), and the planned concession of
airports was postponed in light of the new reforms strategy adopted for Air Madagascar. With respect to
land tenure, reforms of the Bail Emphytéotique (long term land lease) had been met, and although it was
uncompleted at the time of the credit restructuring, the granting of tourist and industrial sites was
advanced. The audits of the insurance companies were completed and the Government had agreed to pursue
with the audits of the social security funds. Although the Government requested that the conditions be
restructured to match it's own changed priorities, it nevertheless committed itself to carry-out the entire
reform agenda (including those conditions which were dropped).

3.4.3 Supplemental oil credit. The supplemental oil credit (US$ 30 million) became effective on June 25,
2001 and was fully disbursed on June 29, 2001. The counterpart funds generated by this credit were
destined to reduce the specific taxes on petroleum products and/or to maintain existing rebates in order to
moderate the impact of the shock on prices faced by final users.

3.4.4 Supplemental cyclone credit. The supplemental cyclone credit (US$20 million) became effective on
September 20, 2000 and was fully disbursed on July 18, 2002. It aimed at: (i) providing fast disbursing
foreign exchange to partially alleviate the pressing financing need in the balance of payments, and; (ii)
providing counterpart funds to Government for the planned reconstruction effort, thereby reducing the
borrowing needs of the public sector. The reconstruction program was meant to rehabilitate health and
education facilities, physical infrastructures such as roads, bridges and irrigation, and to mitigate the urgent
needs of the extremely poor. For that purpose, the Government was to: (i) collect detailed reconstruction
information by district, sector and contractor; (ii) publish an information bulletin on a bi-monthly basis; (ii)
regularly discuss the information bulletin with regional and national stakeholder groups, and; (iv) conduct a
participatory evaluation of the reconstruction effort. The Government indicated that it would withdraw the
funds in two installments of US$ 10 million, with the first withdrawal immediately after effectiveness . The
                                                                                                          3


second disbursement occurred in July 18, 2002.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The rating reflects the consistency of the SAC II with the
previous adjustment program and with the CAS objectives, the coherence of the operation with Bank



                                                      - 4 -

projects and other donors' programs, and the innovative menu based approach to reforms. The risks
identified in the CAS strategy were also carefully taken into account in SAC II.

3.5.2 Consistency with SAC I and the CAS. The reforms supported under SAC II built directly on SAC I
achievements. This enhanced the credibility of the reforms. They addressed the objectives central to the
1997 CAS by contributing to a visible economic opening and private sector development, as well as to
improved public finance and poverty reduction. These objectives still remain highly relevant today.

3.5.3 Link with World Bank Projects and Donor Coordination. SAC II reforms were designed to be
complementary to several Bank projects. PAIGEP, a capacity building project with a multi-sector action
plan, supported reforms in the judiciary sector and of public finances, and provided institutional support to
improve economic management. For the latter component, PAIGEP's support consisted in strengthening the
Secrétariat Technique à l'Ajustement (STA) in policy supervision and the statistical institute INSTAT to
enable it to produce reliable statistical data. Another Bank project, PATESP, played an important role in
supervising privatization and liberalization in key sectors and included severance programs and payments
as well as opportunities for local ownership. The project financed the technical team in charge of
privatizing state enterprises and prepared retraining programs for retrenched staff. Finally, SAC II was in
line with other donors' programs: (i) the IMF supported macroeconomic stabilization policy with the ESAF
and PRGF, and; (ii) the EU developed complementary private sector development programs, as well as
budget and social programs (health and education), which enhanced the likelihood of important pay-offs.

3.5.4 Risk Assessment. The MoP spelled out very clearly and openly the risks affecting the operation (MoP
para 51). A number of risk mitigating factors helped some ­ but not all ­ of these risks not to materialize.
Firstly, the operation benefited from the lessons learned in SAC I implementation. Significant up-front
actions and multiple tranche releases were included to avoid loosing financial leverage after disbursement.
Secondly, the initial time frame of the operation was made to coincide with the electoral calendar to ensure
that the reforms were implemented while political will was more likely and not hampered by election
concerns. Unfortunately, the pace of reforms slowed and as a result, the presidential elections in December
2001 were in advance of the extended closing date. The political and economic fallout of the contested
elections impacted significantly on the economic achievements of Madagascar in 2002. Thirdly, Bank
projects supported the Government's technical assistance needs, contributing to the reduction of the risks of
resistance to the opening up of the economy (PATESP) and of weak implementation capacity (PAIGEP).

3.5.5 Design. SAC II supported a broad array of important sector reforms, which had restrained economic
activity in Madagascar. In hindsight, the operation was perhaps too broad given the chosen time frame (2
years) and the possibly weak implementation capacity of the administration. Indeed, not only were the
reforms technically complicated (particularly in privatization), but they also necessitated efficient, rapid
actions and political courage. To a large extent, the task team attempted to address these shortcomings by
allowing    for   flexibility (through    the   menu-based    operation/floating   tranches),   by    ensuring
complementarities between the proposed reforms and technical assistance projects as well as other donor's
programs, and through SAC II's coherent linkage with SAC I achievements. Questions can also be raised
with respect to the design of the privatization agenda. Linking the privatization to the transfer of assets had
the potential to exert pressure on Government in the delicate process of negotiation, thereby undermining
the Government's bargaining position. However, considering the experience with Government commitment
to previous privatizations under SAC I (the national banks), the risk was justifiable.

1
  TELMA in the telecommunication sector, SOLIMA in the oil sector, and Air Madagascar in the air transport
  sector.




                                                     - 5 -

2 During the crisis, Madagascar did not meet the IATA membership clearing house and tickets were not accepted
  by other airlines.
3
  The government has planned to withdraw the second tranche when 350 destroyed primary schools in the 10 most
  heavily damaged schools districts and 33 of the 82 destroyed primary health centers were rehabilitated,
  appropriately equipped and staffed.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The political crisis in Madagascar in 2002 had multiple adverse economic and social effects. These
developments, though entirely unrelated to SAC II reforms, had an important impact on some of the
"target" outcomes of SAC II. In order to control for these distortions, the evaluation considered
outputs/outcomes only until 2001. 2002 data were analyzed in terms of qualitative achievement relating to
the revised conditions in the credit restructuring.

4.1.2 The operation is rated satisfactory. Already in December 2001, most of the development objective
indicators had been met. SAC II succeeded in consolidating the foundations for sustained growth and
poverty reduction in the medium-run.


Table 1: Improving Growth Performance (%)

                                    1995     1996   1997     1998    1999     2000     2001    2002
  Real GDP growth at MOP             1.8      2.0    3.0      3.9     4.5      5.3      5.6      -
  market prices           ICR        1.7      2.1    3.6      3.9     4.7      4.8      6.0    -12.7

4.1.3 The first objective of reaching high economic growth based on private investment, particularly on
foreign direct investment, was achieved. Actual performances exceeded the defined targets. Economic
growth was on an upward trend during the operation and surpassed the objective in 2001 before dropping
sharply in 2002 due to the political crisis (Table 1). Private investment grew by double-digit figures
between 1999 and 2001 and the public investment/private investment ratio declined from 1.14 in 1998 to
0.6 in 2001 (Table 2).

4.1.4 Reforms under SAC II contributed to the surge in private investment, particularly to that of FDIs.
Visible and decisive policy changes, through the privatization process and the reforms aiming at private
sector development, improved State credibility, restored investors' confidence and encouraged investment
inflows (Annex 11). FDIs increased from 0.4 % in 1998 to 2 % of GDP in 2001, largely through foreign
participation in the privatization process and/or investments in the textiles and clothing sector (Table 2).
More than 100,000 jobs were created in the sector with significant backward and forward spillovers to
local businesses (particularly small and medium enterprises). Thanks to the liberalization of the air
transport sector, the tourism sector also expanded considerably with a sharp increase in the number of
visitors (from 100,000 in 1997 to 170,000 in 2001), resulting in a more-than-doubling of tourism related
foreign exchange earnings and an increasing number of hotels and tourism related employment (Annex 14).
Equally, estimate of investments in the petroleum sector reached the equivalent of US$ 12 million after the
privatization was completed. The annual growth rates in the telecommunications sector were remarkable
(11,4% in 1998; 11% in 1999, 8,6% in 2000 and 5,6% in 2001), thanks to the liberalization of the latter
sector and the investments carried-out by the four cellular phone providers as well as the induced expansion
of TELMA.




                                                    - 6 -

Table 2: Increase in Private Investments (% of GDP)

                                       1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002
                                                                                                 (Est.)

 Public Investment (1)                  6.8       6.5       7.9      6.9       6.7       7.3       4.8
 Private Investment (2)                 4.9       6.3       6.9      8.0       8.3      11.2       9.4
 Ratio (1/2)                            1.39      1.03     1.14     0.86       0.8       0.6        0.5
 Net private FDIs (in million US$)       -        14        16       58        70         93        8.5
 Annual growth rates in the textiles     -         -       16.5     20.2       24.8     34.7      -81.1
 and clothing sector/GDP



4.1.5 Madagascar managed to break away from its dismal growth performance of the past, and the
economic contraction of 2002 was essentially circumstantial. Similarly, worsening poverty was halted and
the conditions for effective poverty reduction in the medium term were put in place. The national poverty
headcount rate decreased from 73 % (1997) to 71 % (1999) and 69 % (2001) but the economic expansion
mostly benefited the urban population and the urban poor. Rural poverty stagnated and rural extreme
poverty increased in the same time period. This is most likely largely due to the negative exogenous shocks
(oil shocks, cyclones and drought in the South) which had an adverse impact on the living conditions of the
rural poor (Annex 12). The relatively low poverty reduction efficiency of growth in Madagascar also
suggests that growth maximizing strategies alone are not sufficient to achieve broad-based poverty
reduction.

4.1.6 SAC II reforms partially smoothed-out the impact of the 2002 political and economic crisis. Due to
advanced structural reforms in a number of sectors, the impact of the political crisis on public finances was
mitigated, leaving room for other priority expenditures during the reconstruction period. For example, the
completed privatization of SOLIMA relieved Government from financial losses in the petroleum sector due
to the crisis. Reforms under SAC II had also put in place a conducive medium to longer-run framework for
sustained economic performance. Improved business environment coupled with better governance, and the
enforcement of effective regulatory frameworks helped improve performance in key sectors rapidly after the
crisis (fishing and mining sector). Recovery in the export processing zones is ongoing but is also very likely
faster than had reforms supported under the credit not taken place. Already, a number of new American
and Mauritian companies have begun to invest in Madagascar's textile sector due to the favorable
post-crisis investment climate.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 7 -

4.2.1 Macroeconomic management

Macroeconomic management is rated satisfactory (Annex 9). The actions for macroeconomic stabilization
were supported by the two PRGF programs of the IMF during the operation (1996/2000)/(2001/04), which
aimed to achieve consolidated fiscal deficits and low inflation. Good macroeconomic performances
improved the predictability for private sector investors, helped the country achieve a good growth
performance, and was a precondition for reaching the HIPC decision point in December 2000. Strong
export performance, surging FDIs coupled with improved terms of trade strengthened the balance of
payments and the net foreign asset position of the banking system as well as external reserves. The fiscal
deficit decreased steadily from 1998 to 2000 due to increased revenues and lower than projected
expenditures. Although increasing, tax revenues still fell short of targets due to weaknesses in customs
administration (especially in secondary ports) and exogenous developments ­ lower petroleum
consumption, the continuing appreciation of the exchange rate and the streamlining of tariffs in line with
                                                                  4


the Cross-Border Initiative/Regional Integration (COMESA) as well as a widespread fraud in the run up of
the 2001 presidential elections . Moderate fiscal deficits combined with a conservative monetary policy
                                 5


contained inflation to a low level. Finally, the privatization of the primary state-owned bank played a key
role in lowering inflationary money creation.

4.2.2. Privatization

The Government completed up-front actions prior to Board presentation. The sales protocols of BTM were
signed on November 24, 1999 and the Council of Ministers approved the social compensation program.
Despite delays in the privatization in the telecommunications and oil sectors (see 3.4.2), and the
reformulation of Air Madagascar privatization, the existence of operational and effective regulation
allowed for the opening-up of key sectors and accounted for significantly improved sector performance by
2001 (see below). In this light, and given that effective economic liberalization leading to improved sector
performance was the actual goal behind the privatization agenda (see 3.1.5), the privatization component is
rated satisfactory.

a)       Petroleum
The privatization of SOLIMA is rated satisfactory. The regulatory framework became operational in 1999,
following the establishment of the regulatory body (OMH). While the bids for petroleum lots had been
launched in November 1998 and the winning bidders had been notified in January/February 1999,
SOLIMA's effective privatization was considerably delayed due to a cumbersome process of clarifying
asset ownership and the implementation of a new retail oil price formula. In addition, the petroleum assets
to be privatized were divided into four lots (refinery, aviation, distribution and logistics), which meant that
the contracts had to be signed at different dates. The delay in the privatization process exerted an undue
pressure on the Government to reach the effectiveness of the credit and led to a substantial decrease of the
privatization receipts . Full ownership of oil and gas operations was transferred to the private sector in
                       6


2001. The distribution of petroleum products and service stations all over the country are now being
managed by four private companies, two of which are major worldwide distributors. The sale of petroleum
lots led to visible client benefits. Investment in the distribution network reached the equivalent of US$ 12
million (cumulative 1999 to 2001) and more than 50% of gas stations in the country now meet international
standards (Annex 13). Transfer of key non-petroleum lots of SOLIMA was only partially completed and
the compensation program for retrenched staff is still under way. However, the overall achievement
compares favorably to these few shortcomings, which had negligible impact on the success of the operation.




                                                      - 8 -

b)       Air transport
Reforms in the air transport sector are rated satisfactory. A series of decrees (99-123/126/821) established
the regulatory authority (ACM) and defined its role, which consists in enforcing standards and competition
as well as security, in promoting competition in the sector and in ensuring the regulation of international
traffic. This allowed for an effective opening up of the air transport sector: six international airline
companies are now operating in Madagascar . Flight frequency increased, and hence the number of tourists
                                              7


also rose dramatically (Annex 14). In the last semester of 2002, the Government placed Air Madagascar
under private management in the form of an operating contract for two years with Lufthansa Consulting.
The new strategy (conclusion of a management contract for Air Madagascar with a reputable operator),
was proposed to and approved by the Board of Executive Directors through an amendment of the original
Development Credit Agreement on September 26, 2002. The contract imposed obligations on the operator
to improve the company's financial and technical performance. In the last quarter of 2002, a business plan
for the company in the short and the medium term was finalized and a Air Madagascar creditor's
conference has resulted in halving the company's debt.

c)       Telecommunications
Privatization   of    TELMA      is   rated satisfactory.   The    Government     completed   the   specific
prior-to-Board-presentation measures. The regulatory body (OMERT) was operational in 1997 (decree
96-034) and the sector was liberalized in 1998 with the granting of four cellular licenses . Decrees
                                                                                                 8


governing application of the Law on the liberalization of the Telecommunications sector (99-227) were
adopted in 1999. The privatization of TELMA was greatly delayed by problems concerning the legalization
of land and building titles and by two other major setbacks from 2001 onwards: (i) a court case, initiated
by one of the bidders (France Telecom), challenging the legal procedures of the bid, and; (ii) the political
and economic crisis in 2002. Although the winning bidder was appointed in December 2001, the asset
transfer contract is expected to be signed only by the end of the second semester of 2003. Nevertheless, the
Telecommunication sector currently offers better services (Annex 13): the penetration rate in the sector
increased from 0.27 to 1.30, and the number of lines per employee in the sector increased from 15 to 24.
The fixed line waiting period was reduced from 7.5 months to 2 months and long distance calls cost
decreased markedly. Hence, the original goal of improving sector performance was achieved.

4.2.3 Private Sector Development

a)       Mining Sector
Mining sector reforms are rated satisfactory. The Government completed the up-front action required by
the Bank by returning the OMNIS license to the State in 1999 (decree 99-697). In the same year, the
Government also set up the Mining Cadastre Office (MCO) in charge of managing in a transparent way the
granting and holding of licenses, of enforcing security of tenure of mineral property, and of disclosing
information to the public. A new mining code based on the "first come, first served" allocation principle in
risk areas was passed by the Assembly in March 2000 (decree 2000/170). The code details the application
of bidding procedures for license applications in areas of recognized potential. The list of issued and
rejected licenses is now published in a transparent manner in all MCO offices and on the MCO web site.
The reforms reduced the duration of permit application to 35 days and the existing backlog of permit
applications from 80% in 1999 to 15% in July 2001.

b)       Fishery and Forestry sectors
Fishing and forestry reforms are rated satisfactory. Up-front actions required by the Bank were completed
with the adoption of a transparent, competitive and non-discretionary license delivery system before the
fishing campaign of the year 2000 (decree 2000/425). Fees for licenses granted in 1999 were readjusted



                                                     - 9 -

accordingly and public revenues from fisheries increased by more than 100% between 1998 and 2000. In
order to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resource, the Government froze the number of fishing
licenses in Madagascar, respecting the 1998 allocation by zone and boat-type per firm. An audit of the
FDHA was completed in 2001 and the recommendations were distributed among the projects under the
FDHA umbrella. However, so far the Government has not taken steps to implement the recommendations
included in the audit. From 2000 onwards, the Government used 80% of FDHA receipts for counterpart
funds of donor funded projects in the sector. An on-going study, carried-out by the Programme National
de Recherche Crevettière will determine the necessary change in the number of licenses to ensure a
sustainable exploitation of the shrimp potential in Madagascar. Reforms in the fishery sector led to a
diversification of fish exports with the share of shrimp in total exports decreasing from 90% (1998) to 73%
(2001). Since August 10, 2002 a license allocation system similar to that of the fishery sector was adopted
for the forestry sector. The Government also withdrew all illegal fishery and forestry licenses which had
been issued by sub-national governments during the political crisis in 2002. Recently, to emphasize the
transparency of license allocation, the Government published the names of all license holders in the forestry
sector in the newspapers (Midi Madagasikara and Tribune on April 11-12, 2003).

c)      Judiciary sector and Business Environment
Business environment and judicial reforms are rated satisfactory. With respect to justice, a study
carried-out by the Government in November 2000 contained recommendations to improve the functioning
of the justice system and the caseload management. An action plan was submitted to the Bank in December
2001 and deemed satisfactory. However, implementation of the action plan has not commenced. Instead, a
national forum on justice is to be organized to discuss exclusively the issue of expedited proceedings and
the recommendations of this forum would form the basis for a new action plan to be implemented.
Nevertheless, the Government had undertaken a number of important reforms to improve caseload
management before the approval of the action plan. Measures already taken included: (i) the elimination of
the proportional tax on court judgments (Law 99-032); (ii) the review and reconciliation of budget items
relating to legal personnel with the actual number of positions (completed in October 2000), and; (iii) the
determination of the costs of postal fees for judicial oversight. Finally, the budget allocation to the Ministry
of Justice increased from Mgf 15 billion in 2000 to Mgf 20 billion in 2002 in nominal terms. Regarding the
business environment reforms, an Arbitration Law to settle commercial disputes was adopted by the
National Assembly in 2000 and complemented by the creation of the Centre d'Arbitrage et de Médiation
(Law 98-019). Madagascar thereby met the up-front requirements for credit effectiveness. A consultative
process involving the private sector resulted in an action plan and the Government has achieved substantial
progress in executing the action plan to date: (i) procedures for enterprise creation are now available to the
general public and published in all concerned line ministries; (ii) the Centre de Facilitation de Création
des Entreprises (CFCE) was created in 1999 to provide guidelines to investors; (iii) the Centre
Inter-Ministeriel du Secteur Privé was created in 2001 to avoid that repetitive information is required
multiple times by various ministries and agencies. As a result, company registration now involves 4
bureaus as opposed to 10 in 1999; company registration takes 5 days and work permits are generally
completed within 15 days; (iv) environmental appraisal for the concerned activities is simplified, with a
clear distribution of the respective roles of the different line ministries. The procedures to be followed for
environmental appraisals are now published in booklets available to the general public.

As recommended in the Annex 4 of the MoP, the resident mission team conducted a survey to assess the
impact of the reforms on investors' perception of the business environment (Annex 11). The results
indicated that according to the majority of the interviewed enterprises, government actions between 1998
and 2001 had a positive impact on private sector activities and improved trust in the judiciary system.

d)      Liberalization


                                                     - 10 -

After much internal discussion within Government, a law governing the fiscal regime of large mining
projects above Mgf 1 trillion was finally adopted by the Ministerial Council (Law 2001-031). The law was
passed by Parliament in November 2001, by the Senate on August 8 and will be followed by decrees. The
envisioned reform was hence successfully completed.

4.2.4 Strengthening revenue policy

Reforms of revenue policy are rated unsatisfactory. A Technical Unit on Revenue Monitoring was created
in the Ministry of Budget (decree 3096/2000) in March 31, 2000 with the support of an IDF grant from
IDA. For the year 2001, an annual report was submitted to the Association in December 2001, using all
available data on tax revenues at the central and decentralized levels and showing detailed trends in tax
collection over the past five years. The Unit was dissolved in 2002 during the political crisis but despite
resumption of the IDF grant in the last quarter of 2002, the Government has not been able to revive the
unit. The targeted outputs in the MoP were not reached (Annex 13) as the difference between actual and
theoretical/projected collection worsened from 107% in 1999 to 84% in 2000 and to 74% in 2001. The
MoP also specified that the share of imports under the suspensive regime in total imports would decrease
from 50% to 40%. The realization of this share is unknown at this point, however.

4.2.5 Monitoring progress on social spending

Reforms in social expenditures management are rated marginally satisfactory. The Government completed
the up-front actions required by the Bank by changing the budget nomenclature to match Budget Law and
Treasury accounting. A credit delegation for the education and health sectors designed to speed up the
allocation to remote districts was effective in 2000 and a Technical Monitoring Unit of social expenditures
was set up in the ministries of Health and Education from 2000 onwards. The Unit has produced three
monthly monitoring reports of social expenditures starting in April 2000, distinguishing between specific
budget items and functions. A tracking survey was conducted by the Government to analyze the proportion
of recorded budget flows reaching primary education and health centers in 2001. The reforms have
permitted to improve Government budget commitment in the education sector but not in the health sector.
In hindsight, implementation did not reflect the spirit of the original objectives as these initiatives did not
result in the expected corrective action plan to improve the pattern and the efficiency of the spending in the
social sector. Particularly, in the education sector, no community school has received direct support as
spelled out in the MoP (Annex 13).

4.2.6 Anti-corruption measures

Reforms in public financial management are rated satisfactory. The Government required ministers, senior
officials and judges to issue annual declarations of their assets and that of their close relatives (decree
2002/1127). An anti-corruption task force was created (decree 2002/1128) with clearly identified terms of
reference as specified in the Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement and a free telephone line is
available to the general public to report acts of corruption.




                                                     - 11 -

4.2.7 Public Financial Management

As required by the restructured credit agreement, the Government took major steps to improve public
financial management, especially that of the presidential Special funds: (i) a report about the use of Special
funds for the year 2002 was completed and submitted to the Association on August 12, 2002; (ii) another
report containing a list of measures to tighten the use of Special funds in the future was produced and
submitted to the Bank on October 4, 2002, and; (iii) the Chambre des Comptes was mandated to conduct
semi-annual audits of the Special funds. Finally, the ministries of Finances and Budget were merged in
order to improve budget planning (decree 2002-451). Recently, a CFAA Bank mission further scrutinized
and strengthened the measures to prevent overspending of the Special funds. So far the measures have been
properly enforced.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the operation is judged substantial based on improvements in the
legal framework and on the creation of institutions for promoting economic development. Among these are
(i) the regulatory bodies set-up to oversee competition in the liberalized sectors (telecommunications, air
transport, petroleum, fishing, mining); (ii) strengthened internal control functions of central Government.
Similarly, social expenditures management improved with the setting up of the technical monitoring unit.
The process is being enhanced under the HIPC framework.

4.6 Supplemental credits
4.6.1 Supplemental Cyclone Credit

This credit is rated unsatisfactory. Although the credit did help the Government from a macroeconomic
perspective to remain on the reform course by financing an unforeseen balance-of-payments and fiscal
deficit, the specific conditions, as to when this supplemental credit would be judged as satisfactory, were
not met. Only a fraction of the targeted reconstruction of damaged schools and health centers were achieved
and many of the reconstructed infrastructure remained not operational as teachers or nurses were missing.
The latest INSTAT survey indicated that only 33 of the 82 destroyed primary health centers (CSB1) met
the conditions while only 99 primary schools out of 350 were functional. Similarly, the announced
participatory monitoring of the reconstruction effort did not materialize as planned and beneficiary groups
met only a few times.

4.6.2 Supplemental Petroleum Credit

This credit is rated marginally satisfactory. As reported in the PSR 7, the major objective of retaining
macroeconomic stability was achieved. However, during an IMF mission in the last quarter of 2002, the
Government      announced that counterpart funds worth half the credit amount had not been used by
Government as had been intended (either for the repayment of debt of the petroleum company or to help
ease the price increase for consumers). Instead, it had been used for reducing the budget deficit.

4
 The real exchange rate appreciated by 10 % during 2001.
5
 IMF article IV in September 2002.




                                                     - 12 -

6
 The initial sales price was US$ 83 millions; actual payments totaled only around US$ 35 millions.
7
 Air France; Air Austral; Air Mauritius; Corsair; Comores Air Service and Interair.
8
 As of December 1998, the four companies are Sacel, Antaris, Madacom and Intercel.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Several exogenous shocks impacted on the reform program. First, a strong increase in oil prices impacted
on the goal of price stability. Second, the cyclones of April 2000 caused considerable damages, higher
import needs and lower export receipts. Both external shocks required supplemental credits. Third, the
September 11, 2001 events considerably affected Air Madagascar's prospects of finding a suitable buyer.
This necessitated a restructuring of the reform condition.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Firstly, the selective lack of commitment of the client hindered proper implementation of some anticipated
reforms, including the reforms in social expenditures management and those of the revenue policy.
Secondly, the major obstacle to implementing the program was the political and economic crisis in 2002:
the country was paralyzed and no activities could take place for six months. The country experienced a
reversal of progress made with respect to growth and poverty reduction. Thirdly, difficulties in clarifying
assets delayed considerably the privatization process at the initial stages of the operation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
see 5.2

5.4 Costs and financing:
n.a.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The nature of the measures adopted under SAC II and the commitments of the new Government
suggest that several of the most important reforms are likely to be sustainable. Reforms implemented
during the operation gave impulse to important changes in the economy.

6.1.2 Madagascar has taken important steps in reforming its economy as evidenced by the disengagement
of the State from key sectors, leaving more room for the private sector and ensuring better governance.
Civil society is now more involved in the development process and participates actively in policy-making.
Reforms of public financial management and public expenditures, particularly in the social sectors, become
of paramount importance. Monitoring and control of public funds and tracking poverty-reducing public
expenditures are receiving particular attention in the context of HIPC. Actions are currently taken by the
Government to improve state accountability and public spending efficiency with the assistance of donors.

6.1.3 The new authorities are now carrying out important reforms, showing willingness to reform beyond
their obligations under the credit restructuring of 2002. As regards liberalization, the Government recently
announced the concessioning of two main airports and re-launched the granting of industrial and tourist
zones. This type of policy had been extended to the railroad company and the main ports in Madagascar.
These initiatives, with the progress achieved in streamlining administrative procedures and the continuing
reforms in the judiciary sector, are positive signals to the private sector. They are likely to consolidate
favorable conditions for sustained growth.




                                                       - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A new assistance strategy of the Bank in the coming years will build on many of the reforms completed
under SAC II and it will pay particular attention to helping Government improve financial management and
fight corruption. The program will help Madagascar further reform its justice system and public financial
management, particularly with respect to oversight and control.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 SAC II was designed by Government and the Bank during a period of growth resumption where
certain reforms, commenced and focused on under CAS I, were bearing fruit, and the urgency to complete
the set of first generation reforms was imminent.

7.1.2 The Bank and Government agreed that a number of actions would be necessary preceding credit
effectiveness. While this requirement provided important impetus to keep the reform agenda moving, it also
led to a delay in effectiveness of the operation by one year. In hindsight, it might have been more advisable
to make the required (and well-selected) actions conditional for Board presentation of the credit. The Bank
provided the Government with needed financial support to maintain the reform program on track despite
several external shocks (supplemental credits).

7.1.3 The innovative floating tranches/menu-based program was an interesting lending instrument. It helped
the Government implement the heavy package of structural measures and provided much flexibility for the
disbursement of the second (floating) tranche. It had little impact on reaching third tranche disbursement,
though, as ­ by design ­ the borrower was to complete the totality of reforms described in the credit
agreement.

7.2 Supervision:
The implementation of reforms was closely supervised by the Bank. In correctly recognizing the complexity
of the operation, in maintaining constant dialogue with the borrower and in displaying a certain degree of
flexibility, the Bank helped support implementation of the reforms. However, the reform program
supported under this credit was large and ­ in comparison with other structural adjustment credits ­ also
quite difficult. While supervision was intense and permanent (especially since the task manager was based
in the field office), it invariably led to several actions being taken without appropriate follow-up from the
borrower or the Bank. For example, the action plan for the judiciary sector was submitted (and therefore a
disbursement condition fulfilled) but in the following, the Government did not implement the action plan
(even after the crisis ended). Similarly, while the unit of revenue policy had been created (and credit
conditionality fulfilled), the unit did not work in the desired way thereafter. It was dismantled during the
restructuring in the Ministry of Finance after the crisis. After the completion of the disbursement
conditions, supervision necessarily had to shift to remaining reforms and hence did not follow-up
appropriately on the continuation of earlier reforms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory. Some risks for the operation were appropriately assessed at entry
and mitigated throughout implementation. The Bank showed flexibility in implementation, employing
supplemental credits in the presence of external shocks and approving waiver, when necessary, to keep the
­ perhaps overly ambitious - reform program moving forward. Constant policy dialogue from the field
office provided frequent feed-back to the borrower. Coordination with other donors was very intense and is
judged good.




                                                       - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government took several actions which conveyed strong messages of its willingness to transform the
economy along the lines of SAC II proposed reforms. Such actions included for instance the preparation of
the privatization of the three State-owned companies as early as 1998 (MoP para 27). Borrower
commitment was also manifested by the request of Government, during the last phase of negotiations, to
add the telecommunications company TELMA to the list of companies to be privatized under the reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 Borrower implementation performance was not homogenous across the different supported reforms.
Ownership was lacking in the initial stages of air transport reform and in implementation of the agreed
measures to improve social expenditure allocation and revenue collection. Here, the Government focused
only on complying with the agreed actions rather than the intended spirit of the reforms. Additionally, the
reconstruction strategy after the passage of the cyclones in 2000 was not implemented as agreed.

7.5.2 However, this relatively weak performance in a few areas has to be balanced against: (i) the overall
achievement until 2001, given the limited time frame, the breadth of the wider reform program and the high
demands imposed on the scarce and weak capacity within the public sector for leading and managing
reforms; (ii) the renewed progress on the reform agenda following the political crisis in 2002; and (iii) the
commitment of the new authorities to carry-out some of the initial reforms which were dropped after credit
restructuring.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
see 7.5

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Government performance was satisfactory. The rating reflects the Government's implementation of the
prior actions which conveyed message of commitment and ownership, and implementation during the
operation, including Government's willingness to reform the economy beyond the agreed measures within
SAC II framework.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1. Growth remains an essential and indeed central ingredient in any realistic poverty-reducing program.
However, it does not necessarily lead to widespread poverty reduction and progressive distribution.
Madagascar, during the time period observed, is a good example of this phenomenon. To achieve pro-poor
growth requires not only a concern with accelerating economic growth, but also the existence of an efficient
mechanism of service delivery for those that are bypassed by this growth. Unless the growth poles
themselves reach the majority of the poor, such a mechanism is needed.

8.2 Policy based lending, coupled with floating tranches, gives flexibility to the borrower but it runs the
risk of engaging the borrower in too many parallel reforms. Flexibility is necessary when the package of
structural measures requires a very high level of political commitment. When the package of measures is
overloaded, though, prioritization becomes difficult as well as effective monitoring of reform progress.

8.3 The Bank should not make the transfer of assets a privatization conditionality for tranche
disbursement under structural adjustment loans. Linking the privatization to the transfer of assets
bears the risk of exerting an undue pressure and putting the Government in a weaker bargaining
position. In Madagascar, such pressure was present in the privatization of SOLIMA as a condition
for first tranche release of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit. With signaling effects for


                                                     - 15 -

private investors achieved through a number of Government actions, including the privatization of
the SOLIMA, the Bank consequently approved a waiver to the asset transfer condition of
TELMA, the telecommunication company, linked to the second tranche disbursement. The new
conditionality required Government only to invite the winning bidder to negotiate and not the
actual transfer of assets.

8.4 Supplemental credits to adjustment operations that provide needed balance-of-payments support can be
important tools to maintain the reform program on track. However, if they are linked to specific
Government expenditure measures (as was the case with the cyclone emergency credit for Madagascar),
they might not be the best financing instrument as Bank influence on reaching the stated objectives are
minimal due to the nature of adjustment support. Only in cases where programmatic lending through
budget support operations has a proven good record should such supplemental credits be considered.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
see Annex 14

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increases in foreign direct investment as a 1.7 % of GDP (2001)                  2.0 percent of GDP (2001) -- strong decline
share of GDP                                                                        during crisis

2. Increase in private investment (with        ratio 0.9 in 2001                    ratio 0.6 (2001); annual priv. invest. growth 8
public/private investment ratio declining)                                          percent until crisis;

3. growth increases to levels above 5 % by     growth of 5% by 2001                 6.0 (2001) but collapse in 2002 (-12.7)
2001.

4. Poverty reduction.                          not specified                        69% (2001) but increase to 75 % (2002)
                                                                                    during crisis

5. Sector objective telecom: penetration       0.90 (2001)                          1.30 (2002), including mobile phones
numbers increase significantly

6. Sector development objective Petroleum:     US$1.3 million                       US$12 million (cumulative 1999 to 2002)
investment level in distribution stations
7. Sector Development Objective: Air
Transport --
passenger prices                               20 % decline                         not achieved. Fares increased (to be
                                                                                    confirmed in ICR)

freight prices                                                                      unchanged




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Banking privatization completed                                                  Completed 11/24/1999


2. Privatization of all petroleum lots                                              distribution lots: June 2000; logistics: fall
                                                                                    2001. Several small lots not privatized.


3. TELMA privatized                                                                 Provisional adjudication: Dec 2001.
                                                                                    Expecting final sale: last semester of 2003


4. Air Madagascar privatized (in                                                    May 2002: management contract with
restructuring: reformulation -- management                                          Lufthansa
contract entered)


5. New fishing license system in operation                                          system operated successfully since 2000
6. New Mining Code and Large Mining Law                                             Mining Code (2000) and Law (2002) in effect


7. Audits of social security institutions                                           not achieved. Reform replaced Sept 2002
completed


8. Tourist and industrial zones offered to                                          not achieved. Reform replaced Sept 2002
private developers

1End of project




                                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable




                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              December 1998             7    (1) Country Director                 S               S
                                                (1) Resident Representative
                                                (1) Sector Manager
                                                (1) Task Manager
                                                (1) Mining
                                                (1) Fisheries
                                                (1) Public Sector Reform

 Supervision
              July 1999                 2    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
                                                (1) Economist
              November 1999             3    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
                                                (1) Fisheries
                                                (1) Economist
              March 2000                6    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
                                                (2) Economists
                                                (1) Privatization
                                                (1) Procurement
                                                (1) Operations
              March 2001               10    (1) Team Leader                      S               S
                                                (3) Privatization
                                               (1) Cyclone Reconstruction
                                               (1) Sr Counsel Lawyer
              06/19/2001                9    (1) Team leader                      S               S
                                                (1) Public Sector Reform
                                                (2) Privatization
                                                (1) Mining
                                                (2) Cyclone Reconstruction
                                               (1) Judicial Sector Reform
                                               (1) Social Expenditures
              09/17/2001                4    (1) Team Leader                      S               S
                                                (1) Privatization
                                                (1) Cyclone Reconstruction
                                                (1) Economist
              11/23/2001                6    (1) Team Leader                      S               S
                                                (1) Public Sector Reform
                                                (1) Privatization
                                                (1) Cyclone Reconstruction
                                                (1) Judicial Sector Reform
                                                (1) Mining

 ICR
              December 2002             3     (1) Team Leader                     S               S
                                                (1) Economist
                                                (1) Consultant




                                              - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N.A.                        181.08
  Supervision                            101                        350.51
  ICR                                      32                           45
  Total




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. President's Report on Madagascar - Second Structural Adjustment Project

 2. President's Report on Madagascar - Second Structural Adjustment Credit Project - Supplemental
Credit

 3. Aide-memoires and PSRs (in project files)

 4. Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) Cr. 3218-MAG

5. IMF Article IV 1999 - 2002




                                                 - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Ratings of output components and achievements of objectives



OBJECTIVES/ OUTPUTS                         Highly      Satisfactory Marginally Unsatisfactory  Highly
                                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Macroeconomic Stabilization                                   X
Privatization
Air Madagascar (restructured)                                 X
SOLIMA                                                        X
TELMA                                                         X
Private Sector Development
Liberalization                                               X
Mining                                                       X
Judiciary sector and Business environment                    X
Fishery-Forestry                                             X
Public Finances
Monitoring progress in social expenditures                                X
Anti-corruption measures                                      X
Strengthening revenue policy                                                           X
Public Financial Management                                   X




OBJECTIVES/ OUTPUTS                         Highly      Satisfactory Marginally Unsatisfactory  Highly
                                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Supplemental Cyclone Credit                                                          X
Supplemental Oil Credit                                                  X




                                                  - 25 -

Additional Annex 9. Comparison of selected Macroeconomic Indicators;

Projections (MOP) and Actuals (ICR)

Percentage of GDP                1996    1997     1998        1999        2000        2001     2002 (Est.)
GDP growth                 MOP     -       -        -             4.5      5.3        5.6           -
                           ICR    2.1     3.7      3.9            4.7      4.8        6.0         -12.7

                   10
Fiscal Deficit b.g         MOP     -       -        -             5.8      4.6         4.5          -
                           ICR    9.1     7.7      8.1            4.8      4.2        7.4          8.7

Tot. gov. Revenues b.g     MOP     -       -        -              11.8    13.0        13.7         -
                           ICR    8.7     9.7     10.6             11.4    11.7        10.0        7.3
(Tax revenue)              ICR    8.5     9.4      9.8             11.0    11.3        9.6         6.9
Total gov. exp.            MOP     -       -        -              17.7    17.7        18.3         -
                           ICR   17.8    17.4      18.8            16.2    15.9        17.3         15
External CAB (excl. Net    MOP     -       -        -             -7.3    -6.8        -6.6          -
official transfers)        ICR   -7.9    -7.7      -7.9           -6.6    -6.5        -2.0         -5.8


Annual           Inflation ICR    8.3     4.8      6.4           14.4      8.7        4.8         12.0
(year-on-year basis.)
Net domestic credit
  Government                     -1.0     3.3     20.1            6.3      2.8        10.5         9.1
  Economy                         1.3     6.7      0.4            3.1      9.2        6.1          3.0
Memorandum items
Millions of SDRs

Exports of goods and             360.6   366.7    382.6         425.9   628.5        757.9       406.0
NFS
Imports of goods and NFS         444.0  495.6     495.5         548.2    707.1      746.3       497.3

Millions of SDRs
Overall Balance                  -76.8   19.7   - 126.6          -9.9    -82.3       21.1         11.2


Gross official reserves          12.3    14.0       7.8           9.8     10.2      14.4          13.6
(Weeks of goods
and NFS)

Mgf/SDR                         5887.2  7013.6  7381.7        8585.8     8934.0    8385.8       8804.8
(period average)

Mgf/US.Dollar                    4061   5091    5441.4        6283.8     6773.3    6587.2       6696.2
(period average)


ToT(YR             84=100)       171.8  158.1    143.6          150.2    157.8       161.3         -
($US/LCU)

Billions of Mgf
NFA                             1043.4  1492.7   1091.1       1532.0     1866.9     2644.1      2651.1




10B.g: before grants, commitment basis, excluding cost of structural reforms and excluding change in arrears.




                                                      - 26 -

  Additional Annex 10. Policy/Measure Intermediate/Output


Conditions in the Original DCA             Amendments to       Amendments to the           Status of reforms
                                           the condition in condition in September 24,
                                            December 21,               2002
                                                2001
Actions prior to Board Presentation
(in the MoP)

(i) To sign a sales protocol for BTM;     None               None                      Met

(ii) To make changes in the budget        None               None                      Met
nomenclature in order to match Budget
Law and Treasury accounting ;

(iii) To adopt an Arbitration Law;        None               None                      Met
(iv) To publish inter-connection decree   None               None                      Met
between fixed and cellular operators;

(v) To approve a mining code, in          None               None                      Met
agreeable to IDA, by the council of
Ministers, precluding the state from
participating in productive activities
and limiting its role to promotion;

(vi) To increase license fees by 100      None               None                      Met
percent in 1999 relative to 1998, and
prepare a report on actual and potential
payments per firm. To commit to the
introduction     of     a    transparent,
non-discretionary,     and   competitive
mechanism for the allocation of fishing
licenses before the fishing campaign of
the year 2000. To limit the number of
licenses in the west coast to a total of
69 industrial and 36 artisanal, and to 6
industrial licenses in the east coast
(until completion of a sustainability
study),    respecting        the   1998
distribution of authorizations per zone
and boat for each firm.

Effectiveness

(i) to reduce the state participation in  None               None                      Met. The petroleum sector
the petroleum sector to 30%;                                                           is now operated by the
                                                                                       private sector
(ii) with respect to SOLIMA's non-oil     None               None                      Partially met
operations, to conclude contractual                                                    For some non-petroleum,
arrangements aimed at transferring the                                                 no contractual
ownership/use of the said operations to                                                arrangements were done.
private sector entities;



                                                      - 27 -

(iii) to set up a regulatory body and a   None                 None     Met. The regulatory body
regulatory framework;                                                   (OMH) now is fully
                                                                        operational
(iv) to adopt a methodology to compute    None                  None    Met
severance payments.

Second Tranche

CORE CONDITIONS
(i) To sell at least 34% of the voting    Changed: Receipt     None     Met. Sales protocol and
stock of TELMA to a qualified and         of letter inviting            signing contract on track
experienced private investor or a group   the winner of the
of investors;                             bid for negotiations

(ii) to set up a regulatory body and a    None                 None     Met. The regulatory body
regulatory framework.                                                   is fully operational

SIDE CONDITIONS
(i) Revenue Policy: to establish a Unit   None                 None     Not met
dedicated to monitoring of public                                       Under the activities of a Tax
revenue      through    the   collection,                               IDF project, a Technical

analysis and dissemination of all                                       Unit on Revenue Monitoring

relevant data pertaining to public                                      was created in the Ministry
                                                                        of Budget in March 2001. A
revenues, with adequate budgetary and                                   report was transmitted to
human     resources    and  shall  have                                 IDA on tax collection trends
established within the said unit a cell                                 in September 2001. A
to be responsible for formulating                                       division in the unit was
medium and long-term fiscal policy                                      responsible for formulating
under terms of reference satisfactory to                                medium and long term fiscal
the Association.                                                        policy but no activity has
                                                                        been reported. After the
                                                                        political crisis the technical
                                                                        unit was dissolved. No
                                                                        activity has
                                                                        been reported so far

(ii) Social sector expenditures: (a) to   None                 None     Partially met
establish an appropriate monitoring                                     A timely monitoring
system to capture the implementation                                    system for the social sectors
of the Borrower's social policies and                                   was put in place. In
expenditures     actually  incurred   for                               September 2000, INSTAT
primary education and basic health                                      carried out a tracking
with respect to the specific budget                                     survey to analyze the
items and sectoral policies specified in                                proportion of recorded
paragraph 24 of LDP, and; (b) to carry                                  budget flows reaching
out a survey based on a methodology                                     primary schools. However,
aimed at assessing the Borrower's                                       actual expenditures
performance in the delivery of primary                                  reaching the rural schools
education and basic health services                                     and health posts is
within its territory.                                                   unsatisfactory due to the
                                                                        absence of corrective
                                                                        measures
(iii) Enabling business environment




                                                        - 28 -

(a) on the basis of the results and       None         None                     The study was done and the
recommendations of its ongoing study,                                           action plan was approved.
based on a study (Etude sur les lenteurs                                        However, the Government
de la procédure judiciaire), to adopt an                                        did not take steps to
action   plan    to   improve   caseload                                        achieve progress in the
management within the judicial system                                           action plan. Early measures
and achieve substantive progress in the                                         were taken by the
execution of the said action plan;                                              Government in line with
                                                                                the action plan though.
(b) on the basis of a consultative        None         None                     Met
process involving all interested parties,
to adopt an action plan for the
purposes of streamlining formalities
and procedures required to carry out
economic      activities   and   achieve
substantive progress in the execution of
the said action plan;

(iv) Mining

(a) to enact a revised Mining Code,       None         None                     Met
including implementation decrees;

(b) to adopt a new and transparent        None         None                     Met
allocation of mining licenses.

Third Tranche

CORE CONDITIONS

(i) To sell at least of 65% of the voting None         Changed: to establish a  Met.
stock of Air Madagascar to a qualified                 performance-based        No backtracking
and experienced private investor or a                  management contract for
group of investors;                                    the management and
                                                       restructuring of Air
                                                       Madagascar
(ii) to set up a legal and regulatory     None         None                     Met
framework aimed at promoting a
business    environment     amicable   to
private sector investments, by having
revised, inter alia, in form and
substance       satisfactory   to     the
association, the laws and regulations;

(iii)  to    establish     air  transport None         None                     Met
regulatory authority with functions,
membership, budgetary resources and
adequate staffing satisfactory to the
association.

SIDE CONDITIONS

(i) Fishing Licenses.



                                                - 29 -

(a) to establish an appropriate system,    None         Clarified. A similar        Met.
satisfactory to the Association, to                     system was to be            In addition, for the forestry
allocate shrimp fishing licenses in a                   implemented for the         sector, the Government
non-discretionary,     competitive     and              forestry sector             published the names of al
transparent manner;                                                                 license holders and the
                                                                                    location of their
                                                                                    exploitation in newspapers
(b) to adjust annual shrimp fishing fees   None         None                        Met
for licenses granted for the 1999
fishing campaign in accordance with
the methodology adopted as a result of
the revamped licensing system referred
to above;

(c) to carry out the recommendations       None         None                        Financial audit of the
resulting    from    the   technical   and                                          FDHA was done. No steps
financial audits of the FDHA.                                                       have been taken to proceed
                                                                                    with the action plan
(ii) Liberalization

(a) Grant two airport concessions to       None         Dropped                     The Government is
qualified    and    experienced    private                                          carrying-out the reform
operators        under        contractual
arrangements      satisfactory   to    the
Association;

(b)      invite       telecommunications   None         Dropped (but the Bank has   Privatization on track
operators to bid for a license to provide               reserved the right to call
telecommunication services within the                   for a second national
Borrower's territory;                                   operator in case the
                                                        winning bidder for
                                                        TELMA will not carry
                                                        through announced
                                                        expansions of the network,
                                                        especially in rural areas)

(c) enact a law governing the fiscal       None         None                        Met
regime of mining projects whose
investment costs are estimated to
exceed 1 trillion Mgf;

(d) implement decrees required to give     None         None                        Decree is to follow
full effect to the law referred to in form
and substance satisfactory to the
Association;

(e) to invite airport operators to bid for None         Dropped                     The Government is
the concessioning of at least two                                                   carrying out the reforms
airport    infrastructure    within    the
Borrower's territory.

(iii) Financial Sector Reforms. (a) to     None         Changed: (i)                Audit of the insurance



                                                 - 30 -

carry out the financial, organizational               anti-corruptions actions    companies are completed.
and     actuarial   audits     through                (establishment of an        Audits of the social security
independent    consultants    for   the               anti-corruption task force; companies were not
insurance companies Ny Havana and                     passage of a legislation    completed. No steps have
Aro, and the social security funds                    requiring all ministers,    been taken so far to
CNaPS, CRCM, and CPR; and (b) to                      senior officials and judges implement the reforms
adopt an action plans to improve their                to regularly declare their  Revised conditions were
performance.                                          assets and those of their   all implemented. No
                                                      close relatives); (ii)      backtracking
                                                      measures to strengthen
                                                      public financial
                                                      management (completion
                                                      of a report on the
                                                      overspending of Special
                                                      funds credits in 2001; an
                                                      action plan to prevent any
                                                      possibility of such
                                                      overspending in the
                                                      future; legislation
                                                      mandating regular audits
                                                      of all special funds by the
                                                      Chambre de Compte; a
                                                      merger of the Budget and
                                                      Finance ministries)

(iv) Land tenure:

(a) Granting of five tourism and five    None         Dropped                     The Government is
industrial zones and invitation to bid                                            carrying-out the reforms
for the zones;

(b) Introduce modifications to improve   None         Dropped                     A decree notified the
the     functioning   of    the    bail                                           creation of the Guichet
emphytéotique (long term land lease):                                             Unique for granting of a
fraction payment of registration fees to                                          bail emphytéotique in 1998
make the process less expensive,and                                               and payment by
publish a guide/procedures manual.                                                installments of the tax
                                                                                  relating to the bail
                                                                                  emphytéotique (decree
                                                                                  99-032) was adopted. A
                                                                                  manual of procedures was
                                                                                  published to clarify the
                                                                                  allocation process and the
                                                                                  Guichets Uniques were set
                                                                                  up




                                               - 31 -

Additional Annex 11. Results of the replication of WDR surveys


Methods10

A descriptive analysis and the multifactorial analysis methods (AFC: Factorial Analysis of
Correspondence) were used to derive the conclusions of the surveys. The descriptive analysis gives a global
description of the survey's results while the multifactorial methods allow to obtain graphic representations,
which constitute the best summary of the information in the database.

Individuals contributing to an axis are mainly those who are at the extremities. An individual's angle is on
the factorial plan is null and the cos ² equals to 1. On the contrary, an orthogonal individual in each of the
axes of the factorial plan will have a cos ² null. All the individuals occupying intermediate positions
between these two extremities will have a cos ² between 0 and 1. The closer the cos ² to 1, the better the
individual is represented by its projection on the plan. Two points are said in positive correlation if they
form an angle, of which cosine is between                   and 1 (        = < 1) where             is the constant from which there is
a correlation (often superior to 0.60). They are negatively correlated, should the opposite occur (cosine
between 1 and ,        > = -1).



§         Analytical Approach




           1



                                        quest8su          quest9co
                                                                        quest10n

                                              quest7ou
                                                                  quest2s              quest4no

                                     quest10o


                    quest5as
                                                                              quest3noquest1nd

           0                                                                         quest8pa

  var41             quest2as quest1as               quest3ne    quest6s
                                                                  quest4ou         quest6nd
                           quest6as                      quest3ouquest1s                     quest7pa
                                                                                         quest2ndquest5nd

                                 quest7as
                            quest4aa
                                                      quest8pe


                                                      quest9au
                                                                     quest10p




           -1

               -1                                            0                                             1
                                                           var40




       According to the graphic, trust in justice (question 7) and satisfaction with respect to Government's
actions in its effort to improve business environment (question 1) are positively correlated to satisfactory
law enforcement (questions 4), better transparency and the predictability of laws governing business
(question 5) as well as the quality of access to the information on administrative procedures (question 2).



                                                                   - 32 -

Investors' decision to invest and stay in Madagascar does not have a clear relationship with all other
questions but is rather dependent of the other motives mentioned in the question 11 (concerns).

Results

  QUESTIONS                                 Abbreviation Frequency      Percentage    yes/no  total in %

  Question 1 1 Do not agree                    quest1nd       10           35.64       35.64    100
               1 Satisfactory                  quest1s         5           2.56        64.36
               1 Satisfactory enough           quest1as       22           58.97
               1 Entirely Satisfactory         quest1es        1           2.83
  Question 2 2 Do not agree                    quest2nd       21           56.41       56.41    100
               2 Satisfactory                  quest2s         5           12.82       43.59
               2 Satisfactory enough           quest2as       11           28.21
               2 Entirely Satisfactory         quest2es        1           2.56
  Question 3 3 Yes                             quest3ou       25           66.67       66.67    100
               3 No                            quest3no        6           15.82       15.82
               3 Do not know                   quest3ne        7           17.51       17.51
  Question 4 4 Yes                             quest4ou        1           2.57        35.9     100
               4 No                            quest4no       13           33.33
               4 To improve                    quest4aa       24           64.1        64.1
  Question 5 5 Do not agree                   quest5 nd       19           48.72       48.72    100
               5 Satisfactory                  quest5s         7           17.95       51.28
               5 Satisfactory enough           quest5as        6           15.82
               5 Entirely Satisfactory        quest5ees        0             0
               5 Entirely agree                quest5ea        7           17.51
  Question 6 6 Do not agree                    quest6nd       15           38.46       38.46    100
               6 Satisfactory                  quest6s        14           37.95       61.54
               6 Satisfactory enough           quest6as        8           21.03
               6 Entirely satisfactory         quest6es        1           2.56
  Question 7 7 yes                             quest7ou       12           30.77       51.28    100
               7 enough                        quest7as        8           20.51
               7 Not at all                    quest7pa       19           48.72       48.72
  Question 8 8Little                           quest8pe       15           38.46       38.46    100
               8 Enough                        quest8su        4           10.26       10.26
               8 Not at all                    quest8pa       19           51.28       51.28
  Question 9 9 No effect                       quest9au        8           20.82       20.82    100
               9 Positive effect               quest9ef       12           30.46       30.46
               9 High cost                     quest9co       19           48.72       48.72
 Question 10 10 Yes                            quest10o       12           30.88       30.88    100
               10 Wait-and-see phase           quest10p       17           43.59       43.59
               10 No                           quest10n       10           25.53       25.53



         The actions of the government had a positive impact on private sector's activities for 64 % of
interviewees: (i) regarding laws governing business in Madagascar, 51 % think that they are transparent
and predictable; (ii) procedures for business creation and granting of visas and work permits are flexible
for 62%; (iii) 51,28% of interviewees think that laws are more transparent, predictable and clearer, and;
(iv) law enforcement can be improved for 64%. These results are correlated to better investor's confidence
in justice with respect to property rights, defense of their interests and regulation of commercial disputes



                                                    - 33 -

(51 % of interviewees).

         However, involvement of investors in the definition of business regulation policies is not
satisfactory according to 51% of interviewees. In light of the correlation between the variables, it appears
that it depends on their access to the information on (unsatisfactory for 56% of inteviewees) and frequent
changes in administrative procedures (66% of interviewees).

                                                Conclusion

Reforms in justice and business environment were successful in improving State's credibility. They resulted
in better trust of investors to the Malagasy justice and improved their perception of the business
environment in Madagascar. However, effort should be put in inviting the private sector to participate in
policy-making. Further, information should be systematically disclosed to the general public. State's
credibility can also be improved by giving impulse to reduced changes in the administrative procedures to
carry-out business. Indeed, they are still in constant fear of policy surprise and have to cope with
unexpected changes in rules and policies ­ which is due in a large part to little private sector involvement in
the state's decision making process. Corruption increases the cost of private sector's activities. The results
of the survey indicated that efforts achieved in the past must be sustained and deepened to improve
investors' perceptions, which themselves directly determine investment behavior.

10The surveys were launched in January 2003. Out of 183 enterprises only 43 filled out the questionnaires.




                                                     - 34 -

Additional Annex 12. Income Poverty Developments 1997-2001 (Headcount Index %)



                                        1997           1999           2001
Poverty
             National (MoP)11             75            74.0           72.0
             National                   73.3           71.3           69.2
               Urban                    63.2           52.1           50.0
                Rural                   76.0           76.7           74.9
Extreme Poverty
             National                   63.1           61.7           61.1
              Urban                     54.0           43.2           42.5
              Rural                     65.6           67.0           66.5



11As of 1998.




                                        - 35 -

Additional Annex 13. Output indicators discussed during the review meeting

with line Ministries and STA


                       TARGETS                                     ACTUALS 2001
 Privatization    and
 Sector Liberalization

 Telecommunications     Penetration number increases from 0.37      1,30 for the sector
                        in 1999 to 0.90 in 2001                     (including cellular phone
                                                                    networks) Telma standing
                                                                    alone : 0,38

                        Number of line per employee increase from   24 (Telma)
                        15 in 1999 to 35 in 2001

                        Waiting period for fixed line declines from Telma: 1 week on
                        7.5 months in early 1999 to 4 in 2001       non-saturated area, otherwise
                                                                    might be 2 months

                        Cost of calls Antananarivo Paris decline by Full rate 11 250 Mgf/mn in
                        10% between early 1999 to 2001              2002 vs 15 000 Mgf/mn in
                                                                    1999

Air Transport           Round-trip passenger ticket                 Unmet
                        Antananarivo-Paris (tourist class, APEX     (1999: 6,500,000 Mgf
                        fare) declines by 20% between early 1999    2001: 6,916,500 Mgf
                        and 2001                                    equivalent US$ 1,050 average
                                                                    exchange rate 6,587.2 in 2001

                        Cost of freight per pound Antananarivo      Cost of freight did not change
                        Paris declines by 10% b/w early 1999 and    (-45 kg - 7,70 USD/kg);
                        2001                                        (+45kg - 5,80 USD/kg)

                        Cost of freight per pound between           Cost of freight did not change
                        Antananarivo-Johannesburg declines by       (-45kg - 1,95 USD/kg); (+45
                        10% b/w early 1999                          kg 1,47 USD/kg; (+100 kg1
                                                                    -26 USD/kg); (+1T 0,88 -
                                                                    USD/kg)

 Petroleum              30% increase in investment level in the     Estimate of investments
 Distribution           distribution network between early 1999     amounted to Mgf 77,260
                        and 2001                                    billion equivalent of 12
                                                                    millions USD for gas and
                                                                    petroleum distribution.

                        50% of service stations in the country meet Met
                        international standards by 2001

Side Conditions




                                                 - 36 -

Mining Sector          Mining authorization under exploitation as    Not available due to lack of
                       a share of total authorization increases from data at the level of central
                       25 to 50%                                     Ministry of mining

Fisheries              Shrimp share in sector declines from 90%      Shrimp share represented 73%
                       to 80%                                        of exports in 2000 and 2001

Land tenure            Total number of bails issued increase 100%    Overall target unmet
                       in Antananarivo, Antsiranana and              (0 in Antsiranana)
                       Tolagnaro between 1999 and 2001

                       Foreigners share in total bails issued        Met 58% (100% in
                       increases from 0 to 20%                       Antananarivo with 5 out of 5
                                                                     bails issued between 1999 and
                                                                     2001 for foreigners; 2 out of 7
                                                                     in Tolagnaro)

                       At least one tourism and industrial zones is  Unmet
                       being developed

Enabling               Replication of WDR surveys show greater       Overall satisfactory (see annex
Environment            overall satisfaction                          11).

Monitoring Progress in Actual recurrent non-salary expenditures      Actual recurrent non-salary
Social sectors         for primary education and health increase     expenditures for primary
                       from 80% in 1997 respectively to a            education and health increase
                       minimum of: 90% in 1999, and 98% in           from 80% respectively to 93%
                       2000 for both sectors                         and 81% in 2000

                       Community schools begin to receive            No community school received
                       government expenditures, and mostly for       direct support during the
                       rural schools                                 operation

                       Actual cost recovery, introduced in 1998,     Actual cost recovery increased
                       increased from Mgf 20 billion in 1998 to      up to Mgf 27 billion in 2000.
                       Mgf 50 billion in 1999 and 100 billion in     Data for 2001 is not available.
                       2000
Revenue Monitoring     Actual customs collection, common regime,     Ratio of actual/projected
and Policies           increase from 75% to 90% of the theoretical customs collection were 84%
                       share; the suspensive regime's share in total in 2000 and 74% in 2001; the
                       imports declines from 50% to 40%              share of suspensive regime is
                                                                     unknown.

Audits (Insurance      Action program discussed and agreed           Partially met. Audits of
companies and Social   with IDA based on audit                       insurance companies
security fund)         recommendations                               completed. Audits of social
                                                                     security funds were not
                                                                     completed




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 14. Performance of the tourism sector


                                         1996     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Number of jobs                           11103    11318  11655   12640   13628   14010
Foreign exchange earnings (million of     44.6    52.9    65.5    72.9    91.9    90.2
SDRs)
Number of visitors                       82,681  100,762 121,207 138,253 160,071 170,208
Hotel supply                                      451     482     556     644     695




                                           - 38 -

Additional Annex 15. Adjustment Dialogues and Timeline of Events


SAC I timeline of Events
Single Tranche release of SAC I                      April         1997
Closing Date for SAC I                              December       1998
ICR for SAC I                                        April         1999
SAC II preparation
Government request for SAC II
Board Approval of SAC II                             May           1999
Effectiveness of SAC II                              June          2000
Releases of SAC II tranches
First tranche release                                 July         2000
Second tranche release                              January        2002
Third tranche release                               October        2002
Project Restructuring Approval
Supplemental Cyclone Credit                           July         2000
Supplemental Oil Credit                             December       2000
One-year extension of SAC II                        October        2001
SAC II restructuring                               September       2002
Closing date for SAC II                             December       2002
Disbursement of project restructuring
Supplemental Cyclone Credit
           1st tranche                             September       2000
          2nd tranche                                 July         2002
Supplemental Oil Credit                              June          2001
SAC II restructuring                                October        2002
IMF programs
1st PRGF arrangement                              November         1996
2nd PRGF arrangement                                March           2001




                                         - 39 -

Additional Annex 16. Government's Contribution




                                        - 40 -

                                   REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
                                Tanindrazana ­ Fahafahana ­ Fandrosoana
                                                    -------

            EVALUATION OF THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                        BORROWER'S EVALUATION
                                                    -------


1.- After a break in relations for a few years stemming from a change in political direction in Madagascar,
the resumption of these relations by the Government with the Bretton Woods institutions took the form, in
1996, of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) agreement with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) and the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I), approved by the World Bank. The
economic recovery program, supported by this assistance, allowed the country to resume and strengthen
efforts to achieve the structural adjustment and macroeconomic stabilization efforts that were started in the
1980s. Despite a delay noted with respect to a number of measures, particularly in the area of the
privatization of public enterprises, as a result of a busy schedule of electoral activities in 1997 and 1998,
overall, the objectives of program were achieved or even surpassed, including the macroeconomic
objectives. Encouraged by this success, the Government and the World Bank decided to execute a Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II). Adopted in 1999, the Credit Agreement for an initial amount of
US$100 million and disbursable in three tranches of US$25, 30, and 45 million, respectively, was closed
on December 31, 2002. In the interim, two supplemental credit agreements were signed to complement the
SAC II: a credit for US$30 million to enable the country to cope with the 2000 oil shock, and another
amounting to US$20 million to rebuild the economic and social infrastructure affected by three cyclones in
the northern part of the country in 2000. The purpose of this note is to provide the Government's
assessment of the impact of the SAC II and its supplemental credits.

2.- Although in general terms the credit was granted to assist with the recovery of the national economy by
providing balance of payments and public finance assistance, it was linked, first and foremost, to the
implementation of a program that can be placed into three categories:
- Macroeconomic stability: the program supported by the SAC II did not set forth specific objectives; an
agreement concluded with the IMF was treated as guarantee of macroeconomic stability;
- Privatization of public enterprises. This key measure provides for the privatization of a major public
enterprise per tranche. The three companies identified were SOLIMA (distribution of petroleum products),
Air Madagascar (airlines), and TELMA (telecommunications). These three enterprises are mentioned in
Decree 97-584, which lists the enterprises to be privatized.
- Eight additional measures, four of which were linked to the development of the private sector and four, to
public finance. The release of the second and third tranches was contingent on execution of four of these
eight measures.

However, a number of measures contained in the SAC I had to be finalized even before submission of the
credit agreement to the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank. These measures (six), had to be
carried out in 1999 and included, among others, the privatization of the last public bank, the BTM, which
was provided for in the SAC I, but was not finalized until 1999 because of the need for a second round of
bidding caused by the withdrawal of the first successful bidder for the contract.

3.- The SAC II, as designed, was very ambitious and was supposed to serve as a catalyst for the economic
and social development of the country. The three enterprises to be privatized as part of the SAC II are
among the four biggest state-owned enterprises, while additional measures were supposed to increase


                                                    - 41 -

significantly the percentage of private investment and improve the public finance situation by increasing
revenue (the tax rate in Madagascar is one of the lowest in Africa) and improving the management of
public expenditure. Apart from underestimating the problems linked to the privatization of each company
as well as the 2002 political crisis, which could not be anticipated at the time of the signing of the
agreement, it must be acknowledged that execution of the entire program over a three-year period was very
ambitious and very optimistic. However, as we will see below, the good results obtained in 2000 and 2001
are largely attributable to execution of the measures recommended in the SAC II.

Macroeconomic stability

4.- The policy of openness and development of the private sector supported by the reforms as part of the
SAC II process has fostered the expansion of enterprises and an increase in their contribution to GDP
formation. In 2001, economic growth stood at 6 percent. 2002 was an unusual year because of social and
political unrest linked to electoral conflicts. At the same time, inflation slowed as a result of competition
and sound management of monetary policy.             Overall, criteria related to the money supply and its
counterparts, in this case government net loans, were followed in virtually all cases because of the control
exercised over public expenditure. There has been an upward trend in tax revenue although the objectives
were not always met. Tax reform, in particular reform of the VAT, as well as strengthening of the
oversight and auditing mechanism proved to be efficient, given the strong performance in the area of
domestic taxes. This trend has had an effect on tax collection over the past three years. Consequently, the
government deficit (commitment basis) averaged 1.8 percent of GDP between 1999 and 2001, compared to
4.7 percent in 1998. The events of 2002 had a major negative impact on public finance. Provisionally, the
deficit has been estimated at 4.9 percent of GDP. However, much work remains to be done. First, the
fiscal structure needs to be stabilized, inasmuch as it is the driving force behind private sector development.
After this, more emphasis needs to be placed on expanding the tax base and less on increasing rates. The
effectiveness of general taxes and their widespread application is thus essential. Efforts have been made in
this area, in particular with respect to awareness-building among taxpayers and the preparation of manuals
that target them. The integration of Madagascar into the different regional cooperation groups has led to a
decline in foreign taxes. Although the entities responsible for the harmonization of regional provisions with
national policy are working in this area, it is essential for capacity to be strengthened. The liberalization of
exports coupled with the effects of diversification and the reduction in taxes have brought the value of
exports from an average of SDR 604 million in the 1999-2001 period to 383 million in 1998. This was
reflected in an improvement in the external current account balance and a significant restructuring of
foreign exchange reserves representing the equivalent of 11.5 weeks of c.i.f. imports between 1999 and
2001, compared to 7.8 weeks in 1998.

Privatization

5.- In light of the fact that implementation of the privatization program had been delayed and involved, until
that time, only "small" companies, the World Bank suggested that the privatization of three of the biggest
companies in Madagascar, namely SOLIMA, Air Madagascar, and TELMA be established as a key
measure in the SAC II. It is up to the Government to indicate which company will be associated with each
tranche. If, in the absolute, the privatization of these three major companies was intended to demonstrate
the willingness of the Government to withdraw from the productive sector and concentrate only on its
essential missions; the reality is that, aware of the Government's desire for the speedy release of the credit,
potential buyers have used this "conditionality" to exert pressure: bargaining with respect to prices,
demanding certain advantages, an overly restrictive social plan, threats of withdrawal, etc.

6.- In the case of SOLIMA in particular, the privatization of which was a condition linked to the first


                                                      - 42 -

tranche, it turned out that neither the Government nor the World Bank could anticipate all the problems that
arose with this activity. Many conditions for privatization were not met, and a succession of company
officials had failed to regularize the situation following the nationalization of a petroleum companies that
were privately owned in the 1970s. Moreover, it took a long time to formulate the privatization strategy.
Uncertainty in a number of areas clouded the bidding process for the four individual contracts for the
distribution network. The result was protracted negotiations with the buyers selected, a situation that was
compounded by the pressure indicated above. Finally, it took more than one year after notification for the
contracts to be signed, a condition for release of the first tranche. Currently, despite a number of details to
be finalized from a logistical standpoint and with respect to the social plan, it can be said that the
privatization of SOLIMA has met the country's expectations: not only have the petroleum companies
resumed distribution, they have all invested in the modernization of the network in order to make it more
efficient, to the satisfaction of users. Furthermore, the petroleum bill is no longer an onerous one for the
State, this being the complete responsibility of the distributors.

7.- The privatization of TELMA was the main condition for release of the second credit tranche. As was
the case with the other two companies, legal problems existed, particularly with respect to land rights.
However, another important issue made the privatization of TELMA a rather sensitive one: the French
company France TELECOM held 34 percent of the share capital in TELMA. This fact did not, however,
accord it the right of first refusal in the bidding process in which it participated. Challenges by France
TELECOM as well as TELMA employees regarding award of the contract to DISTACOM delayed
finalization of the privatization process. However, because it had been agreed that meeting the condition
involved award of the contract (choice of the buyer), the third credit tranche was released in December
2001, just before the electoral crisis of 2002. The process was suspended during the crisis and discussions
did not resume until the second half of 2002. At the moment, the privatization process still has not been
completed, and TELMA continues to operate, along with three mobile telephone companies (the fourth
merged with one of the three companies), under the control of the regulatory office OMERT [Office
Malgache pour l'Etude et la Régulation des Télécommunications].

8.- The company identified for privatization as a condition for release of the third credit tranche was Air
Madagascar. The process began smoothly under the oversight of the privatization committee, and a
technical entity was chosen. However, this entity failed to cover all the aspects of the problem in its study
and many important points were either overlooked or clear solutions were not offered, such as the handling
of the Boeing 747, the property status of the company, etc. Furthermore, it must be recognized that
resistance was coming from inside the company, a situation that was compounded by the fact that contact
between the privatization institutions and the decision-making entities of the company was inadequate or
even sporadic. However, while discussions were underway to finalize the privatization strategy, the
international situation in the airline industry was changing. Many airlines were declaring bankruptcy all
over the world and potential buyers were becoming increasingly scarce. Prospects for the privatization of
Air Madagascar took a sharply negative turn after September 11 in the United States. The Government
and the World Bank therefore agreed to change the condition; instead of privatizing the company, a
decision was made to enter into a management contract with a company that had experience in this sector.
Top officials at Air Madagascar were asked to prepare a business plan that would serve as the basis for the
contract. It took a long time for this to be done, and the political crisis that developed during the first half
of 2002 jeopardized adoption of the plan. Following the crisis, the President of the Madagascar decided to
ask the German company Lufthansa Consulting to manage the company. The World Bank approved this
provision and, as a result, the second credit tranche was released. One of the measures adopted by the new
management company was to bring together all of Air Madagascar's creditors and secure from them an
agreement to write off 50 percent of the debt owed to them. At the moment, the company is resuming
normal operations, much to the satisfaction of its clientele, has resumed the three weekly long-haul flights,


                                                     - 43 -

and has managed, despite everything, to maintain a number of domestic flights that are described as
"social" flights. The actions taken by Lufthansa Consulting have allowed the company to remain in
business despite unfavorable international conditions. However, these actions need to be supplemented by
an assessment of conditions facing the company when the contract ends in 2004: will it be self-supporting
or will the State have to subsidize it in order to ensure its survival or with a view to its privatization?

9.- To conclude, the privatization process of public enterprises, particularly the biggest among them, is
proceeding in an uneven fashion. Each company has special features that make privatization easier or more
difficult. Finally, the experience acquired from the SOLIMA privatization process has had little influence
on the other two companies, contrary to the expectations of World Bank experts. Institutional changes and
a turnover in privatization officials are making the situation even more difficult. Lastly, at the moment the
development and poverty reduction program is placing less emphasis on privatization.                 The process
continues but the priorities are elsewhere.

Measures to support private sector development

10.- The adoption and application of the provisions of the new Mining Code was the first measure to
support development of the mining sector within the SAC II. The Code was adopted in March 2000 and a
Mining Registry was established. As a result of the implementation of the new system, the number of
pending applications for permits was reduced and the process for the granting of permits became more
transparent. In any case, this office reduced the chaos that prevailed in the sector, particularly with respect
to the extraction of deposits of certain precious stones (emeralds, sapphires, etc.). Because the new Mining
Code was prepared and implemented early enough, this measure was identified as a condition for the
release of the second credit tranche. Later on, the Code was supplemented by the law on major mining
investments (investment amounts over FMG one billion), which was intended to attract foreign investors.
Although the law was approved in 2001 by the National Assembly, the events of the first half of 2002
delayed its review by the Senate. This process did not take place until August 2002. However, at the
moment, this law has been applied only on a very limited basis. It should be noted that the latter is not
included in the measure related to the reform of the mining sector, but instead is part of a hodge-podge
measure that provides for strengthening the liberalization of the production sectors, which will not be
applied in the near future.

11.- The second measure pertained to land access. We note that since 1995, foreigners have been barred
from owing land. This provision was circumvented in the SAC I by means of the adoption of a long-term
lease (up to 99 years), which can be transferred and secured by mortgage. However, this law has been
applied on a very limited basis inasmuch as the registration amount was becoming too onerous (6 percent
of the lease over 100 years corresponds to the amount paid for a six-year lease, a figure that is generally
higher than the purchase price of the land).       The provision was relaxed in the SAC II by making the
registration fee payable in five-year installments. This has not, however, proven effective since, despite the
fact that the lease can be secured by a mortgage, banks are all foreign and thus unable to become owners of
land that is secured by mortgage in the event of default by their clients. Furthermore, the same situation
obtains with nationals, since, although that they are owners, their foreign creditors cannot institute
proceedings to acquire land that is secured by mortgage. In order to encourage private investors to invest
in Madagascar, an in-depth review of this provision will be necessary. However, taking into account the
fact that for the Malagasy people, land is sacred, this matter must be handled very carefully and it may
even be necessary to engage in a national dialogue on the subject.

12.- Also, in the case of the land-related measure, provisions were made to reserve ten zones, five for
purposes of tourism and five for industrial purposes. These zones were to be cleared in the land register


                                                      - 44 -

and made available to investors through international bidding. In the case of the industrial zones, the
potential targets were the promoters, while in the tourist zone, tourist operators were targeted. The five
tourist zones were identified and a call for bids was issued for the Isalo area. However, no qualified bids
were received. A challenge was filed by a number of prominent local persons with respect to Nossi-be, and
the matter has not yet been settled. In the case of the industrial zones, only two have been formally
identified and cleared, and no bids have been solicited. In any case, the remarks made in the preceding
paragraph are also valid in terms of achievement of this measure.

13.- The justice system and the business environment constitute the third measure to support private sector
development. This involves the preparation and application of an action plan to make the justice system less
cumbersome, to streamline procedures to enforce legal decisions, and to implement the recommendations of
the Foreign Investment Advisory Service regarding the creation of enterprises in Madagascar. Insofar as
the first point is concerned, an action plan was finally adopted after lengthy discussions with the World
Bank aimed at release of the second SAC II tranche. In terms of the justice system, steps have been taken
to streamline procedures, such as the elimination of the registration fee or meeting the costs of postal fees.
Moreover, a new arbitration law was passed and an Arbitration and Mediation Center of Madagascar
(CAMM) was created on the initiative of the private sector.

14.- The final measure involving the private sector pertains to the liberalization of a number of sectors: air
transport, telecommunications, mines. Apart from the law on major mining investments mentioned above,
the other measures, other than the concessioning of the Antalaha airport (to be verified), have not been
fully executed, given the fact that they are linked to the finalization of the privatization of Air Madagascar
and TELMA. As indicated, these measures are more long term in nature and the changes stemming from
the 2002 crisis could also prompt the new leaders to review the content of this measure: at the moment, is it
appropriate to talk about a second land line telephone company when the privatization of TELMA has not
even been finalized? What is the new policy of the Government with respect to the concessioning of
transportation infrastructure, particularly airport infrastructure?

Measures linked to the strengthening of public finance

15.- Tax revenue examination unit. The unit was established as part of the effort to improve the business
environment, as recommended in the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report. Its mission is to
increase tax revenue by establishing a single revenue office and extending the system to the entire island
and to all taxes collected at the central and municipal levels. This measure took effect with the creation of
an entity in March 2000 responsible for devising a strategy to increase tax revenue, with support from the
IDA's Institutional Development Fund (IDF). This entity does not appear in the new organizational chart
of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Budget, and the IDF grant, which was suspended during the
period of the crisis, has not been reinstated. In the interim, the strategy has led to the establishment of two
tax centers in Antananarivo: a tax center in Mandrosoa to collect the taxes of legal entities and another in
Faravohitra to collect the taxes of individuals. It is envisioned that 63 centers will be created throughout
the island, and the plan for their set up is being prepared. No particular problems have arisen with the
extension of the system to cover all taxes.

16.- Social sector expenditures. Monitoring budget execution of the ministries responsible for social
services (health, education) started in 1999 with the SAC II process. This process was aimed at producing
appropriate solutions to the problems that were thwarting the satisfactory execution of expenditures in
order to raise the level of commitments, excluding salaries, to at least 80 percent of the credit account
opened. Monitoring focused on a number of specific items, excluding salaries, (611 to 613 and 621) and
on investments, covering all sources of financing. The two categories of expenditure were broken down


                                                     - 45 -

into the central level and outlying levels. During the last three budget years, technical problems (disparities
in the figures submitted by the entities involved in the budget process, lack of familiarity with procedures
by a number of credit managers, shortage of equipment) were resolved as a result of the financial assistance
provided by the European Union Bank within the framework of the PAIGEP (Public Management
Institutional Support Project) and the PASA, as well as the training activities conducted by the budget
overview unit. The members of the unit come from the Treasury Office, the CDE [Contrôle des Dépenses
Engagées], the Budget Office, the Health Office, the Education Office, and the STA [Secrétariat technique
pour l'ajustement]. Other problems, such as delayed receipt of credits, delayed appointments and turnover
of managers, and difficulty in relaying information from the outlying to the central areas, have remained
virtually unchanged. With the exception of 2002, one of the positive effects of the establishment of the
system was the increase in the ratio of operating expense commitments, excluding salaries, to more than 90
percent of the credit account opened, at both the central and outlying levels. Commitment rates for
investments averaged 45 percent of the credit account opened over the past three years. In general, in the
case of investments managed at the central level, problems were encountered with insufficient counterpart
funds and cumbersome procurement procedures. The present Government is therefore focusing on the
reform of the oversight entities, including the drafting of new legal provisions to govern the Central
Procurement Commission and government procurement procedures.

17.- Furthermore, expenditure measures covered:
-        Credit delegations. This activity has taken place.
-        Increasing and monitoring operating expenses, excluding salaries (particularly the specific articles
mentioned), in conjunction with direct support for community-based schools in the area of education and
effective cost recovery in the area of health. Fifty percent of this measure has been executed, given the fact
that both an increase and monitoring have been achieved, without, however, there being any measures to
correct approaches. Also, although recovery costs have increased, community-based schools have not
received any assistance;
-        Bi-annual reviews to review expenses for the poor in each sector. Only one review has taken place
and it was financed by the EU and carried out by INSTAT.

18.- Fishing permits: Fees paid by shrimp trawlers have always been considered very low in relation to
catches (barely two percent of the value of catches compared to an average of ten percent for other
countries). In addition, the system for the granting of permits was not transparent. A study was therefore
conducted with a view to the introduction of a new system that was transparent, non-discretionary, and
competitive. The new system that resulted from the study was implemented in 2000. The system has been
so successful that not only have fees quadrupled; they are received in full before each season, thereby
eliminating the delays experienced earlier. A difference of opinion remains between the Government and
the Bank with respect to the granting of the latter two licenses: the Government considers them something
to which the operator is entitled, based on a court decision, while the Bank holds the view that they should
be granted on a discretionary basis.

19.- Financial sector reform: Auditing of insurance companies and funds. In general terms, the measures
associated with the SAC II come under the heading of State withdrawal from productive activities and
private sector development. Because of this, financial sector reform, which includes the auditing of
insurance companies (ARO, Ny HAVANA) and funds, was merely a reflection of this policy orientation.
The accounts of the two companies were audited as of December 31, 2000. The deadline established for
the two companies was considered sufficient, inasmuch as the work could be completed. Audit reports
were submitted to and approved by the Ministry of Finance, and contained, among other things,
substantiated opinions on the regularity and accuracy of the accounts, the financial status, and the balance
sheets of the two companies, as well as their organization and an assessment of their technical provisions.


                                                      - 46 -

The second phase of the reform, namely the process of divestiture of the State from the sector, was
suspended because of the events of 2002, although the KPMG CORPORATE FINANCE-PROGESTION
group, the auditor of Ny HAVANA, proposed a privatization scheme. However, the new Government plans
to forge ahead with this process. As far as the auditing of funds is concerned, the problems are largely
technical in nature. A wait-and-see attitude also exists, because of a lack of specific information on the
role and responsibilities of the entities involved with the audit preparation process. Although it was agreed
that the auditing of the CNAPS would be subject to prior approval of the auditing report on the Caisse de
Retraite Civile et Militaire (CRCM) [Civilian and Military Retirement Fund] and the Caisse de
Prévoyance de Retraite (CPR) [Retirement Provident Fund], the results of the audit of the CCM and CPR
have revealed that it is not possible to audit the accounts of these funds. They have no cash flow
statements and are still processing things manually, while it is recommended that IFAC standards be
followed when conducting the audit. New terms of reference have been established for conducting audits of
these two funds, and work in this area has not gotten beyond this point.

Supplemental credits

20.- Cyclone: It was agreed that US$20 million would be released in two tranche drawings of US$10
million each. The first would become available when the credit agreement was signed, and the second, after
inspection of the work conducted, which was supposed to amount to 50 percent of the assessed damages.
Two comments should be made: First, the supplemental credit was tied to the SAC II, since it was
expected that the credit would be used to support public finances, with rehabilitation work being financed
either through the budget or other sources and, since the SAC II was being implemented, it was therefore
quicker for the Bank to include the cyclone credit in the SAC II rather than to prepare a new credit
agreement. Second, the spirit of the credit was misunderstood by all the parties involved: some thought that
it was intended to finance the work, others did not understand why the permanent secretariat of the CNC
(National Coordination Committee for the rehabilitation work related to cyclone damage) had to supervise
and approve the work; furthermore, this entity wanted to establish a very cumbersome supervision
structure; the respective roles of the STA as the lead entity for the SAC II and the permanent secretariat of
the CNC were not well defined; there was uncertainty regarding whether work would be directly financed
by the State budget, etc. Furthermore, since work is progressing very slowly in the case of projects related
to this work, the objectives were not achieved and it was not possible for the second tranche drawing of
US$10 million to take place before the 2002 crisis. Following the crisis, because of the rehabilitation needs
of the country, the funds were released independently of the work done to repair the damage caused by the
cyclones. The weak performance was the result of the hasty linkage of two disparate objectives: the
structural reform objectives of the SAC II and the physical objectives of the supplemental credit which
made coordination of implementation and clarification of the roles of the parties involved difficult.

21.- Oil: Following the hike in oil prices on the international market in 2000, the Bank agreed to assist the
Government to meet the higher oil bill and cushion the impact of the impact of the increase from the
standpoint of the budget of consumers. A supplemental credit of US$30 million was approved for the
Government, and, as was the case with the cyclone credit, it was added as an amendment to the SAC II
credit agreement.    When the supplemental credit took effect in June 2001, international prices had
stabilized; however the credit served to cover the shortfall in taxes (TPP [tax on petroleum products] and
the TVAPP [value added tax on petroleum products]) that had not been collected when international prices
rose, in order to maintain the price level at the pump. Another unused portion was also earmarked for
repayment of Central Bank debt owed by SOLIMA to finance petroleum-related cargo.

New conditions




                                                     - 47 -

22.- In the wake of the 2002 crisis, conditions were relaxed in order to facilitate release of the third credit
tranche, given the great needs of the public treasury when the crisis ended. Although these measures were
relaxed, they form the basis of economic recovery and poverty reduction, the cornerstone of government
policy. Efforts are being made to combat corruption through the adoption of two decrees regarding the
Superior Council on Combating Corruption and the declaration of the property of magistrates and senior
government officials.    Resistance is coming from some quarters; however, the credibility of a number of
senior officials and the confidence of the people in their leaders make acceptance of this measure essential.

Conclusion

23.- In general terms, implementation of the measures recommended within the framework of the SAC II
has been satisfactory. This process has contributed greatly to the sound macroeconomic performance
recorded in 2000 and 2001. However, a number of problems, both internal and external, have been
encountered with implementation. From an internal standpoint, despite the satisfaction with the measures
implemented, their adoption was sometimes difficult. In the case of external partners, the difficulties stem
from a perception of the actual situation in Madagascar that is not shared by nationals, a situation that
sometimes makes dialogue difficult. Other difficulties encountered are linked to the disconnect between the
theory that formed the basis for the measure recommended and the reality. Because of this, it was
sometimes impossible to implement the measure (cf. long-term lease); another reason is excessive optimism
with respect to the time needed to achieve the measure (privatization of SOLIMA).

24.- Although there has been a shift in the approach to the structural adjustment program and the poverty
reduction program, a number of measures that have not been fully achieved within the framework of the
SAC II should be examined in greater depth in the context of future assistance by the World Bank (Poverty
Reduction Support Credit), and extensive discussions should be held on the subject of land access.
Furthermore, the international situation has changed greatly since the preparation of the SAC II and a
number of measures that were valid at that time no longer are.             Should we be talking about the
privatization of Air Madagascar after the withdrawal of Lufthansa Consulting or would it not be more
prudent to conduct a detailed assessment of expected changes in the international air transport market?

25.- The success of this operation can be attributed to the work of an entire team that felt fully involved in
and responsible for execution of the measures recommended in the credit agreement. This team includes
both officials of the different ministries and entities involved as well as their spokespersons at the World
Bank. Everyone was convinced that in this case, it was not a question of meeting the conditionalities
associated with a Bank credit, but rather executing measures that were intended to foster the development
of the country. However, there were also weaknesses, such as the problems mentioned earlier or those
related to the adoption of measures that were not widely embraced by Malagasy officials.




                                                     - 48 -

Additional Annex 17. SAC II Audit




                                     - 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

Additional Annex 18. Borrower comments




                                      - 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

