Report No. PID9214
Project Name                     Madagascar - Emergency Cyclone Support
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       MGPE70556
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             A
Date Prepared                    May 9, 2000
Projected Board Date             July 18, 2000
Background
1.      Many of the storms and cyclones that devastated Mozambique also struck
Madagascar in February and March 2000. In addition, Madagascar was also
struck in early April by a cyclone, Hudah, which reached gusts of wind of
over 300 km/hour. Hudah brought about significant additional destruction,
particularly in regions with key export crops. Although not as highly visible
in the international media as the situation in Mozambique and while the
widespread displacement of people that occurred in Mozambique did not take
place in Madagascar, it is now evident that the combined impact of winds and
rains has caused significant damage across sectors and is a serious blow to
the economy of Madagascar, with the poorest people bearing the largest brunt
of the devastation. More than 1 million inhabitants were affected, resulting
in over 200 people dead and almost 300,000 people in need of emergency aid
assistance. In response to the situation, the Government set up an emergency
relief program managed by the National Disaster Management Committee (CNS)
and supported by international aid agencies and NGOs.
2.      A Bank identification mission visited Madagascar in April to assess ways
in which the Bank might be most helpful in medium- to long-term response and
recovery efforts. The mission reported that the wake of the cyclones
effectively gave rise to severe direct damages in the following areas:
agriculture, education, health, transport and infrastructure. Physical and
social infrastructure in the affected areas was reported to be in disarray.
Roads and other infrastructure has also been affected and many areas remain
inaccessible by traditional means of transport. An appraisal mission,
scheduled for May 2000, aims at defining the modalities of Bank assistance.
Preliminary Damage Assessment
3.      The extent of the damage (and, in particular, lack of access to the
affected groups) has meant that relief operations have been extremely
difficult and costly in logistical terms. In addition, the Government has in
a preliminary fashion determined total direct and indirect costs at close to
US$75 million. The agricultural, transport and social sectors have been
struck the most.
4.      Agricultural Sector: Significant crop losses in the affected regions,
including staples (primarily rice), fruit, and export crops (cloves, coffee
and, most significantly, vanilla for which estimates indicate a 40 percent



loss of the country's total vanilla crop). This is compounded by the fact
that the areas most affected are those that produce a large proportion of the
country's export crops. In some instances the loss is seen as having multiple
year consequences, as many of the trees (cloves, coffee) have been badly
damaged or lost. In addition, agriculture-related infrastructure has been
affected, particularly irrigation and drainage systems, and feeder roads.
5.      Social Sectors: Significant damage has occurred to public structures,
ranging from nursery schools to high schools and technical colleges amongst
the education facilities, and clinics to regional hospitals amongst the
health facilities. Government estimates indicate that the education
facilities have experienced by far the greatest damage, and these have been
put by the government at over 60 percent of the total reconstruction costs
across all sectors. A majority of affected schools have been built with local
materials and did not follow standards of construction against cyclones. With
the devastation of many schools, thousands of school pupils are being
precluded from attending class. Although the population has responded by re-
opening classes using tents as temporary classrooms and providing many of the
needed teaching materials, these are temporary solutions that need to be
consolidated by timely reconstruction efforts.
6.      The health status of the most vulnerable groups (children, elderly,
pregnant women and displaced people) is particularly precarious due to a
shortage of medicine. Food shortages could have severe consequences for the
nutritional status of the population and, in particular, of the high-risk
categories (children under five, pregnant women and nursing mothers and
elderly people). Moreover, a combination of stagnant pools of water and
collapsed latrines has worsened a health situation which is already poor - a
cholera epidemic was already afflicting Madagascar and could easily spread in
these conditions. According to CNS survey results, diarrhoeal diseases and
acute respiratory infections began to be reported seven days after the last
cyclone.
7.      Transport Sector: Damage has mainly centered in provincial and secondary
roads and bridges, though there is serious damage in the national road
leading north out of Antahala, a region where many of the key export crops
are located. Both the northern and southern railway lines have been severely
hit, with reparation costs having been assessed by government at about US$
5.5 million. The ports of Manakara and Antahala also require rehabilitation.
8.      Other Damages: Housing has been hard hit, particularly amongst the
poorest households. Water and power sustained only some damage. There also
has been a fair amount of damage to public buildings, but many of these
buildings were already in poor condition given the lack of maintenance and
the fact that cyclone mitigation measures had not been implemented. Finally,
one of the consequences of the high winds was major loss of forestation,
including those in protected regional parks. It is also necessary to evaluate
the environmental impact of the cyclone through erosion and silting, mainly
resulting from damaged infrastructure.
Poverty Impact
9.      A key pressing need of the government and its partners in the short-run
is to mitigate the urgent need for help of the extremely poor. More than 80
percent of the poor in Madagascar live in rural areas and rely on subsistence
- 2 -



agriculture, activities which are now affected by flooding and crop
destruction. In some cases, these crops require several years to reach their
maturity, such as in the case of coffee and vanilla plants. This, together
with the destruction of rural infrastructure, implies that the means of
living of the most marginalized groups of the population have been destroyed.
To complicate matters, an already sparse distribution of education and health
centers is now further hampered by the destruction of the few existing
infrastructures. If government and donors do not respond swiftly and
effectively to this emergency, the poor of affected regions may continue to
be negatively affected long after the floods recede, in turn compromising the
accumulation of human capital required for Madagascar's sustained growth.
Economic Effects
10.     In the coming months, the main challenge for Madagascar is to respond
quickly and effectively to the economic devastation brought about by the
cyclones. This damage occurred at a time when the economy has been performing
well overall in recent years. Reform policies since 1997 have triggered
annual growth rates averaging slightly above 4 percent, consolidating three
years of growth in excess of population growth for the first time in a
decade. Nonetheless, higher economic growth is needed for Madagascar to
reduce poverty.
11.     Economic growth, which had been projected to reach 5.3 percent in 2000,
is now likely to be about 4.8 percent, mainly as a result of crop losses and
decreased production due to capital losses and damage to infrastructure.
Transport and other infrastructure bottlenecks combined with lower supply of
goods, which have already pushed up prices, could also lead to one-time
increases in inflation rates. Inflation is now expected to be about 10
percent compared to earlier forecasts of about 7.6 percent. Similarly, the
balance of payments is expected to worsen. Key export commodities, such as
vanilla, cloves, and coffee, are reported to be affected and import needs are
expected to be higher due to the impact of public and private reconstruction
efforts. Fiscal deficit is expected to be higher than previously anticipated,
5.5 percent of GDP compared to initial projections of 4.7 percent. In the
absence of external assistance, larger public deficits and a worsening
balance of payments would damage the achievements of the macroeconomic
stabilization efforts put forth by the government and the Malagasy population
in recent years.
Post-cyclone rehabilitation project
12.     A number of agencies and donors are currently assisting in rescue and
relief efforts and providing humanitarian aid. Many of the same donors have
signaled their willingness to provide support. With Bank assistance, the
Government is carrying out a damage assessment that would serve as a basis
for the various donor responses. Donors and international organizations
involved in the effort include the EU, AfDB, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, the Red
Cross, Doctors without Borders, FAO, Care International, WHO, the French
Development Agency, and the IMF.
Bank Response and Strategy
13.     Following the cyclones, the Bank received a request from the government
for emergency assistance. After an identification mission in early April, the
-3 -



Bank agreed to prepare for an appraisal and negotiation mission in May while
the Government, with donor support, would carry-out a more detailed damage
assessment. The Bank mission of May will: (i) review the damage assessment
being carried-out; and (ii) determine the modalities of Bank assistance best-
suited to help Madagascar recover from this natural disaster.
14.     At this stage, the Bank is considering a two-pronged approach to
concurrently deliver the assistance required by the reconstruction effort and
sustain the achievements in economic stabilization of recent years. This
approach envisions the provision of financial assistance through investment
projects, when possible through the restructuring of existing operations, and
the provision of balance of payments support aimed at maintaining
macroeconomic stability.
(a) Portfolio Restructuring
15.     In collaboration with Government counterparts, the Bank team intends to
restructure existing projects in its portfolio. Given the need for timely
financial support, the Bank team believes that restructuring of the existing
portfolio, as opposed to designing a new multi-sector cyclone relief
investment project, is the fastest and most flexible way to meet Madagascar's
immediate needs. Projects in the existing portfolio are likely to contribute
to the reconstruction effort in education and health and, with multi-sectoral
features, an existing social fund may be used to assist in the rebuilding
efforts of local communities, such as damages in the agricultural sector and
other minor infrastructure needs. When appropriate, amendments to the Credit
Agreements will be determined in order to provide high-priority, financial
assistance. When necessary, supplemental financing for these projects will be
considered, thus ensuring the concurrent timely access to financing and the
achievement of original project objectives.
16.     The Government and IDA are also modifying, as necessary, projects and
non-lending services currently scheduled or under preparation to ensure that
future IDA support addresses the Government's development agenda while
reflecting the new priorities resulting from the cyclone damage - such as the
proposed Community Development Fund and Transport projects. For example,
under the APL-1 of the proposed Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation
Project, to be presented to the Board on June 1, 2000, an additional amount
of US$2.5 million was allocated for the purchase by the Ministry of Public
Works of emergency metallic structures (e.g., portable bridges). In addition,
the terms of reference for the development of a strategy for the prevention
and the mitigation of effects of natural catastrophes, including cyclones,
was agreed with Ministry of Transport and the strategy will be financed under
the APL-1.
(b) Balance of Payments Support
17.     The economic team of the appraisal mission will assess the consequences
of the cyclones on the macro framework, the microeconomic aspects of the
cyclone and reconstruction effort in key sectors, and the need for balance of
payments support to cover import requirements from reconstruction (private
and public) and the downturn of export proceeds generated by this emergency.
Two options will be considered to provide this assistance; supplemental
financing under an on-going adjustment credit (SAC-2) or the preparation of a
new emergency credit.
-4-



18.     The use of the supplemental financing option could enable the Bank to
deliver balance of payments support in a timely manner. Supplemental
financing through SAC-2 would be considered if, at the time of completion of
appraisal, the timing and readiness of our support closely matches the
effectiveness timetable of this operation which is now scheduled for mid-
2000, thus providing a quick and easy vehicle for balance of payments
support. The alternative to supplemental financing is the processing and
negotiation of a stand alone quick-disbursing balance of payments emergency
credit, such as has been done in Mozambique and Nicaragua. This instrument
could be used to finance the purchase of equipment and commodities on a
positive list of imports needed for the rehabilitation effort. The list of
eligible imports could be determined in consultation with the Government, the
private sector, and other donors. Both the composition of the positive list
and the procurement rules to be applied would need to use maximum flexibility
to accelerate disbursements and minimize distortions in the foreign exchange
market. These options will be discussed and decided upon in consultation with
Government during the mission.
Benefits and Risks
19.     Timely balance of payments support, whether by supplemental financing or
through a new emergency credit, is crucial to the Government if additional
import demands generated by the effects of the cyclone cannot be covered by
on-going project funding. This urgency is further exacerbated by an expected
marked decrease in exports. Thus, it is critical to maintain macroeconomic
stability while rehabilitating and restoring Madagascar's productive capacity
through ensuring procurement and delivery of adequate supplies of essential
equipment, materials, and commodities for the transport, social, and
agricultural sectors. Balance of payments support is an important source of
foreign exchange and provides the Government with non-inflationary finance at
a time when there will be need for additional government expenditures and
unknown net impact on government revenues. It will thus complement the
support for short- and medium-term rehabilitation that will be provided
through the restructuring and reprogramming of ongoing operations in the
portfolio, and assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
20.     There are, however, several risks involved with the type of assistance
being considered by the Bank based on experience from other countries and
from the Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP) in Madagascar (Credit
2625-MAG) approved in June 1994.
a) Capacity and Implementation Risks: The government's administrative
capacity in emergency or large-scale reconstruction situations is typically
weak. The restructuring of on-going operations as a key modality of
assistance will tie much of the implementation issues to existing project
implementation units and could thus minimize this risk while strengthening
consistency with existing sectoral strategies. Government commitment is also
a necessary pre-requisite to ensure good and effective coordination of the
project implementation units.
b) Timeliness of Bank's Balance of Payments Support: Successful
implementation of a free-standing balance of payments operation will depend
on the existence of a strong coordination unit as well as rapid procurement
arrangements. In contrast, supplemental financing under SAC-2 could
- 5 -



facilitate disbursement against a negative list of imports, ensuring a more
timely provision of support.
c) Sustainability: In the absence of adequate arrangements to ensure
sustainability and damage prevention, reconstruction and rehabilitation
projects in a country subject to frequent cyclone damage may not be cost-
effective. Thus, as a key aspect of the project, it is necessary to identify
mechanisms to reduce and/or transfer the risks of cyclone losses to avoid
losing these new investments to another cyclone.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Bienvenu Rajaonson
WB Country Office
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 6 -



