Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3218-1-MAG (Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3218-1-MAG (Amendment) 
AGREEMENT 
AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) Credit Number 3218-MAG, dated 
June 10, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support 
during the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in the support of the Program due to the damage caused by cyclones which 
struck the Borrower’s territory between February and April 2000, by increasing the 
amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,200,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such supplemental assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
the following new paragraphs are added reading as follows:
“(w) ‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, 
dated June 10, 1999; and
(x) ‘Effectiveness Tranche’ means the tranche referred to in Category 4 
in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to be 
released by the 
Association on or after the Effective Date of the Amending 
Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty eight million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR88,700,000) the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy 
three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 73,500,000); (b) a 
supplemental amount in various various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,200,000) (the 
Supplemental Financing).”
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following  proviso 
reading:
“provided however, that any commitment charge on the Supplemental 
Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement.” 
Section 1.04. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as in the Annex to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.05. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development  Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding the following paragraph:
“(c)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in respect of 
the 
Supplemental Credit allocated to Category 4 in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, unless the Association shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying 
out of the Program; and 
(ii) that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.” 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Page  3
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo-Razafy 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
Annex
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Percent of
(Expressed in
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche 
   18,375,000
100% 
(2)
Second Tranche
   22,050,000
100% 
(3)
Third Tranche
   32,204,000
100% 
(4)
Effectiveness Tranche   15,200,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of the  
      871,000
Project Preparation 
Advance
TOTAL
   88,700,000
