Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2134 
Operation Name 
FINANCE AND GROWTH DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Capital markets (30%);Housing finance and real estate markets 
(20%);Banking (20%);Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and 
contractual savings (20%);Micro- and SME finance (10%) 
Project ID 
P097159 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
Implementing Agency 
SECRETARIAT OF TREASURY AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
(SHCP) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 31, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 17, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
March 2, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Government of Mexico (GoM) has taken great strides in consolidating the stability of the financial 
sector.  In the banking system, legal and regulatory reforms have fostered a more solidly capitalized 
sector operating under a prudential framework consistent with best international practices.  Important 
reforms to the public banking sector have narrowed its focus thus limiting the potential for economic 
distortions as well as the creation of contingent liabilities for the GoM from its lending activities.  
Mexico has been a regional leader in the promotion of non-bank financial institutions, while avoiding 
their use for regulatory arbitrage purposes.  In particular, their role has been essential in reinvigorating 
the housing finance sector, an area where Mexico is developing an increasingly sophisticated financing 
system.  Enhanced corporate governance framework, supervision and institutional arrangements have 
also fostered the development of the capital markets.  The most recent reforms have focused on the 
development of the equity markets, which have been lagging behind fixed income markets, a pervasive 
issue among emerging economies.  Similarly, Mexico is addressing some of the most serious limitations 
being faced by countries that have reformed their pension plans towards privately-managed accounts.  
These limitations include limited competition among private pension administrators and the 
misalignment betw
een workers’ and administrators’ incentives. 
 
An ongoing program of reforms seeks to foster sustainable growth of the financial sector.  The GoM has 
more recently embarked on a series of policy and institutional reforms which not only seek to continue 
strengthening financial sector stability, but also seek to promote the growth of a more diversified 
financial sector, offering a broader range of competitive financing and savings mechanisms to contribute 
more directly to the country’s overall economic growth.  The Bank’s support for the GoM’s program of 
reform would consist of a two-phased programmatic development policy lending (DPL) operation.  The 
entire program would be carried out over a period of 18 months and would be complemented by 
analytical work done at the request of the GoM on specific policy areas covered by the program.  The 
first operation loan would support these aims through reforms in three policy areas: (i) strengthening 
market integrity and prudential regulation to set the foundation for continued sustainable growth of the 
financial sector; (ii) increasing the depth, access and diversification of financing to foster a more 
effective role of the financial sector in the development of the economy; and (iii) promoting diversified 
investment instruments to complement the aim of increased financial access through enhanced national 
savings levels and investment vehicles.  Key triggers for the preparation of the second operation reflect 
Page  2
continued reforms in these areas, including (i) the creation of a transparent banking resolution 
mechanism; (ii) strengthening the infrastructure for housing finance; and (iii) enhancing investment 
strategies and competition in the pensions industry.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed loan would support sustainable growth and poverty alleviation by: (i) contributing to 
reduce the probability of a systemic financial crisis; (ii) fostering the sustainable growth of a financial 
system and capital markets that address the needs of the productive sector and increase the overall 
competitiveness of the economy; and (iii) increasing the diversification of savings and investment 
instruments available to households and institutional investors. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
In fortifying and diversifying the financial sector and capital markets, and easing the flow of financing 
to businesses, the proposed loan aims at increasing competitiveness, the pursuit of which is the first 
thematic pillar of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico, which covers the period 
FY05 to FY08. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
501.26 
 Total 
501.26 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The SHCP will be the representative of the United Mexican States (the Borrower) and will be responsible for the 
overall implementation of this program in coordination primarily with the Banco de Mexico, Comision Nacional 
Bancaria y de Valores, and Comision Nacional de Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro.
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The main risks faced by the proposed operation are associated with the political transition that will take 
place as result of the presidential elections scheduled for July 2006 and the potential for macro-
economic instability during the electoral period.  The reforms that would be supported by the two 
operations of this program are, however, related to aspects of the financial sector agenda, on which there 
is broad consensus among key political actors and which the Government is already actively 
implementing.  Therefore, this limits the risk that the actions already taken could be reversed and that 
the indicative triggers of the next operation may not be reached within the 18 months following the 
effectiveness of this first loan.  Additionally, an important part of the reforms supported by this loan are 
targeted at reducing the impact on the financial system of any potential macro-economic instability that 
could be generated by political volatility. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Prevention of financial crises is essential to poverty alleviation.  In strengthening the financial system 
through greater market integrity and enhanced prudential regulation, the proposed program aims to 
Page  3
reduce the risk of future financial crises, which can have a devastating impact on employment levels and 
poverty incidence.  The 1994-1995 crisis caused a surge in poverty levels which took a decade to 
reverse.  The proposed operation does not support policies that combat poverty directly, but instead 
seeks to reduce it primarily through fostering faster and more sustainable economic growth.  A strong, 
efficient and more diversified financial system and capital markets can provide private enterprises 
–
the 
engine of economic expansion - with more resources, to invest and expand.  Growth has historically 
been a powerful force for poverty reduction in Mexico and worldwide, by raising living standards, 
creating jobs and increasing the public resources available for social spending.   
The program also includes measures that would promote more equitable growth, which has a greater 
poverty impact.  Strengthening corporate governance and the rights of minority shareholders, and 
generally fostering greater and broader participation in the equity market should lead to a more equal 
sharing of the fruits of economic expansion.   
Measures to fortify the system for housing finance, particularly at the lower-income end of the market, 
should help make home loans more readily available.  Broadening access to mortgages enables more 
people to acquire their own homes, which provides them – in addition to the housing itself – with a 
means of accumulating wealth.  In particular, the development of MI that this DPL series would support 
is essential to allow the offering of higher loan-to-value mortgages, a mechanism that international 
experience has shown to be the best market-based instrument to provide home ownership to lower 
income households. 
In promoting more transparent, efficient and competitive administration of pension funds, with access to 
a
broader range of investments with potentially higher returns, the proposed program should strengthen 
these and make them more attractive as investments. This would contribute to providing more Mexicans 
with greater financial security in old age.  
8. Contact point 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD)  
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
