Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.AB1769 
Operation Name 
First Finance and Growth DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Capital Markets (30%), Housing Finance (20%), Banking (20%), 
Pensions (20%), Micro and SME Support (10%) 
Project ID 
P097159 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Date PID Prepared 
July 20, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 3, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 18, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The prudent fiscal policies and sound financial sector regulation and supervision carried out by 
the Government of Mexico (GoM) over the last ten years have allowed the development of a 
solid financial sector with well managed and capitalized banking institutions and growing non-
bank financial entities.  The public debt management strategy has allowed extension of tenors of 
Government debt and the definition of a yield curve that, along with an improved capital markets 
legal and regulatory framework and growing assets under management by private pension 
managers, has set the foundation for growth of private sector financing opportunities in the 
capital market. 
 
This stability is being followed currently by new growth in the level of financial sector 
penetration and the GoM has requested World Bank support in strengthening the legal and 
regulatory framework to consolidate these developments. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The projects seeks to promote the growth of a more diversified financial sector offering a 
broader range of competitive savings and financing mechanisms while ensuring prudent 
behavior, markets integrity and the allocation of risks to those that can better manage them.  In 
order to add
ress this challenge the Government’s objectives in the financial sector can be 
conceptualized as having four different axes: 
 
(a) Minimize the probability of future financial crises, reduce moral hazard in the system 
and promote better prudential practices by market participants; 
 
(b) Strengthen market integrity through increased transparency and fair and clear rules 
that establish a level field for all participants; 
 
(c) Enable the environment to promote the offering of diversified savings instruments to 
provide households and investors with options aligned with their risk appetite and life 
cycle needs; and 
 
Page  2
(d) Deepen the role of the financial sector in the fulfillment of financing needs of 
households and firms to improve the efficiency of allocation of resources towards 
activities with higher social returns. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed loan would be the first stage of a two-phased programmatic development policy 
operation (DPL) to be carried out over the next 12 to 18 months.  The loan will support legal and 
regulatory reforms led by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP, Secretaria de 
Hacienda y Credito Publico), the Central Bank (Banxico, Banco de Mexico), the Banking and 
Securities Commission (CNBV, Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), and the Pensions 
Fund Commission (CONSAR, Comision Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro) to 
address each one of the objectives mentioned above. 
4. Environmental Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are not expected to have any significant effect on 
the environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
6. Contact point: 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD) 
 
