Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. /S2-3- ea
Rept No. P-4007-BU
REPORT AND RECoMmENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 18.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
.
April 1, 1985
Thb documet has a restricted distrihutm and ,y be use by recipiemts only in the peWornce of
their officia duties. its contets. may noet terwise he disclsed without World Dank auihorintlo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                .         Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$0.0085                    -         PBU 1
US$1.00                      -         FBu 117
US$1.00                      -         1.042 SDR
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          -          3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     -         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)             -         0.386 square miles (mi2)
1 ton (t)                            .         2,204 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AB      -     Air Burundi
ADB     -     African Development Bank
BTA     -     Buru2dl Transport Association (STB)
CBAT    -     Center for Basic and Advanced Tr-'-ning
DAF     -     Department of Administration and Finance
DDC     -     Department of Design and Control
DW      -     Department of Works
EDF     -     European Development Fund
ERR     -     Economic Rate of Return
FAC     -     French Bilateral Aid
FRG     -     Federal Republic of Germany
GDR     -     General Directorate of Roads
CDT     -     General Directorate of Transport
INTRACO -     International Transport Company
KfW     -     Bilateral Aid of the FRG
MP      -     Ministry of Planning
MPW     -     Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines
MTT     -     Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
NLPW    -     National Laboratory of Public Works
NR      _     National Road (Primary Road)
OPEC          Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
POB     -     Port of Bujumbura
PPF     -     Project Preparation Facility
PWS     -     Public Works School
RGI     -     Road of General Interest (Secondary Road)
TOB     -     Transport Office of Burundi (OTRABU)
UNDP    -     United Nations Development Program
USAID   -     United States Agency for International Development
VOC     -     vehicle operating costs
VPD     -     vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ci)
BURUNDI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:     Republic of Burundi
Amount:       SDR 18.9 million (US$18.1 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project
Description:  Objectives: The project is designed to (a) improve the
anteuance of the road network; (b) increase the capacity of
the Ministry of Public Works to continue such maintenance;
(c) train local personnel; and (d) improve the country's
transport planning and management.
Components: The project would support the road maintenance
program to be implemented over a three-year period. The
project would include strengthening/resurfacing of 11 km of
paved roads; improvement/regravelling of 81 km of country
roads; routine maintenance of the entire paved road network
(744 km); maintenance of selected earth roads (about 1,100
kmn); improvement/maintenance of bridges; labor-intensive
maintenance of the entire classified road network (about
2,900 km); training and technical assistance; and consultant
services.
Benefits:     Reduction of road transport costs due to reduced vehicle
*                        operating costs, deferred costly road construction and
improved road safety.
Risks:        There are no major risks associated with the project.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreig    Total
US$ million equivaTent
I.   StreMghtening/Resurfacing
of Paved Roads (llkm)               0.3        1.4      1.7
II. Improvement/Regravelling of
Earth Roads (81 km)                 0.8        1.7      2.5
III. Maintenance of Paved Roads
(744 km)                            0.z        1.0      1.2
IV. Maintenance of Earth Roads
TL, MU  IM)                         0.6       5.0       5.6
V.   Maintenance of Bridges               0.3       1.4       1.7
VI. Labor-Intensive Maintenance
(2,900 km5)                         1.8       0.1       1.9
VII. Training (technical assistance
and fellowships)                    0.1        0.8      0.9
VIII.Consultant Services                  0.3       2.4       2.7
IX.  Project Preparation                    0       0.9      0-9
Total Base Cost                     4.4       14.7     19.1
Contin!gencies
rnysiLca.l                          0.2         1.4     1.6
Price                               0.5         2.7     3.2
Sub-total                      0.7        4.1      4.8
GRAND TOTAL                    5.1       18.8    23.9
Total Project Cost Excluding Taxes       4.1        18.8    22.9



(iii)
Financing Plan:                             Local      Foreign      Total
--  t(US- million)       -
Proposed IDA Credit                                      18.1         18.1
D          Belgium                                       -           0.7          0.7
Goverment                                     4.1         -            4.1
Total Financing                     4.1        18.8         22.9
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
---(US$ million)--
IDA Fir,.zal Year                  1986    1987      1988    1989
Annual                              3.3      6.2      7.1      1.5
Cumulative                          3.3     9.5      16.6    18.1
Economic Rate of Return: 51 percent
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 5335-BU, dated April 2, 1985
Maps:                       IBRD 15268R1
IBRD 18509R
e



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation un a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
18.9 million (US$18.1 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Fourth Highway Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The last Country Economic Memorandum on Burundi (Report 4784BU)
is dated December  26,  1984.    The  following  section  incorporates  its
findings and conclusions. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Burundi is a small, land-locked country in East-Central Africa.
It covers a territory of 27,835 square kilometers (including its share in
Lake Tanganyika), and has a population of 4.4 million inhabitants. With an
estimated Gross National Product of IUS$240 per capita in 1983 it is one of
the world's least developed countries. The overall literacy rate was about
25% in 1982, morbidity is high, and basic social infrastructures are still
lacking.   Limited natural resources,  population pressure,  scarcity  of
qualified and experienced manpower, and isolation from main trade routes,
characterize this extremely poor country.
4.        Nearly 95% of Burundi's population is rural, living on scattered
homesteads. Bujumbura, the capital city, hcd about 165,000 inhabitants in
1982.   Agriculture, mostly smallholders who grow subsistence crops and
coffee, contributes about 60% of GDP at factor cost and 90% of merchandise
exports.   A few large farms grow sugarcane,  tea and quinine.   Other
natural  resources  are  scarce.    Identified  minerals  include  nickel,
phosphate, petroleum, vanadium, some fluvial gold and calcium, but the
economic  justification  for  their  exploitation  is  still  uncertain.
*         Burundi's manufacturing sector is small, its growth being limited by the
small size of the domestic market, the country's isolation from trade
routes, vulnerability to disruptions in the external transport corridors,
'high transport costs, and the lack of skilled manpower.
5.           The country is the second most densely populated country in
Africa, with a density of 154 per km2.   Population pressure has led to
declining  soil  fertility,  soil  erosion  and  deforestation.    Although



- 2 -
agricultural statistLes are poor, there are indications that, in recent
years, foodcrop production may have decliand ln per capita terms.   Net
population growth is projected at 2.7% p.a. during the current decade (in
absence of migration, however, this growth would be higher; population
could triple in thirty years). The implicatlons of thls rapid growth for
health  facilities,   schools,   employment  and  land  availability  are
worrisome. IDA has emphasized the urgent need to initiate family planning
programs.   Although progress has been slow, the Government has recently
acknowledged the problem, and a first family health project is being
considered (para. 17).
6.           The country has an extensive road network.  Main roads are
passable  all year.   There  is  an  international airport at Bujumbura.
Burundi, however, remains dependent for most of its imports and exports
upon two transport routes to the Indian Ocean through neighboring
countries.   The Northern Route, by highway from Bujumbura to Mombasa,
Kenya, via Rwanda and Uganda is 2,020 km. in length. This route suffers
from   poor   road   conditions,   and   cumbersome   administrative   border
procedures.   The Southern Route, by barge down Lake Tanganyika, then by
railway to Dar-es-Salaam, is 1,425 km.  It tends to be inefficient because
of long delays in transhipment, and disruptions on the Tanzanian railway.
7.        Transport charges on these routes add significantly to the landed
cost of imports.   The passage of goods through neighborlng countries is
hindered by factors which are out of Burundi's control.  Interruption of
crucial supplies hinders project implementation and forces firms to hold
large stocks of inputs and spare parts. In 1980, the Bank prepared a study
of the external  transport connections  of Burundi and Rwanda.    A more
extensive study covering Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Eastern Zaire was
carried out by UNCT-W.  The fiadings and recommendations of these studies
have assisted the countries and donor agencies to agree on action and
priority investments.   Several bilateral and multilateral meetings led,
inter alia, to the Northern Corridor Transit Agreement which was concluded
in  Kampala in September 1984.  The agreement will result in significant
simplification of customs procedures at border crossings.  On the Southern
Route, a number of external donors have been financing improvements in
physical facilities at the ports of Kigoma and Dar-es-Salaam.  IDA is now
preparing a report which will update and review the actions taken so far
and will help to define priority policies and investments in regard to the
international transport.
Economic Developments: Goals and-Performance
8.          In the mid-1970s, Burundi's economic situation benefitted from
several favorable factors: (i) a new Government, headed by President
Bagaza, took power in 1976, ending a period of political instability; (ii)
the price of coffee in the international market tripled, resulting in
substantial windfalU profits and accumulation of public savings; and (iii)
the level of foreign aid to Burundi increased considerably, in support of
the  new  regime's  stated  commitment  to  economic  development.    These



circumstances were considered a good omen for the Third Development Plan
(1978-82), and expectations for an improvement in living conditions were
therefore high.
9.          The Third Development Plan (1978-82) included broad objectives
such  as  the  transformation  of  the  economic  structure;   increased
mobilization of resources for production; the reduction of poverty,
together with improved income distribution; and increased access to
education and health services.   Performance during the Plan period was
relatively good especially in comparison with most of the Sub-Saharan
countries.   On the average, real GDP at market prices rose by 3.1% per
year, with  gross domestic investment averaging about 13.5% of GDP, far
above the 8.0% share of the previous five years. The public sector took
the lead in the investment effort, accounting for 90% of the total. Foreign
donors financed about 60% of investment expenditures.   The growth in total
value added was mainly due to the growth in the modern sector stimulated by
public investment spending.    The output of the subsistence sector which
accounts for 85% of the population, grew more slowly than the population,
widening the income gap between rural and urban dwellers.   The investment
program favored mostly the modern sector, and its effects on income and
foreign exchange earnings were limited.   Most of the projects were capital
intensive and created few jobs; moreover, the  protection extended to the
new ventures made them inefficient and heavily dependent on imported
materials, adding little to the country's foreign exchange earning
capacity.
10.       The financial situation, which had been kept under control during
most of the 1970's, deteriorated rapidly at the turn of the decade.  This
was due to two main factors: (i) deterioration in the terms of trade -   by
75% between 1977 and 1982 -- reflecting a decline in coffee prices and a
doubling in import prices, which pushed the current account deficit to
about 12Z of GDP; and (ii) insufficient and delayed response of the
Government to the changing economic environment. To support the balance of
payments, the Government relied mostly on a run-down of its reserves; it
also increased restrictions on imports and on remittances of foreign
exchange abroad. The Burundi Franc appreciated significantly with respect
to the currencies of the major trade partners, reflecting the appreciation
of the US dollar to which it was pegged.
11.      These unfavorable developments had serious consequences for the
budget.   The terms-of-trade deterioration reduced import capacity and led
to budgetary problems, as the Government's receipts from coffee exports
fell dramatically, necessitating cutbacks in imports and public spending.
These factors as well as the poor agricultural crops of 1982 led to a
decline in income, which spread into 1983 and resulted in a significant
slow down of economic activity. The consequence was a widening of the
resource gap, depletion of reserves, and an accumulation of payment arrears
in the Government accounts.
12.       During the 1978-82 period, Burundi was able to receive external
financing on very soft terms.   Grant assistance was substantial.            In
addition, external public borrowing during the period carried an average
interest rate of only 2.4% and an average maturity of 31 years including



- 4 -
eight years  of grace, implying  a grant element of about 60%.   Debt
service remained, therefore, low -- at about 5Z of exports of goods and
nonfactor services during 1978-82.  Bank projections Ludicate, however, a
rapid increase to about 20-25Z in 1985-8b due to the "bunching" of debt
maturities.
13.           The lesson of the Third Plan period is that Burundi must
establish development priorities and select investment projects with great
care.   The linkage between macroeconomic planning and the selection of
programs  and  projects  needs  to  be  iitproved.    The  private  sector,
nongovernmental organizations, and cooperatives must be enlisted to the
maximum extent feasible to participate in the development effort.
Sustained technical assistance will be needed for several years in order to
strengthen the country's ability to identify, prepare, and carry out
well-conceived plans and projects.
14.        The year 1983 was the first year of the Fourth Development Plan
(1983-87), which , as explained further below, incorporates an ambitious
investment program of US$230 million per year (US$100 million more than
what was achieved in the Third Plan Period).  The Government tried to raise
its revenues in order to be able to carry out this ambitious program. New
tax measures were introduced, notably increases of 50 to 100% in the rates
of the most important taxes - transaction tax, income tax and tax on beer
consumption, which in the last years replaced coffee as the single most
important source of government fiscal revenue. By mid-1983, however, there
were signs of increasing financial stress.  The Government tried to cope
with the situation by attempting to reduce the investment budget by 45Z,
but this proved difficult. While 80% of the investment planned for 1983
was actually implemented, this was obtained at a great cost: the public
domestic debt increased substantially; unpaid obligations accumulated,
representing (at end-1983) 30% of Government spending; and the overall
budget deficit reached  5%  of GDP.   Economic growth, which  had  been
negligible in 1982, remained marginal in 1983, with non-agricultural
sectors registering an absolute decline.
15.        In response to this difficult situation, the Government took a
number of important actions. First, in November 1983, the FBu was delinked
from the US dollar (to which itEhad been linked since 1976) and pegged to
the SDR, with an implicit devaluation of about 30%. Second, in early 1984,
the producer prices of the main export crops were raised to provide
stronger incentives to producers.  The coffee price was increased by 6%,
the tea price by 36%, and the cotton price by 17Z. Third, in an attempt to
balance the current budget, the Government increased the rates of the most
important taxes (para. 13), froze public wages and salaries, improved the
system of tax collection, and cut the recurrent subsidies to the para-
statals.
16.       According to preliminary and partial information, the year 1984
was another difficult year.   Agriculture was adversely affected by the
drought and foodcrop production may have fallen by as much as 5-6%. Cash
crop production did not fare better: coffee production fell from a high of
36,000 tons in 1983 to 27,000 tons, offsetting the increase in the output
of other cash crops, notably tea.  The modern sector registered some real
growth (owing to the partial liquidation of government arrears), but the



- 5 -
poor performance of the primary sector caused total GDP to stagnate.  On
the financial side, both external and internal Imbalances were reduced
somewhat.   As a result of the 1983 devaluation, Burundi's trade balance
improved. However, because of increased factor services payments and debt
servicing charges, the total current account balance remained above 12X of
GD". The public finance situation also improved. Revenues were about 20%
higher than in 1983, reflecting (a) the impact of the devaluation on
revenues from taxes on international trade; (b) reinforcement of tax
*          collection procedures; and (c) improvement in the economic activlty of the
modern sector.   Current expendltures were maintained at about the same
level, in nominal terms, and capital outlays were reduced to their lowest
level since 1979.   As a result, the budgetary deficit was reduced from
FBu6.5 billion to FBu3.4 billion (or from 5Z of GDP to 3%).
Sectoral Developments and Issues
17.         The very rapid population growth in a country which is already
overpopulated represents the most threatening constraint on economic
development which Burundi has to face (para. 5). The Government of Burundi
recently announced its intention to adopt a program to reduce population
growth and to establish, as a first step, an Interministerial Family
Planning Committee. One of the first tasks of this Commission will be to
plan and develop a population program.   Fertility reduction will require
a strengthening in the management and planning capacity of the Ministry of
Health, an improvement in the delivery of basic health services, as well as
an increase in public spending on health, which declined in real terms in
the last five years.
18.        In agriculture, the most important issues for future development
relate to productivity increases (of foodcrops as well as export crops),
soil protection, and erosion control. Food crop promotion is essential in
order to feed the fast growing population.   Better utilization of the
country's traditional export crop potential and diversification into new
export crops appears crucial because of limited possibilities for new
export  revenue  earning  activities.   Priority areas in agriculture are
therefore: promotion of applied research, in particular on food crops;
strengthening and improvement of extension services; adequate and regular
provision of inputs; initiation of immediate aud longer-term measures to
protect  the  country's  agricultural  potential;  and  amelioration  of
organization and operations of the three main export crop subsectors
(coffee, tea, and cotton), principally through improvement in the
management of agricultural public enterprises and through adequate pricing
policies. On the institutional side, further strengthening of agricultural
planning, and of project preparation and monitoring capacity appears
crucial in order to assure effective design and implementation of
projects.    The  concept  of  Regional  Development  Companies,  which  the
GovernmenL established to promote integrated rural development, weeds to be
carefully reviewed in order to focus their activities on production and
adapt their design to the country's needs and possibilities, in particular
in terms of finances and human resources.



- 6 -
19.        Manufacturing Industry.  Industrialization is constrained by the
limited natural resources, low productivity of the industrial labor force
and the acute shortage of managers, as well as by the country's small
market, the low purchasing power of its population, the country's
land-locked  position, and difficult transport conditions which increase                    t
costs.   Burundi does offer, however,  certain advantages for industrial
development: basic infrastructure is available in the major urban center at
reasonable costs; the country's land-locked situation constitutes a natural
protection  for  import  substitution  projects;  and  domestic  finance  is
readily  available  to  manufacturers.         During  the  1978-82  period,
protectionist measures created a favorable climate for manufacturing
expansion. Modern manufacturing value added grew at an average annual rate
of nearly 10% in real terms, reaching about 5% of GDP in 1982.  Most of
this expansion  has been oriented  to the domestic market.    Production
remains typical of the first generation of import substitution, based on
imported raw materials with exports limited to processed coffee, tea,
cotton and a few other items.  Capacity utilization is low because of the
small size of the domestic market, high tariffs in neighboring countries,
and high production costs.   However, due to the monopolistic situation
enjoyed by most firms and the "cost-plus" system of price control, the
sector is profitable despite its inefficiencies. Since the mid-1970s, the
Government has participated in a number of joint ventures with foreigr
interests and established public enterprises to manage large industrial
operations that the private sector had avoided because of their couplex
management  and  large  financial  requirements.    Host  of  these  public
enterprises have been created without an adequate financial structure
and/or sufficient qualified personnel and are now a drain on the budget.
The Government has recognized these problems and has taken some measures to
deal with them.  On the one hand, it has virtually eliminated recurrent
subsidies to public enterprises.  On the other, it has created a Public
Enterprises Commission (CGEP) to design restructuring programs for public
enterprises, sell off enterprises to private investors when possible, and
phase out those unlikely to become viable.
20.         Burundi faces a range of problems in the energy sector.  The
first and most important is the increasing scarcity of fuelvood and other
traditional fuels on which almost all of Burundi's population depends for
cooking and heating. AMother is the high cost of oil imports whose value
rose by 450% between 1977 and 1982.  Finally, only 2% of the population has
access to electricity. The Government, with assistance from the UNDP/Bank
energy management program and other donors has started to implement a
program (i) to improve forestry sector management  and policy;  (ii) to
reduce woodfuel demand by introducing more efficient firewood and charcoal
cookstoves and kilns; (iii) to develop the use of peat as a substitute for
wood, charcoal and petroleum products; (iv) to investigate alternative and
contingency supply arrangements for oil-imports; and (v) to participate in
the Ruzizi hydro-electric regional project, improve the transmission
network and establish a strong unit for power planning.   Exploratioa is
also underway to assess the hydrocarboa potential of Burundi.



- 7 -
21.         The Government has made a considerable effort to develop basic
education and increase pzimary enrollments. Average percentages of capital
and recurrent budgetary expenditures allocated to education are comparable
to those of other African countries. However, the primary enrollment rate
in public schools is only about 30X. Measures are therefore being taken to
increase the share of resources which are devoted   to basic education,
through the adoption of cost saving measures at the secondary and
university level, and to use these resources more effectively, in
particular through the Introduction of double shifting, and upgrading of
teacher training.   The Ministry of Education is also providing assistance
to improve the quality and scope of education given in private schools and
adult social centers.
The 1983-87 Fourth Plan
22.        The Fourth Plan was presented at a Round Table meeting organized
by the UN in February 1984.   The Plan envisages real GDP (factor cost)
growth of 3.7% per year between 1982 and 1987 and total investment of
FBu107.2 billion (in constant 1981 prices), equivalent to about US$1,200
million.     Barring an unforeseen and substantial improvement in coffee
prices and a major inflow of fresh financial aid, achievement of the Fourth
Plan objectives  does not seem likely.   Given tbe prospective resource
availabilities, perhaps not more than 60% of the intended investment would
be feasible.   Even with such a shortfall, external donors would have to
provide 80% of total financing.
23.        The Fourth Plan anticipates that 30% of the investment financing
will come from domestic sources (20X from the budget, 102 from bank credit
and  the  private  sector)  and  70X from  foreign aid.   The outlook for
increas¢- foreign a'd is, howeer, nuL  promising.   in fact, the Fourth
Plan anticipates an annual average of US$160 million in foreign aid for
project financing, which is almost twice what was received during the Third
Plan Period. A doubling of net external assistance, while not impossible,
does not appear very probable; a more conservative figure would be between
US$100-i30 million per year. The Government may therefore have to cut the
investment program.
24.       Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to
Burundi's economy.  In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a
convention establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries of the
Great Lakes"  (CEPGL).   The Community,  which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional
trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of
the Community is the exploitation of energy resources in the Great Lakes
region. A first step is the Ruzizi Hydroelectric Power Project, cofinanced
by the European Development Fund, the regional Development Bank (BDEGL),
Italy, and IDA, which is about to start. A glass container project, which
is the first major regional industry to be implemented under the aegis of
the  CEPGL,  is  underway.    The  three  countries  have  set  up  a  joint
development bank (BDEGL) to finance regional development projects, in
particular exploitation of methane deposits in Lake Kivu and development of
a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
25.        The history of Bank Group operations in Burundi closely follows
the three phases of the country's political and economic development since
independence in 1962.   To the political turmoil of the 1962-1976 period
corresponds a phase of li-ALted operations (coffee production, highway
engineering  and  maintenance  and  water  supply).    With  the  period  of
increased political stability, came a rapid acceleration of IDA lending for
agriculture and highways as well as an extension of assistance to new
sectors: fisheries, education, industry and rural development. Financing
was also provided to improve the telecommunications network, explore the
feasibility of exploiting nickel deposits, strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Planning, and improve the management of urban  services in
Bujumbura.   As of September 30, 1984, Burundi had received 23 credits
totalling US$196 million; 10 credits, totalling about US$46 million had
been totally disbursed.   IDA is now one of the main sources of financial
assistance to Burundi.
26.        Project Implementation.  Project performance has, on the whole,
been satisfactory.  The disbursement rate of 27% in FY82-84 is above the
average for countries of the Eastern antd Southern Africa Region. Physical
Implementation of infrastructure projects or components (roads, schools,
coffee stations,  telecommunications) has been satisfactory.   The nickel
exploration project showed that the ore content of the mineral was lower
than expected, and that exploitation of the deposit would not be economic
in  the near  future.    Implementation  of  the  pilot  local  construction
industry project has been hampered by the economic recession.   In the
productive sectors the record is mixed.  While agricultural projects had
some success in .ncreasing the production and quality of coffee, and in
increasing forest areas, they have had limited Impact on developing food
crop production because of the absence of technical packages which could be
readily adopted by farmers and the lack of a coherent policy on
agricultural inputs and services.   The DFC Project failed to develop a
pipeline of small enterprise projects in the industrial sector: the weak
management of the Development Bank compounded the structural constraints of
the country which cannot be overcome in the framework and time span of one
project alone.  Operations of the glass container company financed by IFC
are affected by poor market conditions due to lagging beverage consumption,
competition from cheaper imports in neighboring export markets and the lack
of progress in the negotiations of preferential tariffs with Rwanda and
Zaire. The fisheries project failed largely because it was too complex in
relation to the institutional and management capacity of the implementing
agency.   The impact of projects on institutional development has been
mixed.   In some projects (e.g., Coffee),  the presence of an effective
technical assistance team led to a successful project implementation but
did not result in the strengthening of the capacity of local institutions.
In the education and telecommunications projects, on the other hand,
efforts in institution building and training have lhd good results, and the
assistance provided under the Second and Third Technical Assistance
Projects has strenghtened the capacity of the Ministries of Planning and
Agriculture to identify and address key policy issues; select, prepare and
monitor projects; and improve coordination between them.   Similarly, the



- 9 -
urban project was successful in strengthening the Bujumbura uunicipality.
IDA-financed projects have also provided a useful framework for policy
discussions and decisions. Discussions under the Education projects led,
Inter alia, to the adoption of cost savings and cost-recovety schemes, a
more equitable distribution of school facilities, reorganization of
secondary education, and development of non-formal education for adults.
The urban  project has accomplished major changes in urban programs over
the past several years including the lifting of rent ceilings and the
adoption of cost-recovery schemes.
27.        Economic and Sector Work and Evolution of Dialogue.  In order to
assist  the Burundian authorities in  defining  the necessary  adjustment
policies, economic and sector work was intensified in the past two years.
In the agricultural sector, the dialogue  is  focusing on  the need  to
deemphasize reliance on complex rural development projects and to improve
research and extension services, diversify fooderop production and export
crops. design input  policies, and promote the private sector.   In the
energy sector, our dialogue has contributed to focus Government attention
and actions on key issues.   The recent discussion of the manufacturing
sector report has established the basis of a dialogue on industrial
policy. In the transport sector our dialogue with Burundi and neighboring
countries has contributed to the removal of some of the administrative
bottlenecks  on the northern route.   The population issue has been the
object of repeated discussions with the Government and is one of the main
themes of our policy dialogue with Burundi.
28.      Strategy.  IDA's strategy aims to assist the Government in setting
its short-term stabilization efforts in the context of medium-term
adjustment policies and long-term development programs designed to address
the country's structural constraints.  In particular, we plan to help the
Government in the design and implementation of medium-term economic
policies to improve resource mobilization and the efficiency of resource
allocation   through  .:he  strengthening  of  public  sector  management
(investment  selection,  monitoring  and  aid  coordination,   parastatal
management, reorientation in the management of the agricultural sector).
While recent adjustment measures show that Burundian authorities appreciate
the need for demand management, there is only limited awareness of the
options available and possible impact of measures aimed at increasing
output and productive capacity.  Our assistance in this area could have a
critical impact. At the snm time, IDA will continue to support long-ternm
efforts to develop human resources, increase agricultural production, and
develop and maintain infrastructure which will have a significant long-term
impact on production, as well as policies and specific project choices
which would improve the equity of income distribution.   Priority will be
given to the design of an action program to control population growth. We
believe that given the broad development needs of Burundi, and the need to
strengthen the management capacity of the Burundian administration, it is
important that the Bank remain active in the main sectors of the economy;
only then will we be able to provide prudent and coherent advice to the
Government on the overall management of the economy as well as sectoral
issues and policies.   No other donor or institution (with the partial
exception of the IMF) is in a position to play this vital role.



- 10 -
29.          In order to implement this strategy, our Economic work will
include the review and monitoring of the investment program, studies to
identify ways of Increasing the efficiency of the public sector and a CEM
(FY86-87). We shall work closely with the IMF to prevent duplication of
efforts.   As  to Sector work,  the  emphasis will be on  (i) increasing
agricultural production including studies on land use issues, erosion
control and agroforestry, export crops promotion and financial aspects of
agricultural projects; (ii) raising industrial output, including a tariff
study and a study on long term potential for industrial diversification and
regional  cooperation.    Ir  other  sectors,  such  as  transport,  human
resources, energy and mining, our sector work will focus on consolidating
the results of previous studies.   The lending program includes proposed
projects in agriculture (agricultural services; fooderops; forestry; export
crops), human resources (education; health/population); transport and
communications; and energy. To complement IDA resources, a special effort
wili continue to be made to assist the Government in securing cofinancing.
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
30.            Transport sector management, objectives and issues.   Three
Ministries have responsibilities in the transport sector: (a) the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW) for roads; (b) the Ministry of Transport and
Telecommunications (MTT) for the other modes and overall transport
operations; and (c) the Ministry of Planning (MP) for the coordination of
investments. Responsibility for the management of the transport sector is
divided between MPW for roads and NTT for other transport modes.  Neither
of the two ministries has adequate staff to carry out planning and
coordination of transport investments and management of the sector. Under
the Third Highway Project, a transport economist is assisting both MTT and
MPW in: (a) planning future investment needs, (b) advising on policy
matters, and (c) reviewing feasibility studies of specific projects in the
sector.   This has resulted in some improvement in the capacity of both
ministries  to  prepare  investment  programs  and  projects  but  further
strengthening is needed.
31.        The main objectives of the Government for the transport sector
are: (i)   upgrading the existing road network to support the productive
sectors of the economy; (ii) improving road access to the international
routes leading to ocean ports; and (iii) improving and expanding transport
facilities on Lake Tanganyika for international transport. Although these
general objectives for the transport sector are reasonable, criteria in
identification   of  priority  investments  and  in  selection  of  specific
projects are less clear.  In the 1983-87 development plan, about US$150
million, in constant prices, have been earmarked for the transport sector.
The share of the sector in the total capital investments of the economy is
reasonable (16.3Z).



- 11 -
32.       Port and Lake transport.  The operations of the port of Bujumbura
are handled by a private, mostly foreign owned company, but it is planned
that the Government will take over in 1997.  The port operations utilize
about 30% of the estimated annual port capacity of 450,000 tons.  In the
period 1980-83, traffic in the port stagnated at the level of 140-150,000
tons p.a.   The port is adequately managed aad has a small operatiag
profit.   Traasport operations on Lake Tanganyika betweea Bujumbura and
ports in Tanzania, Zambia and Zaire are handled by a private company,
ARNOLAC in which the Goverament has a ten percent participation. The fleet
is old and unsuited to modern transport. ARNOLAC is, however, adequately
managed and operating at a small profit.   The Gove-nment intends to
undertake major investments in port aad lake traasport, which would permit
greater use of the southera route via Tanzania; the investment program
includes a ferry boat project, repair of existing fixed iastallations and
container handling facilities, and constructioa of a shipyard and new
storage area. A port master plaa study financed by France is expected to
be completed in 1985.   The Association would review and comment on the
findings of the study and the Government would ensure that any proposed
investment in the port and lake transport sector is economically justified
(Section 3.01 (b) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.       Civil Aviatioa.  In view of the small size of the country, air
transport primarily serves Burundi's external transport needs. There is an
international airport near Bujumbura, capable of handling wide body
aircrafts, and a small airfield in the tourist area of Kirundo. Bujumbura
airport is equipped for 24 hour operations and provides service to Europe
and the capitals of neighboriag African countries. In the 1980-83 period,
passenger traffic has been growing at a modest annual average rate of 4%,
reachiag about 44,000  passengers  in  1983.    Freight traffic has  been
increasing at a rate of 11% p.a., but ia absolute terms the volume remains
small, about 7,500 tnns in 1983.
The Highway Subsector
34.        Road Network.  Burundi has approximately 5,400 km of roads and
tracks.  The length oi the network is adequate for the country's needs.
Its coadition, however, is unsatisfactory. The classified network totals
about 2,900 km, of which 744 km are paved and about 490 km are of low
gravel standard; the rest are earth roads and tracks.  In addition, there
are about 2,500 km of unclassified earth tracks. During the 1979-84 period
due to an intensive road construction/improvement program the standard of
the road network has improved markedly: the paved road network increased by
2.6 times while the earth road aetwork was reduced by 870 km or by 34%.
Road density is about 0.2 km2 or 1.3 km per 1,000 iahabitants; the latter
is somewhat below the average for East African countries. The paved road
network is relatively new and most of it is in fair to good condition. Due
to the country's difficult terrain, geotechn4cal conditions and heavy
rains, construction and maintenaace costs are high. To protect past road
investments and prevent vehicle operating costs from rising excessively,
road maintenance operations need to be intensified.   Traffic volumes are
generally light,  rarely exceeding 500 vehicles per day.   The highest
traffic volumes are on the paved roads radiating from Bujumbura.



- 12 -
35.         Transport Industry.   The industry comprises about 250 private
trucker/traders carrying mixed loads of goods and passengers. In addition
a parastatal transport company, the Transport Office of Burundi (TOB)
provides freight, passenger transport, and international road transport
service.  Tariffs for freight are set by the Government.  Present tariffs
are low, but are not observed by private carriers and prices differ
according to demand and road conditions. Tariffs are, however, observed by
the parastatal company.
36.          TOB.   TOB handles about 25% of passenger transport, 5% of
internal freight transport and part of Burundi's long distance freight
transport; it also provides in-city bus services in the capital as vell as
in the second largest town -- Gitega -- and between several regional
centers.  .:.s fleet of 60 buses has an average seat occupancy of about
75X. For its international transport operations it uses 34 truck trailers
and 21 tankers; the average age of the fleet is about three years.  It is
estimated that about one quarter of the total freight transported on the
northern route is handled by TOB and a dozen private Burundian carriers.
The international freight department of TOB is presently assisted by four
expatriates financed by the Federal Republic of Germany; the technical
assistance is scheduled to last until 1987.  TOB international operations
are profitable, and their efficiency should improve as a result of the
expected tariff revision, and the establishment of a clearing agency in
Mombasa.   Internal operations are suffering losses, which are expected to
be eliminated after the revision of tariffs now being undertaken by the
Government.
37.           There are no major problems regarding vehicle weight and
dimensions in regard to the road network since the trucks tend to be small
in  size on most  roads.   Heavier vehicles  are  used,  however,  on  the
Bujumbura-Rwanda border road to Kigali and Mombasa which handles Burundi's
long distance traffic.   A weighing station controls the weight on that
road. Under the present Road Act the maximum permissible load per single
axle is 8 tons.   New vehicle weight legislation is being prepared in
coordination with relevant legislation in Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya which
will allow 10 tons per axle. The Government intends to prepare new axle-
load limits before June 30, 1986 and to ensure that such limits, approved
by the Association, are enforced (Section 3.01 (c) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement).
38.          Administration, staffing and training.   The MPW, through its
General Directorate of Roads (GDR), is responsible for designing, building
and maintaining classified roads.  Local authorities are responsible for
building and maintaining the unclassified earth tracks. While the highest
professional positions in DGR are filled by experienced Burundian engineers
and managers, there continues to be a shortage of qualified local mid-level
technical  and  administrative  staff.    The  Technical  Institute  at  the
University in Bujumbura, created in 1982, will train about 10 to 15
engineers a year in each of the fields of civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering starting in June 1987. Under the three previous IDA-financed
highway projects and with technical assistance from France and Belgium,
efforts were made to assist GDR in training its personnel. Technical staff
have been trained in the Rushubi and Gitega training centers, created under



- 13 -
the  previous  project.;  about  100  technicians  (equipment  operators,
mechanics and drivers) were trained in the Rushubi Center, and about 300
semi-skilled  laborers  in  the  labor-intensive  center  in  Gitega.    In
addition, about 50 technicians in civll engineering and land survey
graduate each year from the School of Public Works. However, these efforts
are being hampered by the fact that most of the returning engineers and
more than half of the personnel trained In Rushubi and Gitega have joined
the private sector where salary levels are higher or have set up their own
businesses. As a result, there is still a shortage of trained personnel in
GDR, and sustained training efforts would thus continue under the proposed
project to fill the needs of both the public and private sectors of the
economy.
39.         Engineering, Construction and Maintenance.   The Department of
Design and Control (DDC) of MPW is responsible for road design and is
headed by a Burundi engineer.   Its design and supervisory capacity is
limited to small and medium-scale projects. Studies for large projects and
supervision of construction are carried out by expatriate consultants. The
Government's National Laboratory of Public Works is now carrying out mcst
soils and materials studies for both the public and private sectors.   It
has been strengthened under the Second Highway Project (Credit 773-BU)
which financed, inter alia, a new soils laboratory, an administrative
building and equipment.   Road construction is generally carried out by
contract awarded on the basis of competitive bidding.   Some improvement
works are carried out by GDR through the brigades of the Directorate of
Works (DW).  Foreign contractors carry out most of the building and road
works.   Domestic contractors carry out some building construction, haul
supply materials and construct minor drainage structures and road
protection works.   They obtai.  contracts through joint ventures or sub-
contracting  from foreign  contractors  or DV  brigades.    The Government
encourages the use of labor-intensive methods for the construction of
feeder roads. USAID is providing organization and financing of these works
for which IDA has provided technical assistance.   So far about 60 km of
feeder roads have been satisfactorily built.   DW carries out all road
maintenance works by force account except for periodic resurfacing of paved
roads.  Maintenance of earth roads is carried out by four inadequately
equipped mobile brigades based and managed from Bujumbura.  The patching
and resealing werks on paved roads are sporadically carried out by a poorly
equipped brigade.
40.            Investment and Maintenance Programs, Financing.   New road
construction is financed from the capital budget, mostly from external
aid.  In the Third Plan period (1980-83), about 83% of total expenditures
for roads were made for new construction and only 17Z for road
maintenance.   Since then, however, the pace of new road construction has
slowed markedly.   As the road network is now well developed, while road
conditions are not satisfactory, the Government is shifting priority from
capital investment to mainteaance (Section 3.01 (d) (i) of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement).  New investments in road construction need
to be carefully evaluated.   During project  implementation,  an updated
three-year investment program would be submitted annually to IDA for its
review and approval (Section 3.01 (e) (i) of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement).   Furthermore, the Government would submit to the Association,
for its review and comments, all road construction projects whose



- 14 -
individual estimated cost shall be in excess of US$3 million equivalent,
and will take into account the Association's comments before making the
decision to implement any such project (Section 3.01 (e) (ii) of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
41.       Road maintenance is financed by the recurrent and capital budgets
aud by the Road Fund, which was created in 1979 and is financed from a
special surtax on fuel.   Road users contribute  to Government revenues
through import duties; taxes on vehicles, spare parts and lubricants;
registration and licensing fees; and the special surtax on fuel.   It is
estimated that total revenues collected in 1983 were slightly higher than
the Government's contribution to road construction and maintenance.
In the period 1980-84, budgetary allocations for maintenance and the
proceeds of the Road Fund covered only about 50Z of estimated road
maintenance needs.  In 1985, however, the allocation for road maintenance
was substantially increased, and the Government intends, in the last
quarter of each fiscal year, to consult with the Association on the
proposed increase of its annual road maintenance recurrent budgetary
allocation for the next fiscal year, as well as on the level of the Road
Fund fuel tax, to ensure that expenditures for maintenance reach adequate
levels, at a minimum of US$4.0 million equivalent in 1985 prices in 1986,
to be appropriately increased in subsequent years; IDA would also be given
an opportunity to review GDR's annual budget for the next fiscal year
(Section 3.01 (d) (i) of the Draft Development Credit Agreemenc).   As of
January 1, 1984, the financial procedure for channelling funds to GDR was
simplified. An account for GDR was opened in the Central Bank to receive
revenues from the Road Fund tax.   In order to make the use of available
funds more efficient, all the funds for road maintenance would be
channelled to the GDR account already opened in the Central Bank for the
Road Fund and be used for road maintenance expenditures under the Project
(Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.           IDA Operations in tne Sector.   Three IDA financed Highway
projects  in  Burundi  have  assisted  in  improving  the  road  network,  in
training the MPW staff, and in developing maintenance activities.   The
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 467-BU, US$5.0 million), signed in
1974, financed part of the preparation and implementation of a four-year
road maintenance program, including the establishment of a manual
maintenance organization and one mechanized maintenance brigade, as well as
the provision of technical assistance for these activities and for the
training of local  staff.   It also included studies for future highway
development. The project, for which a completion report is being prepared,
appears to have been successful in improving manual maintenance.
43.       The Second Highway Project (Credit 773-BU, US$14 million), signed
in 1978, financed the paving of a major national road, the start-up phase
of an improvement program for selected secondary roads and bridges, the
construction of a new central laboratory, the strengthening of the
mechanized maintenance brigade and the provision of technical assistance
and  equipment  for  the  ongoing maintenance  program.    The  project  was
completed in July 1983 and the road maintenance components of the project
have generally met their institution-building objectives in training and



- 15 -
organization  of  road  maintenance  operation.    The  road  construction
components had cost overruns of over 50% compared to the original estimate;
this was caused by the serious disruption in international transport In the
reglon during hostilities in Uganda in 1979. The Project Completion Report
*          is being prepared.
44.       The ongoing Third Higway Project (Credit 1132-BU, US$25 million),
signed in 1981, includes improvement of selected secondary and tertiary
roads (360 km), procurement of additional equipment for the existing
mechanized brigade and for a second mechanized brigade, the construction to
two-lane paved standard of the Ngozi-Kobero road (39 km), and consultants'
services to assist in road maintenance operations, transport planning and
on-the-job training of local staff.   This project is about 80% completed
and appears to have met its objectives in road construction, maintenance
and training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.         The proposed project was appraised in May 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in March 1985.  The Government delegation was led
by Mr. I. Nyaboya, Minister of Public Works, Energy and Mines. A report
entitled "Burundi, Fourth Highway Project, Staff Appraisal Report" (No.
5335-BU dated April 2, 1985) is being distributed separately.   The main
features of the Project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary
at the beginning of this report.   Special conditions of the Credit are
summarized in Annex III.
Objectives
46.          The road network of Burundi is approaching a size which is
adequate to meet the country's general economic and social needs.   The
Government now needs to ccncentrate its efforts on maintaining this
important national asset.  The proposed project would be part of a three-
year program designed to (a) continue and expand efforts begun under
previous IDA fiaanced projects to increase the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) capacity to maintain Its road network; (b) train local staff; and (c)
improve transport planning and coordination.
Program Description
47.       The proposed program would comprise:
a) a three-year (1985/86-1987/88) road maintenance and strength-
ening program consisting of:
(i) strengthening and resurfacing of 99 km of paved roads, and
improvement and regravelling of 135 km of earth/gravel
roads; and



- 16 -
(ii) patching of the entire paved road network (744 km): main-
tenance of about 1,100 km of selected earth roads; im-
provement and maintenance of bridges; and labor-intensive
routine maintenance of the entire network (about 2,900
km);
b) training of GDR staff; and
c) consulting services for:
(i) supervision of works under a) (i);
(ii) technical assistance for uanagement of force account and
labor intensive works, training of personnel, accounting,
and for economic analysis, planning and coordination in
the transport Lector; and
(iii) pre-investment studies.
48.        Road Maintenance and Strengthening Program.  The maintenance and
strengthening program would- concentrate on priority roads. The works would
be carried out both by contract and by force account in order to (a)
increase GDR's capacity to effectively carry out road maintenance
operations without undue burden on its organization and (b) encourage more
competition in the local contracting industry.
49.       Works by Contract.  Under the Third Highway Project, feasibility
and engineering studies were carried out for 135 km of earth roads and 99
km  of  paved  roads,  permitting  adequate  assessment  of  the  level  of
Improvements which are economically justifiable. The construction details
and bidding documents are being prepared under financing from the Project
Preparation  Facility  (PPF).    About  99  km  of  paved  roads  would  be
strengthened or resurfaced. These roads, radiating from the capital, were
for the most part, built over ten years ago and have high traffic volumes.
They have been maintained sporadically and their present condition is
rapidly deteriorating.   The works would consist of (i) improvement of
drainage structures; (ii) rebuilding of some subgrades; (iii) regravelling
of shoulders; (iv) construction o)f base courses; and (v) construction of a
double surface asphalt treatment.   It is expected that new resurfacing
would be required after seven to eight years. About 135 km of earth roads
would  be  improved  or  regrave'lled.    These  roads  are  located  in  the
north-central regions, the most popLlated  and agriculturally productive
regions In the country. Traffic on these roads is seriozsly impeded during
the rainy season, due to lack of drainage, steep grades and sharp curves.
Works to be carried out would include (i) limited alignment and grade
improvement; (ii) regrading and regravelling; and (iii) improvement of
drainage structures.



- 17 -
50.       Works by Force Account.  The Department of Works (DV) would carry
out ti) patching and resealing operations on the entire paved road network;
(ii) spot improvement, regravelling, regrading and improvement of drainage
structures of 1,100 Im of selected earth roads which are located mainly in
areas  of  agricultural  and  industrial  development;  and  (iii)  normal
maintenance operations on the entire network (2,900 km) consisting of
clearing shoulders, filling potholes, cleaning ditches and drainage
structures and maintaining bridges.   To carry out the works efficiently
under the proposed project: (i) the maintenance brigades would be
reorganized and based in four regional road ma!ntenance centers; (ii) two
patching and resealing brigades would be created for routine maintenance of
paved roads and located in Bujumbura and Gitega; and (iii) 52 macual
maintenance teams would be organized with 1,500 laborers for labor-
intensive  operations  and  maintenance  of  bridges.    To  encourage  the
development of the domestic construction industry, DW would subcontract to
domestic contractors some minor works such as materials haulage, simple and
limited   regravelling,   and   construction   of   culverts   and  ditches.
Improvement and maintenance of bridges have been carried out by two small
DW specialized brigades.   The Federal Republic of Germany has provided
structural elements of bridge decks and technical assistance for tne
execution of these works in the past and will continue to do so under this
program.   These works would be complemented by an overall maintenance
program of bridges for which equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies
would be provided. The proposed program would also include rehabilitation
of the equipment of the regravelling/regrading brigades financed under
previous IDA projects, and new equipment, materials and supplies for the
maintenance of paved roads.
51.        Training of GDR Staff.  Within GDR's overall training plan the
proposed program would provide training for three years of about 100
equipment operators and mechanics, 26 personnel in general administration
and accounting and 14 management level staff in the areas of planning and
execution of road maintenance operations, organization and management of
work sites, and training organization.  The training of the operators and
mechanics would be carried out by the specialized Section A3 of the Public
Works School (PWS) which was built under the Second Education Project. As
the Ministry of Education lacks equipment and operating funds to run this
Section, and in order to achieve better control of the training activities,
the Government would transfer the responsibility of Section A3 to the
Ministry of Public Works by August 31, 1985 (Section 3.01 (f) of the Draft
Development  Credit  Agreement).    Section  A3 would  receive  equipment,
materials and supplies from the road maintenance center of Gitega with
which it would organize in the field training exercises. The training in
general administration and accounting would be carried out by the Center
for Basic and Advanced Training (CBAT) established with the assistance of
UNDF, and the training of managers would be carried out in overseas
institutions. About 60 man-months of scholarships for training at CBAT or
overseas would also be financed.
52.       Consulting Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultants would
supervise strengthening, resurfacing, improvement and regravelling works to
be carried out by contractors. GDR needs technical assistance services to



- 18 -
carry out the training program: the services of the expert running section
A3 of PWS ia Gitega are financed for a year under the PPF; his services (36
man-months) would continue under the proposed program; in addition, the
services (36 man-months) of a training expert would be provided to GDR for
planning aad coordination of trainlag activities as well as the selection,
recruitment, promotioa and upgrading of the GDR staff. To assist DW in the
execution of force account works, the program would provide: (i) three road
coastruction experts (84 nan-months) to maaage the road maintenance centers
and the brigades; the experts would be engaged under a managemeat contract
between the Government and qualified contractors; (ii) two experts (72
man-months) for the planning, organization and execution of labor-intensive
construction of feeder roads financed uader USAID, and (iii) one mechanical
expert (36 man-moaths) to run the workshop and warehouse in Rujumbura. The
program would also provide technical assistance to GDR in MPW and to GDT in
MTT. One economist and accounting specialist (24 man-months) would assist
the MPW in evaluation of road investments, traffic counts analysis and in
accouating operations and procedures of the GDR.   Another economist (24
man-months) is to assist GDT in planning and coordinating transport
investments including advising the Government on all policy matters
regarding  external  transport  routes.    Short  term  consultants  (four
maa/months) would assist in setting up accounts related to project
implementation.   The proposed program would provide for the feasibility
studies  oa  the  improvement  to  all weather  gravel  standards  of  the
Muzinda-N'Dora road, which would open access to a north-western province
(60 km), and, if construction is econoiqically justified, the preparation of
detailed engineering and bidding documea.ts.
Program Cost and Financing
53.        Aa advance of US$900,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) is being used in order to provide continuity in road maintenance and
rehabilitation undertaken under the Third Highway Project and in training
begun under the Second Education Project and to prepare the necessary
construction details for the roads included in the program.
54.         The total cost of the program, net of taxes and duties but
including contingencies, is estLmated at US$42.0 million equivalent with a
local cost component of about US$7.0 millioa equivalent (17X) and foreign
costs of about US$35.0 million (83%). The total cost including taxes and
duties is estimated at about US$43.9 million. Base costs are in March 1985
prices; physical coatiagencies of about 10% have been added to all
components except labor. Price contiagencles are based on recent estimates
of international inflation rates as follows: 5% in 1985 and 7.5% in 1986
and 82 in 1987-1988.  Government has confirmed that the financing package
for the three-year program has been substantially agreed.  Coatributions
from IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany and Belgium have already been
agreed, while negotiations are ongoing with Japaa, the OPEC Fund and ADB.
The details of the financing plan are summarized in A-nex 4.
The Project
55.             Within  this  program, IDA and  Belgium would  finance  a
self-contained project, and during the course of project supervision IDA
would moaitor the implementation of the whole program.  The project would



- 19 -
include the following components: (i) strengthening/resurfacing of 11 km of
pavsd roads; (ii) improvement/regravelling of 51 km of earth roads; (iii)
maintenance of paved roads; (iv) maintenance of earth roads (three out of
four brigades); (v) maintenance of bridges; (vi) labor-intensive road
maintenance;   (vii)   technical   asmistance   and   training   (about   300
man-months);  (viii)  pre-investment  itudLes.    The  total  cost  of these
components iJ estimated at US$22.9 equivalent net of taxes (US$23.9 mlllion
including taxes), with a foreign cost component of about US$18.8 million
and a local cost component of about US$4.1 million net of taxes.   The
proposed IDA credit of US$18.1 million equivalent and a grant of US$0.7
million equivalent from Belgium for equipment for the maintenance brigades
would cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost, while the Government would
finance all local costs.
56.       Implementation and Procurement.  The project would be Implemented
over a three-year period, starting in June 1985, by the Ministry of Public
Works tbrough its GDR except for the assistance to transport planning and
coordinstion, which would be implemented by the Miniatry of Transport and
Teleccrnmunications.   The works by contractors on earth and paved roads
vn_ula start in January and M4arch 1986 respectively, and take approximately
24 months to complete. Equipment for road maintenance should be delivered
by June 1986, about six months after notification of contracts  to the
suppliers.    Technical  assistance  for  the management of operations and
planning would be provided for up to three years starting June 1985.  The
studies of Muzinda-Bubanza road are expected to start in January 1986 and
take about a year to complete. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1988.
57.       Major civil works for the Improvement/regravelling of earth roads
and strengthening/resurfacing of paved roads would be carried out by
contractors on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Association's Guidelines (ICB) after suitable pre-qualification.
Routine maintenance for roads, such as haulage of materials, construction
of culverts, ditches and appurtances would be carried out under force
account by DTP.   Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies would be
grouped into suitable lots and procured through ICB in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines. Minor items of equipment, spare parts, materials
and supplies in lots of less than US$50,000 and totaling no more than
US$500,000 may be procured on the basis of quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers in accordance with the Association's  Guidelines.
Consultants for supervision, technical assistance and studies would be
selected in accordance with the Association's Guidelines for use of
consultants.   The planned procurement procedures are summarized in Annex
5.  In order to ensure effective implementation of the technical assistance
component, Government would appoint adequate local counterparts in both GDT
and GDR.   The training component would be implemented on the basis of a
training program to be agreed in advance between the Government and the
Association (Section 3.01 (g) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, the Government would set
up a Special Account in a commercial bank in Burundi with an initial
deposit of US$0.5 millicn from the IDA credit to be used as a revolving
fund for expenditures for road maintenance including purchase of necessary



- 20 -
fuel, spare parts and workshop tools.  The account would be maintained in
US dollars (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 4 of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
58.        Disbursement.  The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed on the                 J
following basis. a) 75% of total expenditures for civil works; b) 10OZ of
the foreign expenditures or 70% of local expenditures, if procured locally,
for equipment,  spare parts, materials and supplies;  c)  OOZ of foreign
expenditures for consultant services, technical assistance; and (d) 10OZ of
total expenditures  for  fellowships.   All disbursements  would be made
against full documentation of expenditures. Expenditures for materials and
supplies would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures certified
by GDR and consultants.
59.         Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements.   The Project
accounts, including the Special Account, would be maintained by GDM with
separate  accounts  for each componeit.   The  accounts would be audited
annually by independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Association.   The
Governmeut would submit annually to IDA all project accounts together with
the auditor's report not later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year.
Economic Benefits
60.         The main benefits to be derived from the project would be: (a)
savings  in  vehicle  operating  costs  and  (b)  prevention  of  costly
reconstruction in the future for paved roads.   Additional benefits would
result from improved road safety, reduced freight damage and accidents, and
travel  time  savings.    The major  direct  beneficiaries  of  the reduced
transport costs and improved road safety would be the owners and operators
of  cars,  trucks  and  buses.    Since  the  road  transport  industry  is
competitive, it is expected that producers and consumers alike would also
benefit  from  the  reductions  in  road  transport  costs.   Improved  road
conditions would prolong lives of vehicles and reduce their maintenance/
repair  needs.    Anticipated  reduced  fuel  consumption  should  result in
savings  in foreign exchange.    The Government would also benefit  from
savings from deferred, costly road reconstruction.   With the majority of
works to be undertaken in very low-income rural areas, and with the
deliberate employment of labor-intensive techniques, the project also would
contribute to poverty alleviation in project areas.   The proposed road
works under the program, including road maintenance, are expected to yield
an overall ERR of about 38%.   The components to be financed under the
project  have,  however,  an  overall  ERR  of  about  51%.    The ERRs  for
individual project components range between 17% and 71%. Sensitivity tests
indicate that under certain unfavorable assumptions, the ERR for the
project components will still exceed the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Burundi (8-10%). The wide range of the ERRs is mainly due to
variations in traffic volumes. For the following minor project components:
training,   fellowships   and   assistance   in   transport   planning   and
coordination, making up about 3 percent of the total project cost, it is
not possible to provide a quantified economic justification.   They are,
however, necessary for successful institution building in GDR and MTT and



- 21 -
for the achievement of the project objectives. Furthermore, these project
components would, in the long run, lead to more effective planning of road
works and wore efficient road maintenance operations.
Risks
61.        No major problems associated with the project are anticipated.
However, there is a risk that the Government's austerity program may lead
to a decline in availability of local funds for the project.  This would
cause the project targets to be reassessed and reduced accordingly. Under
these unfavorable circumstances, the program would be limited to roads of
higher priority and  higher traffic  volumes.   The  risk  of inadequate
Government counterpart funding should be, however, reduced with the
proposed increase in the Road Fund tax whose revenues go directly to the
GDR account in the Central Bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY       -
62.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the  Association  are  being  distributed  to  the  Executive  Directors
separately.
63.        Special conditions of the project are listed in section III of
Annex III of this Report.
64.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
April 1, 1985



- 22 -
Ir a 8 L A   3h                     ~Annex  I
-teS a * L! ta                                   Page  1 of  5
umuimi                 - mocin :um:canms nra   nisit
= .  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~EI T                                              (33?ISCUfhI 13fllnAU
1940(k    i97L!   UTINUL              30111 0? *M          1fl1C43J. 0?ama
SM  CIU S  O. a)
T=AL                                27.8      27.1          27.1
ASGCULTURAL                         15.O    Iu.e            22.3
SO W     Ccuh  (Us                     N0.0    110.0          230.0               249.1               1112.9
tCIANS Or OtL £qUIVALENT)            4.0       7.0          15.0                42.6                O.
iOwAns a Lm STsUCa
POPULAtIQ*.HID-!RA  (TWOISI1S)    2927.0   3350.0         4344.0
1M1 PLATIOU CXI OF TOTAL)            2.2       2.2           2.4                39.2                2.7
POPULATION PROACrLOes
PrOPUTION In IA  2000 CHILL)                               7.4
StAOlUNRT POPULATION CNILL)                               26.7
PoPULON  NEXTIM                                            1.9
POPULATION DENSITT
PR sq. a6.                       105.2    120.4          152.0                32.5                 35.
ftR SQ. 0. GR1. LUID            N1U.2      176.2         190.0               119.2                111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE (t)
0-14 TRS                         42.4      43.6          44.2                45.4                 45.4
15-14 TRS                         54.4      53.2          52.7                51.3                31.1
45 AND ABOVE                       2.9       3.0           3.1                 2.9                  2.9
POPULATWIN CROTR RATE (t)
WTAL                               1.u       1.3           2.2                 2.6                  2.8
1RI3AX                             1.3       1.3           2.6                G42                   5.2
CRaC 313IRN   (PER TIIO5)           45.2   N .3             ".5                 48.6                47.0
CRUDC DEA  RATE (PUR THDU)          25.2      24.3          19.2                17 7                15.2
CROSS REInOOUTON RATS                2.7       2.9           2.9                 3.2                 3.2
FAMILY PLNNING
ACCuPTORS. a aL ..M)                ..        ..
USESS (Z or MARED                   ..                      ..
INDEX OF FOOD  OD. PER CArITA
(1969-71-100)                      103.0    100.0          9G.0                 65.1                91.6
pSR CAPIrA SUPPLY oF
CALI:ES (2 OF REQUIREMNTS)        95.0    102.0           95.0                86.                 96.2
PROTINS (CIWS  ER DAT)            59.0      63.0         60.0                49.9                 54.7
OF NlICK AN0IAL A1D PULSE       3.0       31.0          31.0 I              15.3                 17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-6) DuATH RATE         31.0      29.4          23.5                23.6                18.7
SaLlE
LIVE EXPECT. AT BIRTS (YEARS)       38.6      *1.5 4S.5                         48.U                51.7
INFANT MoRT. RATE CPER rTUS)       163.0    136.0         123.0                117.5               102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE LATER (PWP)
ToTAL                               ..        ..            ..                21.8                35.6
RIA                                 *       77.0         94.0 /d              61.5                54.1
RURAL                                                                         14.2                27 .3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 o0 POPwUrloA)
TOTAL                               ..        ..            .,                32.0                  ..
UMAN                                 .      90           95.0 /d              49.2
RL                                  ..        ..           ..                 24.8
POPCLATION PER PUYSICIAN         98900.0  55830.0       45020.0 /a           27477.8             11948.3
PP. PER NURSING PERSON            *640.0   7490.0        6180.0 7-           3396.2               22498.9
POP. PER MospETAL. aD
TOTAL                            900. 0    740.0           ..               1069.0               984.9
NAM                               30.0    110.0                              395.2               368.7
RURAL                           310.0   1070.0                              3094.               4012.1
ADIISSIOIIS PA ROSPITAL an            .         .
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTA.                               ..        ..           4.3 /d
nUAN                                                       5.5 Id.
KARAL                               '. '         ''.3''
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROO
TOTAL
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF D5ELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        ..           0.6 /d
MU^N                                ..        ._         22.5 7.  
RtRAL                               ..        ..



-23-
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r T^L                                                         tg  ofS
BulresMI -                 1,0              Iss^   tsC^   lT 8
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                       w          (N  no" ITNM)i
TABLI ~~L toAnnez  IN
i    t     MOM2      uZwULk             OuM  or OFANAA       An      SC g. U  uMM
ADJUSTED IOUJlrNT  ATIOS
PfRIXARY    TOTAL                  1U.0       2Y.0          32.0                6H.2                  91.0
MALE                     27.0      39.0          60.0                 7.3                   90.5
,     OULA                3.0      19.0          25.0                 37.6                  73.6
StCONRART: TOTAL                     1.0       2.0           3.0                 13.1                  17.6
nALu                      1.0       3.0           *.0                 17.6                  23.7
PEALE                     1.0       1.0           2.0                  1.3                  16.1
VOCATIONAL E( OF SICONDARY)           35.0      13.6          15.7                  7.2                   5.3
UPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PAMIARY                             36.0      37.0          29.0                 66.1                 36.6
SCONMAY                             15.0      11.0          16*.0                25.9                 24.3
ADULT LITERACT RATZ CZ)               13.1 A      ..          25.0                 66.3                  35.6
PASS&NM  CARSo/HUSAND 1r               1.0       1.1           1.2 1                3.8                 20.7
UDSO XUCZVSS/THOUSAKD PFo              *.       19.4          3*05                 61.9                 100.L
TV REEvsIMoUSAIID Pro                   *.        ..            .-                  2.0                  11.2
IISPAIR t'DAULY CUIIRAL
INTEEST-) CIRCUOATION
PO TNOUSAIM POPULATION                ..       0.1           0.4 /1               3.6                  17.2
CIQU AIUNUUL ATTENDAIICE/CAIKTA        0.1 /f    0.0           0.0                  1.A                   0.3
TOTAL IAWR FOuz (THOUS)             1536.0   1676.0         203Z.0
FELALE (PEICENT)                    65.9      65.3          66.6                 36.5                 33.8
AaICLWTURE (PERCENT)                10.0      67.0          86.0                 77.6                 57.1
usR (PMRCENT)                        3.0       6.0           5.0                  9.8                 17.4
PA.TlICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               52.6      50.0          *6.6                 41.0                  36.3
MALE                                58.3      56.0          33.2                 52.1                  67.6
fLEALE                              66.9      64.4          60.6                 30.2                 25.1
EOMwIC DEPENCY RATIO                   0.9       0.9           1.0                  1.2                   1.6
IrC    DXSTRXIRTTUN
ERGENT OP RIVATE ItCMI
RECEIVED BY
ItIcEST 5201 RousEOLDs                ..        ..            ..                   ..                    ..
-iGEST 202 OF OISOLS                  .-*E-L*
LOWEST 202 0  HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWIST 0 OF rousEROLDS                ..
EST£RRED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCtE
LEVEL CUSS TR CAPITA)
RUR                                   ..        ..213.0 /h                     126.3                 525.3
RAL                                    .        ..         136.0 /h              90.8                249.0
ESTNTED REIlATIVE POVERTY INCOrM
LEVEL (u5 PER CAPITA)
URtAN                                 ..        ..            ..                107.7                677.4
r                   RURAL                                 ..        ..          37.0 lh              65.0                 186.0
ESTIMATED POP. LELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (Z)
URB                                   ..        ..          55.0 /b              36.7
RURAL                                 ..       ..           ss.O                 65.4
OOT AVAILALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   Te group av.ra5e for oach indlcator are poPulAtlawo-lghted arithmelc *mans.  Coverage of couctries *mong the
indicators depends on avallability of data and La not unlform.
lb  Unles otherwise noted, -Dat, for 1960- refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; -Dsta for L970- betweom 1969 and
1971: and data for tIoat 1ae-nt Eatlata' between 1980 and 1962.
Ic   1977;  Id 1979; /t 1975;  If 1962. LL 1976;  lh 1978.
JUIE. 1986



-al24-                                                                   Annex I
en.. miss                                     r~~~a-ge -5 of  5
flitS   s11 . l  aw.  -9 diat lm  me   j.cewll d     iib  JaMpi flb aell eM-t.ttlml  al .mlbmls. to utiM .1- 6. wMad .l.1 lIme -   af b- Ife-smIte..ll
c..sa. Im *8 e in0 . a..ssdladie iiecistallial teepee .5 6 dlnfme.a Mnstk. Ia vaibilcui lb dotl. lb dm0nn me wibbm.14. awets I.
lb    bat    agt  ..1   lb   a       owal cs    No  .1 lb  lteS  swan oa    61 .6mStY limo dwi-.0a    Ib as lce lmbalysf5.9b
"nita   an.  .e.sea we.(Ifl &.        II) tmenm ~   £1e.5 565m . "l iaete t.t 4m..or.a  mat. born Waler.   b.are   1.1v uSawe it e.-OM.ta~..               lb
efatitmIal.  It elb  rF~ebat  vaimg doa lbt a-M.. MpiLOiLc.1 ulatleS  ermhou1d in  u.s well 811546al  Lt d 0     -lp  ~               letty .1 lb. dastcu  l.a
6.a S bsItetI. t. uM sVW a.-Ncp .F saIfl. -Mt" lb 36twt dog. -f Ulb B'ell"ilEltIl de a. am I. -1 sd5e.g. tellilt weat I
...ee.sd a ..iete .ne.u     at Iseles- ..'. Abs.. I         -4 sees-    1-  . wI.I Ie meapte t.. lb   w ..c     5at saieftma  a  . In    spl  ceITt,  Ow
dmh...a .q.lt.i                                                    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t" lfnmjLtUZI   - peplsiltlI dgteds4 llp *156   *8sttsln
%     - 7..1 ~t*ei.  t. AM-pe1al  Sai An. a  I.I tud istreem  luS,                  flllIt   01914Iaa  s t .dbl *4_ -1 ctstl   14.58
-'  ai*tl 4do..                                                                    fffjtlis5r   ..u    .. M?':"       .Llesl j .l. I.  rV *5p01..
mpzUaS f        iet  emamw  arvuse  aSc1i- ...4 d 1mo1r451 11. U04569eelIl   cce'at.mlse Man'neut truMaldn eSat-  .
tell-I IS 111*05.1.4 m        944  II. 1FttIMs  OVA.                   ie.eq te   l
*0 Se 'Wll LSP -icuP., mtcitni.       15cSe   p9lr..           ..&OltCl  Ill P.1. ad psitti. i.-o.u   a4                                            I.t-Icd  lItIld,
H'letellb  tells al iflid I0O sic- (Itl-2 11.4.11                              `.hehhlllmtag   -a".s. Reep11.It 151 atatcllthall. p.sntmlt elellad
lift 1,4  ad ml di1'.                                                                 b6 as Icelat   phit1clee.   alill    554WSte.tyllSeat1
uSc.                                                               a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   melm.dd.6.1 hceL.I., tat... 6-.14  6".1  Aid
Pstltt  11414IitI., pe..li%  taunet me .1 lyi. u.l..rSiu-.    t tiSil.  ct)  t   tils i-wt.l  ..ewd..l ctd
.5l mebret .i.tllitIlL) I. Shhgir.su  uS .11 suitti  .5 1111.1 ibm.11ed.  41 8.115tka  VwIa' d   di "I                         ill me, ...
IO". as  "ml. da..                                                                     .Ilusgih3i"                 T-6ta     M~b   '.f dklat  I.e   . a dite Otted
!"       AM UN        0 % ... )-mt M dtSete. IstoA IO.i  a IMz =                                               4    % ~          S tIl..l.
at~ eeastti its,  ta,al  uts d.                                                  lb  aatd  9..wagambIent m.ellc.m.
MS   u           -       ; em,Wm.1         Lp-[i. paltate .5   -:i thr.    -?...Ir:l r.                                 ri a_-    ~ap-    we acEnell aelstcs    I
- -,           awaalia     a  am.IOe.  iegtoa desemliy                           aiem        d imte aly. 'sakimIW"tell.       t4sel   SltOl
1.1.41. fltjtt   pmtet   539   illily  at ON1'atm P1 lh""                       .ilogoM t.d  wit.                ~
mw e.al     q q&,     i.0 aweaty aw easl. eee.1.e..c .me teawe p.s'                 bra.   .  -islwaslei,y.. - cc  imlet ..d  la-eti  46l amt-. s
ew-a. l.     ta-i plad 9l1   iSl *lanea ltt a ulttm ll.d   cc  4                    InIcull..tid ealli    11  I11i9IIllIl*l.                          llll
sletma    eta..   es sentelb s--lida..  Ibm1 tire_
cellia.  n   .1   -s.tel  a fa nitits ls. .      Sla p.m.e ia1. nsSaae.  M                          ltwhlabla.amdLtIVl   -1
Saftmsain4.lal-    c   I.-Iqa      Lsw    a   caaslaw,..sted  -  f.tiiter                                                        ..  114  e.a ut
piLedt VW      - .J aw alt  in  PA.Sel. tULesawl.-.t8 t15    IA-iiymsm-e.m.                                                                       .suis.
detaIlate It lIt. It ualitaiduea V451.eul  tl te9 g.taS'        -PIIs.111v use mlAl. c  bolue  e c-be. e .SrIA  ucteut .45. -1
641.6 lbf pallel        iltui. plmiS . lb.b6    E.15W  il   -sic.                     h          eai fLas t"   .  eflaci  awe  -9 o4.4  d-lablc  t.etds
1.43 wpak' tlb 1.14    ellI. 4t amtilg .90"W     . tt fvi teaf. w tus.                  adEitea dt5iA  Wue                """i4Fiii49Jc"l "I utllt.14
'1t5L l      I   b1541969dt.AI.  rsI-aSa                                                  tel. t..it.l-   i-.l.u %*w. intaltiiutita  5.
bye. lb  le whetbm  t            '"      "      '- -   red `et.Udae. It  tit.  he1-t 6.1  cied   6  i1.e.t   5I  ,I eLb.   le1-en-ttedta  a'u.St"
PM. e.*  iesl  te .4nailifa CLI 9*. t    mt4  .4"..   6                                  e..W   triS
lILlets --     1 w     meta   uOlt-l- 141. m.p.maiMm  d-lb.9  3. laalaa                 e.   e*l..  .hLll   9A.e  X54A                  t.t-.stt   I
Ills c.a.lu  Lbs m e1 le  ri H. 1se.u.ede            - ti-I irm nc                    ludi.u.leiI       .dpaebl 9-. ISO.   PtiA Mc
I.. .td.115.             --    1S           _~     4. Jw.l                          SelI.s.is  ei- 5111.1    l                  .      .s.ie.Ie1u
14114il.1    il  t6 it.t   I61   d   ~aSutlq.ert  lte.                                                            ..                   .    .gi c   vn.I
.11111 in.. tue   a  tam 'date.=                                              
t.   -.s.. ad -L..i     Csi.e   a  s.) - P.-..mn  .5 ftIAwsdc.  hSt es.*iilfl-feeti  4.fls                                                              1
pONLattaet mit". lSee. a0 Ina ft.                                                      1lw- .-Ia         t    *l    .tli,ce    .emu    ut,
telcele.  et ma(e-tl-IIl                .      e    t   4118 d-                       mulen  .tit.
I-rei Oe imi           so, a  mis-.                                              aetla-ead Steilaw  I. is ,fte.a  1 . pl.e..b U.4uta9ta4le tO m4i.
..~~ i 1. 195.. ad mittl a..                                       saNeld-       rVat  tlteeite.-
£55  tRInt  altes   co l- WaA                 a u m    5  4Mcri bstmn le1atIbem                                      me-9 ttS.I  ule  99hesc
..nlcic.  hi. is          dce.       .u-.  ilal aa 6               t              wn.! lwet'lI ailcu   ae . 11cc sus.la.lei .mie elVsM.d  S flmt..r
RE~Mar.as u.US.t -A...tb  49-G d.sliIew  SI              let.r bat I                     Itcathe a    II -4 55t eawl    *all,t15l6. ci S6.. doait  . slId.4 1
IntlItir rIte. easIly st...,.e   ..sq.. .stIm i. mm. miSs. aPsIL tie d...am  .entik 11l5flw 111pc05.   -.Ft'     p.SO.dtll
554k Pis 1..       tieenbet4 -                --(=   4_u   l 0.5q 49 .nn.e               aML - iAt..I   1sce      ..   msse               1-
tln.een  dIe.. ad  se.e V-ci. d-    testy p-c.ie"lm   .ui0...   rlws   sV.    sl       b0  
Felts Plerellaw  e     se. cal   esl ged     -. Fmslaeee .5 115.15                      .541. alt...Wela  ,,a
a      -d oldctw        a. em  seslc   -  0.  6.4-  -4..-.
name. " t.Imcsete   ~   eaedS   ll                    t.m.5..                                             3m   A  94      t..ies     -S .  t..sesw
-  .-.I-   fill-t.                                             I~~~~~~~~sullt. '9 .11ee. LbI-cte   I. ceit  cn455 t-.1 1
P           L- 5.  -SsW       Id..  csiere                                 ~           hf!SlJ  SeI. t5 U              ... 1  n.s.   t.e team lab  lWe
V=                                              pl~l m4   ai.1    rcec.   .i-bl, t   siij14i....1.    "LdLc Se.. I stelet s.sinl9s  tcsII ...a
me,        a5       e45).i  t5.-- 15.1al  act  retssl 65 .9.1 t                                     warsltl -d Pbs    -. p- .te . etleIseIl.W,. - .IsSSIsu  ad
4ay.   ntt*h. e.gei.e sa"     4-t.jse    aei  pedetie. late  lee                    ii          awl9'.m  Itt ds..  The.-  6.     U.4 8. yweutst.tInae
cs-tI:e  wed in Iasemac   ad te..  I. d1t"atStbtt.  Ranal54                            se  .s.t  e    s  letitl tam
.1141  lmtibtS      11 by . TOP l5..i.lt.  -d. 5.. .stt                           l                    43 j     - V.tit.e sIpelal. ecde Ita -I 14ess
.elflst.y  ad tectll. t-eid.fl  .uetsace1m  septrea       edlattte.tm                            a P.vIcl.-4 itte   cod 131.4.
Ma  a  we ditmrIthcn    49f Pe.i.etlis. ad .izet   it s.rt  eat
a     W-eiAtai  1114.1955 Sd its dcl.KWS.tTSl4
Se41.mml  4etem  es   s0   . Psinel. se=l9 e   ut                                        i~Jt7..iee119   tcetasel-bi.   t94
-t ~e5y  i ss  s A,.tesemt e5_d I dmn55-   *ee    -ast   ll        e1f.scue  0,rm.cdseetS.514
pIttaI.f lee .11 eccI.s pa.. le,           a,ellO6 I   aul  tee amt                    Iluebt
5.1. t...S. .  ditchl Ots.. ctect.. lafnta  WauLt.L.ike
acccsdc -   ta.sb   ChewIb    .6 is  weat,n  oat. snel P-;.    5I                    itelifltHMMaM      ee.a.  msy s,pe_Scu t_ ma..     p-mPs. L-m.. el5
49cte   etlel  4-nc., Sm fts  -Ml. sa SaP"t  I.                               .tU.t  - tcnmtd.11 .eudete  etlm
Thir U.md Ped 2.10ly, m1lm-t. ilt -d itedel                                           651.55h  At.llcIe.u = 11.....  em L    uts set eltel-ete4..1  -1
fet,1.1   .S..ul s-ne eeI mi .5..e-  "wsute lw .,plt.  sald                               elmsestl.              tulIdIcla.ilte411eiet
aw".                                                                                   .lent.M.
0.114 L.a  1-4) ftaC Sce .-      lmed    - c.   4-.4.1 - sel 1.e.cA L.                 lsesStleSml   1m   aise  e   lo     sc   s   c
a    W    -.yna Selte..wl          fitt_  ,s.n   fet    eattbetnmIpell   Se1.1  i   eSld.  4.46sul
,lia dMia dan'wd f-  lic. UK-: Jim. 1970betI "'t .)s"                               hra tIder. eeal. 1   ell  Be ested tee.V -I
Z1-91.901 tsInslef fi. %It.t.t- Imlt  .eaff  seemLwst.s 
pee *  4.sits-d lIel1n6 J1un. tillk a   "Ie  dat.
Le.  i  i   tt.tM.n.  .5emiLn)-fl!   1.   5t11 
0.15   ..Ie  ta.  nt.  a  n4t  4t  r.witt eee  c ef MeuanIem41.8  ittI                                                                       ' .14!.a
-a   .wpt (t.-= ,; tsecd tcpfwa. lea   e etait-d tea                                                                  sutc teli. ed Se.ta   tet
-tctts   41  me me ftit se  -c...d Q.slbt.. wrluiw. 4.ld   ft
ataeet)apesapcu  cI twit  s....2I  sallltiaace.  I. -
abeaeptMltt  Sweti.. .e."PMSlL Ied 'w   a  16. iLl etl.
ss      e.a   eted.s   ectelIg .ttttt .us'.tZ   e-. If 11t
Ia..I. tee te   s. Let.  ma  -mhA oloSt wl  nb t-eatS.a
ets. M  IA Cllebllellt    a  b. t. lad.pc       tlsttpt
ettc  - bosc. mt.tmn"wlOIe.e   i.meel-tetus                       5    .t
1- -.1 eF papt. S1..i6. a        d .     sMell L tu   6  mfI  4.0.
,m    9 mtt.tIwt. ce.I.  .11L5.t,a m 11i5t e7 Whims
a.-11 te    et 6 diev.I.blee  .stceat4."wba. 49pe  pstet.e 
tt.       ----er  lililel -wlaaeie   rtte.-fltpaw     a



-25-
Annex I
Pge 4Tof 5
COUNTRY DATA
27,865 102                           4.3 ualloc (odd 19B2)                           155 k*2 of Wtml am
Total Agdiztie 17,20O  J2            Pate of paEth 2.4  (1977-)
PCFIEATJflN CHAfACnRJMJ     1180                              WALI (1979)
Crude Birth Pate (per 1,000)         45                          Pkulatim pr plyuican    4:.MO
CraDeath Rate (per 1,000)            22                          lbpaatian per hlptal bed    744 (1970)
A  I=  O PIMPD VA=l                                           Aa         TD EL YMM
Urbsl poilatimn, Z                   94                          Z of papslatim - total 
- col           as
xii~rriai (1974-78)                                              1XrTXW  (1978-)
Clode 1lztAk m Z of requiremets    99                            dult litracy are Z            25.0
Per capita pwon intake (gram/day)  61                            PMury  odol ereU    Z          30.0
a/
GNP CAzzA ni 1983.:- us$2o
GPM  DOIE=C PRMUEr                                               ANUAL RAM W LUI (K, iwtmt prim)
S83 Va
iss Mmi                         1970-f77             1978-83
QP at   re pries                     1,110.3        100.0                3.1                 2.5
Grow Domestic invesbmit                141.1         12.7               28.3                 8.4
Cross Ntiosl Saving                     16            1.1               17.7                 3.1
Owrent Aount efieft                   -130.8       -11.8                                    27.5
Ralpar  of Goos, GES                   107.8          9.7              -1.9                  5.5
IwoLt of Goods, G6S                    261.0         23.5                7.7                 6.0
aMf, IAu  FIZZ A) PRICrVIY IN 1992
Valia Midald               I    Force Vo sw
us$ mimi   -                 too                     L  
hgr.iculte                             3595.2        58.8        1,762         82.3       337.8   71.5
Iuhtty                                 164.2         16.2          270         12.6       608.1  12B.6
services                               252.7         25.0          109          5.1     2,318.3  490.4
Tital/Awerage                      1,012.1        100.0         2,141       100.0               iiD 00.0
-DWDE    FM =                                Cktr    Govemte
(NBT IHM 11-- Perent of of
1983        1983      1978&-
Olrrezz 3evm                        12,858           12.5       14.6
OxTet xmuditure                     13,470           L3.1       12.0
OQint Surplus                         -612            0.6        2.6
capitea        ture b/              16,659           16.2       11.6
99tem  Asdstw                      (12,424)          12.1       (7.4
a/ Atl  metblxbly.
1w Tclude Pir enterpri, foreig fixuim  projets, ad deit repyeuat.
NDt aplIcale
Not avilablp.
N?e: AU cowerio,  o dllars in ths table are at tii awage FBuSO per 1E$ .due zate
preva1iM% dudg tbi period cwme.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
MM, =T  and MM                       1978      1979         1980        1961        1982      1913
my   d amQuai-%qy                   9,696    11,034       12,681      15,698       15,378   19,452
Bnk credit to Cental. Govermut    1,5         3,860        4,496       7,178       9,344   12,355             J
Bak credit to Private Set           5,835     8,367        9,793      12,760       12,976   14,570
(kErealu8  or  Nde    1r.)
lWr and Quasid-4b y a Z of GP        17.7      15.7         14.7        17.6         16.8     18.9
Amial prcutae Fcgs in:
enea.l Price 2Iex                     7.3      25.5         12.3        12.0         5.7       8.3
Bank credit to Pblic Secto          715.1     156.0         16.5        59.7        30.2      32.2
Dan creit to Private Sector         115.0      43.7         17.6        29.6         0.3      12.3
BALAN  OF PANS                                                       lmAIV          EXS (AVE  1978-83)
1979   1980   1981   1982 1983                          US$ MLfliai  I
O(Hffl;; Lis Dols)
E.xports (g4afS)                  112      74     89    13   ODO   Coffuee                70.5      87.8
ImPorts (gnhfs)                   193    205    208    261  257   Cotton                   2.4       2.9
Resorc gap (deficit - -)          Tia -131                            hg   -       1S 1    2.2       2.8
AU otber caxditin  5.2          6.5
Ilterest pymets (net)               4      9       7      3    4
lAbor inca                        -14    -16    -24    -31  -29                 IDIL      8         100.0
et tzaifers                        34     47      48     50   45
Ba e ai current ae¢it             -57    -91    -E8   -U3T  -UT
Diect fore        isvestmets        -       :      1       2    1   EreqAL mur, m           31, 19B3
capiz grsats                       25      35     39      37   40
e    X,           al               39     41      29      51   94
DisbIrsImeI-I                    42      45     32      54   98                                  US$n
I        rIization                3       4      3       3   -4    FbbUic Debt, mci. gamrted     284.0
Otber capital (net)                -    -10       -6     -3   16   Nd                   Private Debt
Other items NEI                   -11      7      -5      11  -17    Ibtal outstarig & Dlab.
Increase in mt zees (-)             4      6      32      34  -16   DEMB SOI(Z RATI   R 1983 b/   X
Gross reserves (end year)          86      90     72      42   54  Rlihik  Debt, lml. glaDteal   10.0
lU    rOXumntee Private Debt
imports of petroleum products      13      25     32      30   29  Iutal ootstwmU    and disb.        ..
mID LEW, Septedler 30, 1984
Ofin US DoUars)
RA      E NsWAM
nutstaodng & Dlsbased          125.4
U$1 - FBu 90  1976&bveuier 23, 1983                 Uxklshirs                                        70.9
(tstandig ioeindg
SI. Fbi23   Nvember 23, 1983-present                                  unnlshbrsl                    196.3
a/ IBD  Debt Reportig SstYM.
/  ati of Debt Servic  to Eport Of Gods art Nalactor Services.
.. Not available.



- 27 -
Annex II (Page 1 of 2)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Amount
Loan or                                                    US$million
Credit                                                (less cancellations)
Number      Year   Borrower       Purpose         Bank   IDA 2/ Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and ten credits fully disbursed        4.8   45.53
731 BU      1978   Burundi    Development Bank    -        3.40      0.12
918 BU 3/   1979   Burundi    Forestry             -       4.30      0.47
976 BU      1980   Burundi    Second Education    -       15.00      0.84
1049 BU     1980   Burundi    Urban Development   -       15.00      7.54
1058 BU     1980   Burundi    Telecommunications  -        7.70      2.74
1132 BU     1981   Burundi    Third Highway        -     25.00       3.23
1154 BU     1981   Burundi    Nickel Exploration  -        4.00      0.71
1165 BU 4/  1981   Burundi    Kirimiro Rural
Development       -      19.30     11-28
1192 BU     1982   Burundi    Integrated Rural
Dev./Ngozi III    -      16.00     11.48
1230 BU     1982   Burundi    Local Construction
Industry          -      5.20       3.51
1358 BU 3/  1983   Burundi    Third Education      -      15.80     10.09
1419 BU     1983   Burundi    Ruzizi II Regional          15.00     13.79
1456 BU 5/  1984   Burundi    Third Technical
Assistance                5.10      5.10
Total                               4.8   196.33      70.90
Of vhich has been paid          4.8     0.32
Total now outstanding           0.0   194.46
Amount sold 1.55
of which has been repaid 1.55
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                 0.00  194.46
Total undisbursed                                70.90



- 28 -
Annex' U (Page 2 of 2)
J. Statement of IIC Iuvestments
(as of September 30, 1984)
J
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor          Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1981      Verreries du    Glass container    4.8       0.8       5.6
Burundi
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        4.8      0.8       5.6
Total comnitnents now
held by IFC                                 4.8      0.8       5.6
Total undisbursed                              1.1     0.1       1.2
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
31 The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$1.2 million.
4/ lacluding a NORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.
/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 1 of I
L.                              SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
BURUNDI
FOURTH TIGHWAY PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identificatioa                September 1983
(b)  ProJect Preparation   :       April 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission      :      April 1984
(d)  Negotiations                  March 1985
(e)  Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:       Julne 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
-    Consultaats for supervision of strengthening and
improvement works.
Section III: Special Conditions
-    Review of Investment Program for roads and of new road
projects (para. 40)
-    Review of port master plan (para. 32)
-    Issuance of and enforcement of vehicle weight legislation
(para. 37)
-    Increase of budgetary allocation for road maintenance
(para. 41)
-    Increase ia Road Fund Tax (para. 41)
-    GDR account in Central Baak for counterpart funding
of Project (para. 41)
-    Special account (revolving fund) (para. 57).
-    Implementation of training component requires prior
agreement on trainiag program (para. 57).



Annex IV
BURUNDI
Fourth Highway Project
Government. Ro&d Maintenance Program
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA     EDF    Japan      FRG    Belgium    ADB    Govt.   Total
or     of
OPEC Burundi
1. Strengthening/Resurfacing        1.4      8.5                                           0.4    10.3
of paved roads
2. I.provement/regravelling         1.7                                            1.2     1.2      4.1
of earth roads
3. Maintenance of paved roads       1.0                                                    0.1      1.1
4. Maintenance of earth roads       4.3             2.5                0.5                 0.2      7.3
5. Construction and main-
tenance of bridges             1.4                       2.3                          0.3     4.0
6. Labor - Intensive main-
tenance                        0.1                                                    1.9     2.0
7. Training (technical as-
sistance and fellowships       0.8      0.5                                                   0.8
8. Consultant Services              2.4                                                    0.3      3.2
9. Project Preparation              0.9                                                            0.9
Subtotal                      14.0    9.0      2.5        2.3     0.5         1.2     4.4    33.9
Contingencies                  4.1    2.4      0.5       0.2      0.2        0.4      0.3     8.1
Total                    18.1   11.4      3.0       2.5      0.7        1.6      4.7    42.0



- 31 -
Annex V
BURUNDI
L                                        FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
1/
Procurement
21     Not         Total
Project slement            ICB    ICB   Other    Applicable      Cost
Civil Work                 5.1     -      -          -            5.1
(4.5)                                  (4.5)
Equipment, Material
and Supplies             9.6     -      0.5        -           10.1
(8.0)    -     (0.4)                   (8.4)
Consultant Services
aad Fellowships           -      -      -           4.6         4.6
(4.3)       (4.3)
PPF                         -      -      -           0.9         0.9
(0.9)       (0.9)
Personnel of GDR            -      -      -           2.2         2.2
Total                     14.7            0.5         7.7        22.9
(12.5)          (0.4)       (5.2)      (18.:)
1- Figures in parentheses indicate the amounts financed by IDA.
21 Local shopping.



p               \    g  f                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U G  A N       D
Rugam          -.                                                           /
q                                                       Y,
Rutshuru  I  Kaai { */ K;;kimba  t_) V i C r 0 r                      S P<
Rugomb     d       .z   I' Rluy;:mb   \_ r
/~~~~~~~~gz U%O\aA L|Sahijng \Gtg    j              .ba
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I \    utamba m  *ss.1b.                                        ,S -      - - .
/?.e. Lac
Y~~~~ ! i Kiqoma  9
Kolemie  2          _ LaTe
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ganyI91a
CHAD              J
I- a'-                                         -\<
J      S U D A N  | -^--                    . 
CETALr  ETHIOPIA               -.'
REPU AIC _                     O  E    |\ \
-     _ 'KENYA                         >  \ A               's-.
IWA  L*  -.  INVIA N
Z A I R E3~,BURUNOa I       ~t
z . I   CTNZ N Es,_twEU DIA ) OCEA IV         , .                                             KILOMETERS O        10
ANGOLA     i i                                       MALo MpuI_                                            ---
i ; . !MOZA MAAGg        Z   A   M    B    I   A                                             s       -
rwai      ZIMBABWE                              30'                                                                35'



IURD 152618R
B U R U N D I
Eldoert                    INTERNATIONAL  SURFACE  TRANSPORT
I5;r            >                                          CONNECTIONS
-.  -Paved Ros toe Canstructed
Kiswnu                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved roads
-Earth foods
Paved roads under study
-Railways
Railways under study
Waterway
*   National copitals
O  Cities a torIW
SyA*  I    k               _._ International boundaori
16~~~f          1
.20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Ares<X/ N    Ar                                                           A
<\.                                <           >or5/~~~~~~~Mooqr
N~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~~                ~~~~~~~~ Z  A NIA  T , 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/~~~~ CE Al NDf 
% S   A     L      A    ^      M~~~~~ESSA"
ETESS 0        100        200         300         A00
MM*.   gnso  OM  Of Tt        of    @   *
an ,wv             orI                                                       4r    ,
DECEMBER 1984



- v           C E N T R A t                   E T\                                      30'                                    o-
C   ROOI  A f ICAN REPuBtLIC  >    U 0 A N   ETHIOPIA
8  A M E R O O h                        t _,A_BURU_DI
?C ONGO)      Z A I R I      /UGANDA         E N Y A                                               BURUNDI
(A 6 O NA J      RWANDsA'-IL$.                                          FOURTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT
,  ,J                  BURUNDIi,g i                                                                  ROAD SYSTEM
.%I A N Z A N iA
NGA N     G                                                                                                             7 t A  .  MA A T  *
t  !i ROZAMBIOUTt|
Z A M IAI A
|-e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r7
0                                 To Kigali
KIlIhallyl~~~ ~~~~~~~~                                                 haugm
ui                                                                                              IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
G IE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10



_4,   j/   -/>\ R  m olle$;ty°)                    9           4     - /      *~~~~~~~~~~~~ REGIONJAL ROAD IAAINTNAC CENEARSP0
(  }   |   SZ~~ \   UiFe*no    \i\  " e   s                         B~ROA  TO BE STUDIED
ulnda {   /URA\Mll   \ (YA                /EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE-
LLI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
y  /   |    7S; j         \            \4ItiblmbogI                               PAEG
|   !  Nyontoto\     $0/ r                 |~~j            -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-4-JO'  <      l              5      $zr                    t              -''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- PROVINCIAL BOUHOARIES
fS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T K.borJTootgoe 
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om a *-rco |                                                          Yin;.
430  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~         PORT~~~~~~~~~0 -1
21  (                  j              /                  °     t°~~9  i  20   30   49 
:XX 2 . ; g :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A .- Al: . ;WA /r Trw hr*t SJe s.I..... I t  re 01                                                    is      s      ^     r      ¢
_ }. : 1  .  r. , r __ w _- ~4c  d



