Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20625
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(28612; 28656)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.2 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF PERU
FOR NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS-GEF
JUNE 23, 2000
ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR MANAGEMENT UNIT
LATIN AMERICA AND CARRIBEAN REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their |
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authiorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = New Sole
3.5 New Soles = US$ 1.00
US$ =
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA                  Canadian Intemational Development Agency
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GIS                   Geographic Information System
GOP                   Government of Peru
GTZ                   Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
INRENA                National Institute of Natural Resources
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
NGO                   Non-Govemmental Organization
PROFONANPE            Not-for profit entity of public interest created to administer assets (Pro
Fondo Nacional para Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SINANPE                      National System of Natural Areas Protected by the State
(Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas por el Estado)
TC                   Technical Committee
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Christine Kimes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Claudia Alderman



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Armex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8. PROFONANPE ICR                                                             27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007928                                      Project Name: NATL PARKS - GEF
Team Leader: Claudia L. Alderman                         TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 22, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: NATL PARKS - GEF                              L/C/TF Number: 28612; 28656
Country/Department: PERU                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/31/94                                Effective: 04/01/95          06/01/95
Appraisal: 07/31/94                                  MTR: 12/01/98              12/01/98
Approval:  03/20/95                               Closing: 01/01/2000          01/01/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PERU/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Burki
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                         Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Christine E. Kimes                        Nicolas Krafft
Team Leader at ICR:   Claudia L. Alderman                      Claudia Alderman
ICR Primary Author:   M. Gary Costello
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project has four major objectives:
(i) provide a long-term and predictable source of funding for the protection of Peru's biodiversity through
the establishment of a trust fund, the income of which would be used for financing the management of
priority protected areas;



(ii) improve INRENA's capacity to protect and manage Peru's protected areas;
(iii) provide the country with a reliable institutional mechanism to channel debt donations for sustainable
development and conservation through bilateral and commercial debt-for-nature swap agreements; and
(iv) test the viability of trust funds as mechanisms for providing long-term and sustainable funding for
biodiversity conservation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
Rating       Component                          Sector               Cost
HS       INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                             XX                5.00
S        FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS                            XX                 .711
S       LEGAL FRAMEWORK                                     XX                 .650
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overview
This project was designed to assist Peru in its efforts to protect and preserve the nation's rich biodiversity.
The Bank preparation team and the govermment counterparts recognized the importance of establishing a
strong non-govermmental institutional base to provide long-term financing for protected area management.
The most important factors affecting the achievement of project objectives were: (i) the financial investment
management and annual return on the US$5.2 million GEF grant, The Trust Fundfor the National
Protected Areas of Peru; (ii) the establishment and strengthening of the legal and institutional framework
for protected area management; and (iii) the leveraging of GEF seed capital to attract donations from other
donors.
The project was initiated prior to the establishment of the log frame evaluation methodology. Nevertheless,
during project preparation performance indicators were identified and they have been evaluated on a
continual basis during implementation. A discussion of those indicators can be found in Annex 1.
Considering the project objectives prevailing at the time of grant approval, the project has met and even
exceeded objectives. The annual project audits reflected satisfactory financial management.
Specific objectives achieved were:
-2-



(i)    Provide long term and predictable funding for the protection of Peru's biodiversity.
PROFONANPE began operations in 1993 with support from the Governments of Germany (GTZ) and
Canada (CIDA). In December 1995, the GEF made a contribution of US$5.2 million to establish a
permanent endowment fund. Since that time, PROFONANPE has consistently channeled substantial
funding for protected area management in Peru. The returns on the original investment of the endowment
fund provided by the GEF has generated sufficient annual income to: (i) cover the administrative costs of
PROFONANPE; (ii) channel resources to protected area management programs; and (iii) be reinvested into
the seed capital to maintain the real value of the principal. More importantly, however, the initial GEF
seed contribution has catalyzed additional long-term funding for protected areas amounting to over US$ 27
million. Between 1996 and 1999, PROFONANPE disbursed a total of US$ 6,481,926 for management
and conservation activities in 14 protected areas. This is more than twice the amount projected at
appraisal, which estimated a cumulative disbursement of US$2.96 million for four years. At the time of
the ICR preparation, PROFONANPE was negotiating new funding in the amount of US$ 20 million from
the GEF, the Netherlands, and the MacArthur Foundation. The outcome of this objective is rated " highly
satisfactory."
(ii)   Improve INRENA's Capacity to Protect and Manage Peru's Protected Areas. The resources
channeled by PROFONANPE are providing INRENA with funds to meet the basic recurrent costs of 10
protected areas for a period of ten years. PROFONANPE's resources have enabled INRENA to use its
own budgetary resources to extend its administrative coverage to 6 protected areas that previously were
unmanaged and had no park personnel. The number of park personnel has grown from 60 in 1991 to 278
in 1999. At the sarne time, with more budgetary stability, INRENA has been able to develop and implement
improved management policies including: (i) a reduction in the field staff turn-over (ii) increased training
opportunities; (iii) more efficient budgetary transfers to the field offices; and (iv) implementation of
entrance fees programs which now make up more than half of its operating budget. The participatory
process built into the preparation of PROFONANPE's annual work plans has opened a small but imnportant
door for the participation of non-governmental actors in the decision-making-process in protected areas.
Finally, the improved management capacity of INRENA has enabled it to assume an important leadership
role within the National System of Protected Areas (SINANPE). The outcome of this objective is rated"
satisfactory."
(iii) Development of Institutional Mechanisms for Debt-for-Nature Swap Agreements. The
existence of PROFONANPE was of critical importance in obtaining agreements with bilateral donors on
debt swaps and other donations. PROFONANPE has negotiated 6 debt swaps amounting to US$ 21.2
million. The outcome of this objective is rated "highly satisfactory."
(iv)   Test the Viability of Trust Fund Mechanisms for Long Term Funding of Biodiversity
Conservation. The project has had substantial fund-raising success, demonstrating donor confidence in
the trust fund mechanism. Although PROFONANPE was not able to increase its permanent endowment
fund to the level originally envisioned, the institution has been able to attract considerable funding into
sinking funds with life spans of five to ten years. This change of fund-raising approach was made when it
became clear that the policies of bilateral donors did not permit them to place their contributions into
permanent endowment funds. Nonetheless, the combination of the two types of funds (endowment and
sinking funds) has proven to be an effective tool for channeling resources to protected areas. The
endowment fund has ensured sustainability for the institution and has provided PROFONANPE with the
basic funding and credibility to successfully negotiate long term non-endowment funding. Moreover,
PROFONANPE developed an innovative mechanism allowing them to generate permanent endowment
funds while respecting the donor's restrictions on putting funds directly into this type of financial
-3 -



mechanism. PROFONANPE successfully negotiated agreements whereby the interest earned by the sinking
funds are placed in a permanent endowment. Specifically, PROFONANPE was able to create a permanent
endowment for Macchu Picchu from the interest generated by the funds provided by Finland for a five year
project. To date, this fund stands at US$ 1.6 million. PROFONANPE expects to capitalize an additional
US$2.5 million by using the same strategy with two recently-approved debt for nature swaps with the
Governmrent of Germany.
One important issue regarding the viability of trust funds addressed throughout project design and
implementation was the management of investment risk. The GEF grant and subsequent donations by
bilateral donors were invested in the Peruvian financial markets because at the time the project was
designed, there was a concern that these funds could be viewed as government funds, and thus be
vulnerable to attachment by creditors of the government. While this risk appeared to have decreased with
the 1996 agreement/ issuance of the Brady Bonds, the issue resurfaced when a few creditors recently
purchased Peruvian debt at deep discount and successfully sued the government in a New York court to
pay its full value. While it is likely that PROFONANPE would not be at any risk as the institution is
legally not a government entity, given the vagaries of lawsuits, the current risk will need to be re-evaluated.
A more real and pressing risk however, requiring on-going management, has to do with the steadily
declining performance and stability of emerging capital markets around the world. At this time,
PROFONANPE is fully cognizant of the resulting increased risks to its portfolio, and is currently taking
steps to address this issue. Specifically, the institution is in the process of recruiting an internationally
experienced financial advisor to help them define their investment options, including the diversification of
assets into more stable financial markets. In any case, this process will take some time, because, as is the
case of any long-term investment, many assets cannot be sold quickly without incurring unacceptable
financial losses.
Overall, the experience gained with this Trust Fund project demonstrated the importance of specified
annual spending limits and reinvestment requirements along with defining a process for choosing and
overseeing portfolio managers. The project also demonstrated the importance of having clear portfolio
management guidelines and risk/return parameters, as well as having a financial advisor on a permanent or
retainer basis. In addition, the project demonstrated the advantages of investing in stable capital markets
where investment are more likely to earn consistent returns, and be subjected to lower overall risk. Finally,
the accomplishments of the project indicate that the existence of the Trust Fund played a key role in
facilitating conservation financing, and served as an important mechanism to channel international funding.
The outcome of this objective is rated "satisfactory."
Overall project outcome is rated "satisfactory".
4.2 Outputs by components:
Endowment of PROFONANPE.
Despite the increased risk of investing in an emerging market, the returns of the GEF Trust Fund have been
able to support PROFONANPE's annual operating costs and have provided modest but steady financing
for conservation activities in several protected areas without depleting the endowment capital. More
importantly, the endowment fund provided by the GEF has ensured sustainability for the institution and has
allowed it to successfully attract substantial non-endowment funding.
While PROFONANPE did not reach the goal set at appraisal of raising US$ 40 million in permanent
endowment funds over the 5 years of the project, it has exceeded the projected disbursements to protected
- 4 -



areas. In fact, had the fund reached its endowment target, it would have disbursed approximately US$ 2.93
million over four years. In actuality, PROFONANPE disbursed US$ 6.2 million resulting from combined
endowment and non-endowment resources. A table summarizing the donations negotiated by
PROFONANPE is found below.
PROFONANPE: Summary of Fund Raising Achievements
1995-2000
(US$)
Source               Type of Fund             Date                      Objective                        Amount
and Duration         I           I                                              I                I
Portfolios of Investment
GEF                        Permanent Endowment    May - 95   Seed capital for PROFONANPE, and support for key
In perpetuity      _    _       protected areas.                                     5.223,986
Debt for Nature Swap       Permanent Endowment    May - 95  Natural resource management by local communities,
Canada                          In perpetuity                 training                                                354,920
Debt for Nature Swap           Sinking Fund          Jan - 96   Support for recurrent costs of nine protected areas for
Gerinany                         Ten Years                    ten years                                              6.089,309
Debt for Nature Swap           Sinking Fund         Mar - 96   Support for the management of Machu Picchu
Finland                         Five Years                                                                           6.054,516
Debt for Nature Swap       Permanent Endowment    May - 96  Seed capital for permanent endowment for Machu
Finland                         In perpetuity                  Picchu                                                  100,000
Debt for Nature Swap          Mixed Permanent        Oct - 99   Support for the management of the Bosque de
Germany                         Endowment                      Proteccion Alto Mayo                                  1.987,281
m_____________             10 Years/ln perpetuity    _
Debt for Nature Swap          Mixed Permanent        Oct - 99   Support for the institutional development of the
Germany                         Endowment                      National System of Protected Areas                    1.987,281
10 Years/In perpetuity            I_I
Technical and Financial Assistance
Grant                       Technical Assistance    Feb - 98   Technical Assistance related to the implementation of
Finland                         Two Years                      the Machu Picchu project                              1.000,000
Grant                       Technical Assistance    May - 98  Technical Assistance
FANPE - GTZ               Not Closing Date decided                                                                      54,000
Grant KfW                   Financial Assistance    Sept - 98   Technical Assistance
Gernmany                        Five Years                                                                           4.970,179
Earmarked Funds and Other Donations
Grant                      Vehicles and Equipment    Jan - 95   Start-up costs of PROFONANPE
Embassy of Canada                                                                                                      113,321
Grant                         Earmarked Fund         Jan - 95   Financial support for the implementation of three pilot
FANPE - GTZ                     Two Years                     iprojects.                                               300,000
Grant                         Earmarked Fund        Sept - 95   Project Reclassification of the Tumbes National
McArthur Foundation             Three Years                    Forest as a Reserved Zone.                               80,000
Grant                         Earmarked Fund         Jan - 96   Support for the first fund raising campaign of
McArthur Foundation              One Year                      PROFONANPE                                               50,000
Grant                        Contingency Fund       Mar - 96   Support for the Emergency Fund for Park Guards.
Embassy of Holland        Not Closing Date decided                                                                       6,505
Grant                         Earmarked Fund        Mar - 99   Financial assistance for the institutional
Embassy of Canada                One Year                      communications strategy.                                  4,312
Grant                         Earmarked Fund        Mar - 99   Co-financing of Extemal Independent Evaluation of
Embassy of Holland             Three Months                    PROFONANPE.                                              25,000
Grant                         Earmarked Fund        Mar - 99   Support for the institutional development of
FANPE - GTZ                    Three Months                    PROFONANPE.                                              22,000
Funds Under Negotiation (advance)
Debt for Nature Swap           Sinking Fund          Oct - 99   Support for the establishment as a protected area and
Germany                          Ten Years                    the conservation of the biodiversity of the watershed  4.639,510
of the rivers Morona and Postaza              I
-To5l
133.062,121 1
-5 -



As of December 1999, the total GEF-financed fund had a value of US$ 5.43 million which includes the
original US$ 5.0 million provided by the GEF, plus a net additional of US$ 430,000 in earnings reinvested
under the project's "spending rule". Given the fluctuations in the value of the SDR between the time of
grant approval and disbursement, the actual grant amount disbursed was US$5.22 million. US$5.0 million
was placed into the permanent endowment and the balance of US$220,000 was used to cover the operating
costs of PROFONANPE for the first year of the project. The "spending rule" limited the trust's
expenditures to 5% of the value of the Trust Funds assets for the first three years and a rate not to exceed
5% of the three-year moving average value of the accounts assets subsequently.
In addition, PROFONANPE has raised permanent capital through agreements with two donors whereby the
interest earned by the sinking funds are placed in a permanent endowment. Specifically, PROFONANPE
created a permanent endowment for Macchu Picchu from the interest generated by the funds provided by
Finland. This fund stands at US$ 1.6 million. PROFONANPE expects to capitalize an additional US$ 2.5
million by using the same strategy with two funds recently approved.
The original estimated annual gross return of 10% proved to be unrealistic. During the first four years of
operation, the trust funds investment portfolio produced an average annual return of 6%, partly due to
turmoil in emerging markets all over the world, and in Peru in particular. Nonetheless, the Trust Fund's
accumulated earnings are comparable to other GEF Environmental Trusts. As discussed elsewhere, the
Trust Fund does have a higher investment risk by being invested in Peru's emerging markets. The
resolution of this issue has important implications for the stability and sustainability of the fund.
Management of Selected Protected Areas.
PROFONANPEs endowment income along with the support from the Government of Peru, bilateral
donors and the privatefNGO sector helped finance protected area management programs in 14 areas. The
number of staff working in the parks has more than doubled, while field staff turnover levels have dropped.
Support to IRENA has permitted it to expand revenue-generating programs including user and entrance
fees and to improve the management of its conservation programs within the protected area system.
As it was stated in the project document, the project did not attempt to measure its direct impact on
biodiversity protection, as it would not have been feasible within the time frame and with the resources
available under the project. The reason is that the evaluation of changes in natural systems requires the
extensive compilation of baseline data (such as the inventory of population sizes and distribution of key
species, or extensive GIS data). The collection and monitoring of such data is technically difficult, time
consuming and expensive. Moreover, what can be measured is often hard to interpret both due to inherent
natural fluctuation in ecological processes, as well as the difficulty of determining the counterfactual case,
that is, what might have occurred in the absence of the project. Given the emphasis of the project on
institutional development, this activity would have been beyond the technical scope and financial resources
of the project. Nonetheless, PROFONANPE is broadly regarded as having made a substantial contribution
to the ability of the country to manage its Park System, without which biodiversity conservation would be
adversely affected.
Beyond the life of the project, however, as PROFONANPE develops and matures, the institution will be in
a better position to promote and seek financing for the required biodiversity monitoring. To this end,
PROFONANPE is coordinating with other entities to develop a system-wide approach to measure
biodiversity impact. This work will certainly be a priority for PROFONANPE in the coming years, but in
-6 -



the meantime, PROFONANPE and INRENA indicated that they will continue to focus their efforts on
building and sustaining the basic management infrastructure required for protected area management.
Project Coordinating Unit. The Project Document proposed a lean organizational structure for project
implementation with an average annual budget of US$ 150,000 which was 10% of base costs. Total costs
for project administration over the life of the GEF project amounted to US$ 641,600. PROFONANPE
also received institutional support from other donors totaling US$ 136,130 over the four year
implementation period. From 1996-1999, PROFONANPE implemented activities totaling about US$6.2
million. Total overhead for PROFONANPE amounted to about 12.5% of the total operating budget. This
percentage of overhead expenses compares very favorably with other small biodiversity trust funds. The
results of this project point to the effectiveness of the size and structure of the PROFONANPE operation.
PROFONANPE operates on the basis of Board approved annual work programs which are prepared based
on expected budgets from: (i) income from the GEF seed funds; and (ii) support from other donors.
PROFONANPE disbursed 34% of its budget programmed for 1996, 69% for 1997, 99% for 1998 and
78% for 1999. Over the four year period of project implementation, PROFONANPE has disbursed 100%
of the budgeted amount deriving from the income generated by the GEF seed funds.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4..5 Institutional development impact:
Overall Achievement. The project created a mechanism to channel debt donations for sustainable
conservation financing via the creation of PROFONANPE (the institution) and FONANPE (the Trust
Fund). PROFONANPE has successfully utilized the Trust Fund to attract international donors and debt
swaps, and the existence of these mechanisms encouraged bilateral donor financial support that probably
would not have occurred otherwise.
The project also helped develop the capacity of PROFONANPE to better manage its financial assets, and
helped establish the process to select investment portfolio managers, and monitor their performance.
PROFONANPE is a non-governmental entity comprised of a Board of Directors, staff, and a Technical
Committee. Currently, the Board is comprised of three representatives from the government (one
representative from the Ministry of Agriculture, one from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and one
from the Office of the President of the Ministerial Council) three NGO representatives elected by the
Peruvian Environmental Network, and one representative of the donor agencies (at present from the GTZ).
The 1992 Legislative Decree establishing PROFONANPE stipulated that all three representatives to the
Board be officials from the Ministry of Agriculture. This was contrary to the agreements reached with the
Bank's project preparation team, which recognized the importance of having a more diverse Board in order
to broaden the base of support, to enhance the technical expertise and to reflect the international nature and
importance of PROFONANPEs goals. At the time of project negotiations, the Government committed
itself to making the desired change in Board membership. However, this proved to be very difficult to do,
as this change would require a cumbersome and time consuming Parliamentary approval process. In
-7-



recognition of the importance of strengthening the Board by including representatives from other ministries,
in 1998 the Minister of Agriculture invited the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Office of the
President of the Ministerial Council to sit on the Board on its behalf. This was an elegant solution to the
legal problem of changing the original Decree. While the current Board membership is more adequate to
PROFONANPE's needs, the ICR team, as well as the Independent External Evaluation Team ( A. Putney,
L. Rosenzweig and V. Pulido, Evaluacion Externa Independiente de PROFONANPE , April 2000),
concluded that for PROFONANPE to continue to grow and operate effectively, it will require a larger
Board, with broader representation.
The Technical Committee (TC) is composed of specialists in biodiversity and, to a limited degree, finance.
The function of the TC, as envisioned during project preparation was to provide technical advice and
provide evaluation support, as well as help to define the institution's annual plan, identify potential projects
and select executors. In practice, the TC has not been fully effective in providing input into the Park
System planning cycle and lacks sufficient expertise in reviewing and deciding on investment issues.
On balance, the project had a positive impact of the development of Peru's institutional framework for
protected area management. The internal design of PROFONANPE has been effective in achieving the
goals identified during project preparation. The institution has proven to be an effective manager of both
its human and financial resources. Its staff has demonstrated strong leadership and made a positive
contribution to the protection of Peru's biodiversity. Currently, PROFONANPE employs 8 professionals
who work at the organizations headquarters in Lima.
ENRENA. The project has had an undeniable impact on INRENA's capacity to deliver programs to the
protected areas. The number of park personnel has grown from 60 in 1991 to 278 in 1999 working in 37
areas. Currently, about 40% of these were employed with budget support from PROFONANPE.
Financial support from PROFONANPE has bolstered INRENA during difficult periods. According to the
Director of the Peruvian Park Service, without PROFONANPE's financial support at critical moments, the
Park Service would have had serious difficulties in sustaining their programs.
The project's contribution to 1NRENA goes beyond the merely financial. Thanks in part to
PROFONANPE's feedback, INRENA took steps to improve its financial management and tracking
systems. For example, for the first two years that PROFONANPE provided support for the salaries of
park personnel, PROFONANPE made payments directly to the staff, and maintained a direct contractual
relationship with the employees. This arrangement was put in place because INRENA did not have the
capacity to administer this process. Under PROFONANPE's responsibility, park staff received their salary
promptly and every month, for the first time in many years. This had a highly positive impact on staff
morale. With support from the GTZ and PROFONANPE, 1NRENA improved their computerized systems
and by 1999, INRENA was able to re-assume these functions. Currently PROFONANPE transfers the
funds to INRENA under a Memoranda of Understanding clearly outlining the respective responsibilities
and performance standards for the timely transfer of funds to the field. In addition, PROFONANPE has
provided technical assistance to insure high quality annual work plans. Through the efforts of
PROFONANPE staff, an important forum has been created to encourage the discussion of priorities for
protected area planning and management.
As a result of negotiations with PROFONANPE, INRENA also instituted policies to reduce the frequency
of tunover of field staff, thereby providing more continuity to park management programs. Prior to
PROFONANPE's financing, INRENA had a policy of hiring park personnel only under three-month
contracts. With PROFONANPE's financial support, staff are now given one year contracts, renewable on
- 8 -



the basis of satisfactory job performance. In turn, the greater stability of staff allowed GTZ to provide
training to park personnel, which it was not willing to provide to staff on short-term contracts.
All of the above support has translated into improved capacity of INRENA to play a more active role in
managing the protected areas.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Fac~tors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Liens on Peruvian Debt
At the time the project was prepared, the proceeds of the GEF grant could not be invested outside of Peru
in more developed financial markets due to the potential risk of attachment of these funds by creditors of
the Government of Peru, prior to the debt renegotiation and issuance of Peru's Brady Bonds. This
circumstance made the Trust Fund one of the few GEF Environmental Funds invested in an emerging
market economy. At the time of ICR preparation, the potential risk of attachment of funds placed in
off-shore markets continues to be a factor outside the control of government and PROFONANPE which
will undoubtedly affect the investment options for the foreseeable future. Even if the risk of attachment
was not a factor, it is possible that the Government would be reluctant to agree to move the funds overseas,
based on the experience of the Private Pension Funds which are fully invested in Peru's financial market as
the government is reluctant to invest abroad while the country is in the midst of an economic recession.
Market Volatility and Liquidity
Because the Trust Fund portfolio had to be invested in Peru's emerging securities markets, the portfolio's
annual return varied considerably. Annual returns have varied from a high of 17.7 % in 1996 to a low of-
5.4% in 1998. The return in 1999 is estimated at about 3%. In addition, Peru's financial markets are
limited by relatively low trading volume and market illiquidity. That makes it more difficult to buy or sell
investmnent assets and thus maximize the value of the investment portfolio.
Currently, PROFONANPE's portfolio includes a significant investment (19%) in the bonds of a company
that is experiencing financial difficulties. The company is being restructured which may improve the
perforTnance of the portfolio, as the bonds have been steadily regaining value over the past few months.
PROFONANPE is fully aware of the increased risks of investing its portfolio in an emerging market. The
declining performance and lack of stability of emerging capital markets worldwide, however, requires a
serious assessment of the advisability of moving funds offshore. PROFONANPE is currently taking steps
to evaluate its options, and is in the process of recruiting an advisor to help them make the transfer in a
financially sound manner. In any case, the transfer of the funds abroad will take some time, because, as is
the case of any long-term investment, many assets cannot be sold quickly without incurring unacceptable
financial losses.
Scarcity of High Quality Asset Managers and Underdeveloped Investment Management Practices
The problem of Peru's riskier capital markets is compounded by the scarcity of professional asset
management firms with extensive track records, and a relatively weak regulatory framework. Although
common investment practices adhered to by US fimns are in general followed by Peruvian firms, some
-9-



specific cases show lack of high quality practices. Moreover, at least initially, portfolio management
investment contracts and reports lacked performance clauses and critical financial data. In an instance of
questionable practices, corporate bonds were issued and sold to PROFONANPE by the same bank that
wrote the corporate restructuring agreement. That bank is representing both bank lenders and bondholders
in the repayment negotiations. The portfolio manager retained these bonds in PROFONANPE's
conservatively managed portfolio despite a request by PROFONANPE that they be sold. In response to
this inadequate perfornance, PROFONANPE took the decision in 1999 to remove the portfolio from the
poorly performing bank and signed a contract with a new asset manager. Since then, new and more
stringent investment guidelines were put in place and the performance of the portfolio has improved
significantly.
S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Debt for Nature Swaps
The Peruvian government has supported and facilitated six debt swaps to support the protected areas of
Peru. Peru has done an exceptional job in obtaining and negotiating bilateral donations and leveraging
additional funds for biodiversity. About US$ 27 million in addition to the GEF Trust is now available for
conservation activities.
Annual Budget Allocation to Protected Area Management
The Peruvian government's own financial contributions to the protected areas are rising, from around 1.9
million soles in 1996 to about 3.5 million in 1999 or from about US$ 750,000 to US$ 1,000,000. The
National Treasury has been more reliable in its disbursements to the Park Service, and the government has
given the Park Service direct access to the revenues earned in the areas. In total, the Park Service has a far
larger budget than ever before.
Tax Exemption Status
At negotiations, the GOP agreed to accord tax exempt status to PROFONANPE. At the time of the ICR,
the approval by the GOP had still not been obtained. All parties appear to share some responsibility for the
delay. The completion of the legal procedures have been complicated by PROFONANPE's special legal
status. Originally, Bank supervision missions pressed for a tax exemption covering the whole organization
which it was felt would help attract other donations. Apparently, the tax exemptions can be negotiated only
on a case by case or donation by donation basis. While it will be important to secure the tax exempt status,
it has not hampered PROFONANPEs operations to date, as no taxes have been imposed on the interest
earnings of the fund, given Peru's current tax holiday on income-interest earnings. The only taxes for
which the institution has been liable for are national sales taxes, and given that PROFONANPE has used
the income for the GEF donation to finance mainly salaries and operating costs, the tax implications have
been negligible.
INRENA Personnel Management
From 1995 to 1998, INRENA had a policy which included the frequent rotation and change of field staff,
some of whom were kept perpetually on short-term contracts. The personnel paid with PROFONANPE
funds are required to have annual contracts and the frequency of site rotation has dropped substantially.
These changes of policy are considered to be positive and should over the medium to long-term improve
-10-



program delivery and overall Parks management.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Financial Management of Trust Fund
The financial management of the Trust Fund Portfolio has greatly improved over the project period,
although there continues to be issues with the portfolio management and asset quality due to the investment
in an emerging market. PROFONANPE has had to create, negotiate and monitor the Trusts investment
contracts, portfolio management mechanisms and reporting formats, which would normally already be
developed by a professional asset manager. PROFONANPE has followed a competitive selection process
to select its asset managers, but in one instance it had to change managers due to poor performance. While
until this year the GEF portfolio was one of the best managed accounts, its performance has suffered over
the past year from deterioration in both the quality of the service provided by the portfolio manager and the
poor investment market. The investments provided by other donors have experienced a variety of issues
with investment quality, risk diversification, portfolio management performance and acceptable investment
contracts, but over the life of the project PROFONANPE has worked continuously to resolve these
problems.
PROFONANPE has been hampered at times by insufficient internal institutionalized financial expertise,
such as could be provided by having private, financial sector representation on its Board of Directors.
Throughout the life of the project, Bank supervision missions have included a financial specialist that has
reviewed the investment portfolio, not only for the GEF funds, but for all of PROFONANPEs assets. The
missions recommended repeatedly that PROFONANPE enhance its ability to supervise and monitor the
financial performance of its investment managers. In the early years, PROFONANPE relied on advisors
who provided services on a pro bono basis for specific issues. This, however, was not deemed sufficient,
and for the past two years, PROFONANPE has hired a part time advisor to assist them with this task.
Moreover, with the addition to the Board of Directors of a representative from the Ministry of Finance, the
institution's capacity in this areas was substantially strengthened. In the future, particularly with the
cessation of Bank's supervision and technical support, it will be essential that PROFONANPE continues to
receive sound investment advice on a regular basis.
Board Meeting Attendance
At times, due to lack of attendance, mainly by government representatives, it has been difficult to reach a
quorum at PROFONANPE's Board of Directors meetings. This has had some impact on operations, but is
not considered to be a significant factor in overall project performance. However, over the long-term this
lack of participation could affect the institutions credibility and hamper its growth and development. This
problem however, could be alleviated by increasing the number of members, and broadening the
composition of the Board as discussed earlier. In addition, similar Boards are effectively using technology
such as teleconferencing to facilitate meeting participation.
The Decision Making Process
Decision-making related to activity approval has at times been difficult due to the fact that some Board
members have institutional interests. This potential and eventual conflict of interest was analyzed by the
Independent External Evaluation Team. That Team made a series of recommendations to help address this
issue. These include increasing the size of the Board of Directors, to both add depth of expertise and
- 1 1 -



broaden representation to other sectors. The Independent External Evaluation team also recommended that
formal procedures be in place to allow the Board to recluse a representative for any discussion or decision
where a conflict of interest may occur.
Contrary to expectations at the time of project design, the Technical Committee rarely provides input into
the decision process. The Independent External Evaluation team has proposed a series of measures to
improve the decision making process including the establishment of technical subcommittees in finance,
planning to be presided over by a Board member. The Bank's supervision team also had recommended that
electronic mail be used more actively to keep the TC members informed of PROFONANPEs activities and
to solicit input and guidance.
Day to Day Operations
PROFONANPE's hiring and staff management practices are considered satisfactory. Personnel policies
and benefits are in place, staff morale is good, and performance standards are clear. The current staff of
PROFONANPE is highly qualified and dedicated, and has done an excellent job in meeting the institution's
obligations.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project costs were in line with original expectations. The GEF's contribution of US5.2 million was
disbursed in full in a single tranche after project effectiveness. The Trust Fund generated an average of 6%
in investment returns per year which was below the 10% estimated at appraisal. Out of the GEF-financed
fund, a total amount of US$ 1,007, 128 was disbursed for conservation related activities during the life of
the project. Approximately US$ 200,000 was plowed back into investment capital.
Over the life of the project, investment income totaling US$ 641,605 was used to cover administrative costs
of PROFONANPE. This amounted to about 10 % of base costs which was in line with estimates at
appraisal. With the no-objection of the Bank, the total amount of investment income spent on
administration in 1998 and 1999 was higher than estimated at appraisal. This increase was fully justified
given the increase of responsibilities and workload of PROFONANPE resulting from the much larger
amount of funds being administered by the institution.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
PROFONANPE as an institution appears to be on sound footing. It has qualified staff in place, and has
developed administrative procedures that allow it to function in an efficient manner. Its track record has
given it credibility with bilateral donors as demonstrated by their continued financial support.
PROFONANPE has also achieved strong credibility with the Government, as evidenced by their strong
working relationship with the Ministry of Finance, which has facilitated and endorsed PROFONANPE's
efforts in their international negotiations. 1NRENA's ability to carry out its functions is directly, although
not exclusively, linked with availability of financial resources. In the past, Peru's precarious fiscal
situation meant that the Government was unable to allocate its scarce resources to protected areas. The
steady and predictable stream of funding for protected areas channeled by PROFONANPE has allowed
INRENA to carry out long-term planning and has had a positive impact on staff morale, job performance,
and tenure. As a result, as long as funding continues to be available, it is likely that the gains in terms of
- 12 -



institutional capacity will be sustained.
The mechanisms are in place to ensure project financial sustainability as well. Interest income from the
investment fund (assuming returns whose average rate is comparable to the previous period) are adequate
to cover the administrative costs of PROFONANPE, provide a small contribution to programs directed at
protected area management and reinvest a minimum level of earnings in Trust Fund capital. Proceeds from
debt-for nature swaps, sinking funds and other project related support are being channeled directly to cover
costs of park management programs. To date, the agreements signed between the GOP and the donors will
provide funding on an annual basis sufficient to ensure basic management of approximately 14 protected
areas for the next eight years.
The primary financial risks to the long-term sustainability of the project stem from the volatility of
investing in an emerging market. In particular, the Trust Fund contains a bond that makes up 19% of the
fixed income portfolio. This bond is below investment grade and has an unclear market value. An
estimation of a potential loss from this asset would potentially reduce the current total Fund balance by 6%,
but will not reduce the initial Trust capital amount. In the unlikely event that this loss has to be realized it
would mean a relatively small 1.9% reduction in the operating revenue for the next year. This issue should
be closely monitored until PROFONANPE is able to move some of it assets to a more stable investment
environment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Continued vigilance will be needed on the part of PROFONANPE to insure the long term financial
sustainability of the trust fund. As PROFONANPE continues to attract investment accounts and
endowment funds, monitoring of portfolio performance is extremely important. PROFONANPE needs to
evaluate whether the risk of attachment of funds offshore continues to be an issue. PROFONANPE needs
to carry out a through evaluation of the advantages of moving all or part of its financial assets offshore, as
the financial risk would likely diminish by moving its assets to more secure investmnent markets. The Trust
Fund would also benefit from the more consistent use of sound financial expertise.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification and preparation was rated "satisfactory". During
preparation the Bank correctly identified the fundamental need to establish a viable and strong institutional
framework. The Bank correctly appraised the lack of capacity in the General Direction of Parks and chose
to create a separate fund to capture international donations and debt-swaps. The decision to provide the
US$ 5.0 million as an endowment provided PROFONANPE with the necessary resources to contract staff
and establish its institutional credibility. The overly optimistic target of reaching an endowment of US$ 40
million was set at the request of PROFONANPE, on the grounds that this target would provide more
leverage to the institution in securing the support of the Government in the relevant negotiations with
bilateral donors on debt-for-nature agreements. At the time, it had not been determined that donors would
be constrained in their ability to contribute to endowment funds. During project preparation, the Bank
assisted the Government in developing investment guidelines tailored to the riskier investment climate of the
Peruvian emerging market. During supervision, these guidelines were refined in response to the changes in
the financial market, and the investment conditions worldwide.
7.2 Supervision:
- 13 -



Bank performance during supervision was rated "highly satisfactory". Supervision missions benefited
from a good skill mix of specialists including an institutional development expert and an investment
professional. Their knowledge and recommendations were extremely valuable in obtaining adjustments to
project design during project implementation. For example, the investment professional assisted
PROFONANPE in developing criteria for evaluating the performance of the portfolio managers and in
assessing the level of risk of the various portfolio options.
The task team maintained excellent relations with bilateral donors and the NGO community. These efforts
played an important role in obtaining additional support through debt swaps and "sinking funds" mentioned
earlier. Moreover, the Bank's and GEF involvement lent credibility to the effort.
Bank supervision also played a role in obtaining GOP approval to change the composition of the
PROFONANPE Board to include a broader governmental representation and expertise, which was believed
to be a key element for the long-term success of the institution.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was rated "satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Grantee performance during preparation was rated "satisfactory". The Government dedicated all needed
effort to prepare the project. Moreover, the Government was highly receptive to the constructive input and
participation of half a dozen Peruvian NGO's at all stages of project design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Peruvian Govermment was extremely supportive of the project and its objectives. In particular,
the Ministry of Finance played an essential role in assisting PROFONAPE in its fimdraising efforts. The
Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for INRENA and the Protected Areas Department, was also highly
supportive of the project. One shortfall was their inconsistent participation at PROFONANPE's Board
meetings refereed to earlier. This is partially attributable to having nominated a representative whose
extensive and somewhat unrelated responsibilities prevented him from devoting the needed time. Upon
voluntarily nominating two other Ministries to the Board, PROFONANPE was substantially strengthened.
INRENA and the Parks Department were both actively involved in the project. The Director of JNRENA
serves as President of the Board, and as such has played a key role throughout project implementation.
While at times the relationship between INRENA and PROFONANPE was strained, at all times, both
institutions worked together to resolve difficulties. To the credit to both INRENA and PROFONANPE,
both institutions successfully resolved many difficult issues throughout project implementation. As a
result, the Protected Areas System has been strengthened significantly by having a strong well working
institution supporting the long term financing of biodiversity conservation.
A pending issue is the approval of the request to grant to PROFONANPE tax exempt status, which was
envisioned at the time the project was approved. While the approval process is complex and time
consuming, it can be said that the Govermment has not been fully effective in facilitating the process.
Nonetheless, by all indications, once the legal and administrative formalities have been resolved, the
approval will be forthcoming.
-14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
PROFONANPEs performance with procurement, disbursement, auditing and progress reporting was rated
"satisfactory". Only during the first year of the project did PROFONANPE have difficulty preparing
their annual work plan. With added experience with the process, the annual work programs were
substantially improved each subsequent year and were produced in a timely manner.
PROFONANPE's cooperation with Bank missions was exemplary. Meetings in Lima and site visits were
well coordinated and PROFONANPE staff assisted the Bank with its work. PROFONANPE management
of its financial and human resources during the life of the project was "highly satisfactory". Their
success in fund raising noted earlier was clearly one of the most positive elements of the project and will
contribute to the long-term sustainability of their conservation programs.
At this time, PROFONANPE is in the process of preparing a proposal to the GEF and other donors, to
establish a fund specifically aimed at increasing participation in protected area management and
conservation by civil society. This fund would strongly complement and enhance the achievements to date.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Grantee was rated "satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
The mixed public/private Board of the trust fund can be an important platform for discussion and planning
among the various actors, especially in cases where there are few forums where such discussions can take
place. Moreover, the Board should be large enough to allow for a variety of expertise, perspectives,
constituents, and to cushion the impact of any one member not being available to participate at a given
time.
PROFONANPE's experience tends to indicate that Trust Fund Board representation should be reflective of
personal capacity rather than as representatives of specific institutions, in so far as that's possible.
Moreover, issues of conflict of interest must be analyzed in great detail, and procedures should be in place
to manage potential problems.
It has been very difficult to attract permanent endowment funds. Non-permanent funding such as
debt-for-nature swaps and "sinking funds" have been easier to obtain.
If the option is available, GEF Trust Funds that are meant to provide long-term permanent financing should
be invested in larger, more developed markets, in order to minimize investment risk.
The capacity of the implementing agency to choose and monitor the investment managers and the risk in
their portfolios is critical to the long-term sustainability and performance of the Trust Fund. Specifically,
the Board of Directors should include individuals with private sector financial management/investment
expertise. Moreover, arrangements should be in place to guarantee strong and consistent supervision of the
performance of the investment managers. This may include formalized financial management expertise
through paid advisors, as well as through ensuring that one of more Board members have the needed
financial skills to give guidance to the organization.
- 15-



Portfolio manager investment contracts need to include clear guidelines for investment risk, asset quality
and portfolio diversity. In addition, the investment contracts must include performance clauses so that the
owner of the assets can move the funds if necessary in the event of portfolio mismanagement.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PROFONANPE agrees with the contents of the ICR prepared by the World Bank. As a complement to the
information included in this document, PROFONANPE would like to comment on the following topics.
Concerning item 4.1 (ii) "Improve INRENA 's capacity to Protect and Manage Peru's Protected Areas", it
should be mentioned that although it is true that in 1991 the Government assigned 60 employees to perform
field duties in the protected areas, it is also important to mention that during that time civil society
institutions were already supporting the basic aspects of management in various protected areas, including
an indeterminate number of parkguards. At present, other than INRENA and PROFONANPE funds, the
protected areas get substantial support from various sources both from government and from international
cooperation through the regional governments and non governmental organizations, respectively.
Concerning item 5.3 "The Decision Making Process", and more specifically as concerns the operations of
the Technical Committee, it should be mentioned that in February 2000, PROFONANPE's Directive
Council adopted a series of decisions to restructure the operations of said Committee and thus adopt the
recommendations issued by both the World Bank and the Independent External Evaluation. For now, and
on an experimental basis, it has been decided to establish three specialized subcommittees (for the financial,
institutional planning, and protected areas management fields) chaired each by a member of the Directive
Council. At present, the Financial Sub-Committee is fully operational.
Lastly, concerning Annex 1, "Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix", and specifically regarding
the caption reading "The disbursment offunds for the various activities and projects is made in a timely
basis for 3 years in a roW', it is appropriate to mention that the 1999 level of disbursement (78%) results
from difficulties arising within the Machu Picchu Program and which cannot be attributed to either
PROFONANPE or INRENA. Consequently, in that same year, the level of fund execution for all other
operations, including those receiving financing from the GEF Trust Fund, effectively reached 96%.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This project was designed prior to the adoption by the Bank of the Log Frame Evaluation methodology.
The project design did specify a project monitoring strategy consisting of two types of evaluation: (i) the
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the GEF project; and (ii) the evaluation of how trust
funds contribute to biodiversity. For both of these evaluations, benchmarks were established. These
benchmarks were monitored during project supervision missions.
(i) Evaluation of Project Implementation. Three broad categories of benchmarks were identified during
project preparation. These included: (i) Institutional Capacity; (ii) Financial Effectiveness; and (iii)
Adequacy of Legal Framework.
Benchmarks
Indicator                                                      Performance
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
The Board of Directors will meet twice each year and has carried out its Attained
responsibilities as established in PROFONANPE by-laws for three years
in a row.
The project coordinating unit is functioning and staffed with qualified Attained
professionals.
The Technical Committee is functioning and has provided relevant  Partially attained. The Technical Committee participated in the
technical input to the Board of Directors, including conducting an annual preparation of the 1999 work plan and in the Round Table for the
evaluation of the asset manager of the fund for 3 years in a row.  Identification of Medium Term Strategies.
The selection of activities and projects is made in accordance with the    Attained. However, only a few activities have implemented by
Board's project eligibility and selection criteria, and following the  non-governmental entities.
agreed-upon participative and consultative process for three years in a
row.
Satisfactory annual work programs are submitted to the Bank for review Attained for 3 consecutive years.
in a timely manner for three years in a row. A satisfactory work program
would contain a clear statement of objectives and the proposed activities
would be consistent with these objectives.
The disbursement of funds for the various activities and projects is made  Attained. According to PROFONANPE, they disbursed 34% in 1996,
in atimely and efficient manner for three years in a row         690/a in 1997,99% in 1998 and 78% in 1999..
Satisfactory annual progress reports are submitted by the Board to the    Attained.
Bank in a timely basis for 3 years in a row.
The fund has a clear written strategy for raising additional funds and is   Attained.
actively pursuing firther donations.
Administrative costs are kept within agreed-upon limits, not exceeding a Administrative costs in some years exceeded original estimates but these
5% increase per year.                                            overruns were justified and received a "no objection" from the Bank.
Annual audits show satisfactory performance in funding approved work Attained.
programs and competent record-keeping for three years in a row.
Procurement is made m accordance to Bank-approved procedures for    Attained.
three years in a row.
FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS
Adherence to investrent guidelines for three years in a row.     Attained.
Adherence to disbursement guidelines, based on the "spending rule" for  The "spending rule' was exceeded with "no objection'
three years in a row.                                            from the Bank.
ADEQUACY OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK
All necessary legislation and other arrangements are in place to assure    Partially attained. While legal arrangements for the establishment of the
effective functioning of the fund, induding protection from attachment   fund are in place, to date the legal statutes have not been modified and the
and taxation.                                                    tax exemption has not been granted .
- 17 -



(ii) Evaluation of the Trust Fund as a Mechanism for Financins! Biodiversity Conservation.
The impact of the trust fund will ultimately be measured by what is "bought" in termns of biodiversity
protection. Such an evaluation, however, would not be feasible within the time frane of the GEF project;
the evaluation of changes in natural systems takes decades and requires the extensive inventoxy of key
species to obtain data on population sizes and distribution. The collection of such data is technically
difficult, time consuming, and expensive. Moreover, what can be measured is often hard to interpret both
due to inherent natural fluctuation in ecological processes as well as the difficulty of determining the
counterfactual case, that is, what might have occurred in the absence of the project. For these reasons,
project design and implementation are used as proxies for impact.
The success of the trust fund will depend on a series of factors, some of which are under the control of the
project implementors and some of which are not. For example, the trust fund will require favorable market
conditions to generate adequate investment returns, as well as successful fund raising yet both will depend
largely on outside forces. Similarly, the effectiveness of conservation measures adopted will depend on the
quality of their design as well as on national policies and socio-economic circumstances.
Taking these factors into consideration, the achievement of the benchmarks below will indicate the success
of the trust fund as a mechanism for financing biodiversity conservation.
Fund Raising Success
3 The fund has reached a minimum capital level of $40 million dollars (the goal is to reach this
capitalization level within five years from the date of the grant).
Financial Effectiveness
3 The investments are providing reliable and adequate returns. This entails a minimum of 10% annual
return of the investment so as to cover program needs (5%); provide annual reinvestment to maintain
real value of seed capital; and afford a capital reserve to offset low-yield years.
Government Committment
* The government is committed to providing long-term financing for protected areas, as evidenced by their
active participation in the activities of the Board of Directors of PROFONANPE and by supporting its
fund raising efforts by facilitating debt-for-nature transactions and other contributions. Commitment is
also reflected by the goverrment's continued funding for the protected areas at the current level of budget
allocation (in real terrns), thus ensuring that the GEF funding is truly additional.
Biodiversity Impact
*   The stable financing provided by the trust fund ensures that the protected areas receive adequate
management, which in the long run results in decreased park encroachment, deforestation, poaching and
biodiversity loss. The impact of the project on the protected areas will be evaluated against the baseline
information collected during project preparation and summarized in the background paper on each of the
selected areas titled: "Informe sobre las Areas Protegidas Seleccionadas para Apoyo por el GEF."
Moreover, the impact of the project will also be evaluated as a function of how it has contributed
towards the goals established in the management plan or operating plan of each protected area.
- 18 -



Social Impact
*   The trust fund's decision-making processes have fostered local and NGO participation in the
management of the protected areas, as evidenced by their active involvement in decisions about the
allocation of resources in each protected area and their understanding and commitment to the goals of
park management.
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million uivalent
Endowment of PROFONANPE                                     5.00              5.20            104
Management of Selected Protected Areas                      0.71              0.71            100
Project Coordinating Unit                                   0.65              0.64            100
Total Baseline Cost                                         6.36              6.55
Total Project Costs                   6.36              6.55
Total Financing Required                    6.36             6.55
US$200,000 additional were provided due to the fluctuation on SDR exchange rate. These funds were used
for financing the operations of PROFONANPE during the first year of project implementaion.
Proect Financin  by Com onent in US$ million e uivalent
Endowment of            5.00      0.00      0.00      5.20      0.00      0.00    104.0   0.0    0.0
PROFONANPE
Management of Selected  0.71      0.00      0.00      0.71      0.00      0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
Protected Areas
Project Coordinating Unit   0.65  0.00      0.00      0.64      0.00      0.00    98.5   0.0    0.0
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/92                          4   Task Manager, Lawyer,                 S                 S
consultants (2)
10/93                         3   Task Manager, consultants (2)        S                  S
Appraisal/Negotiation
4   Task Manager, Lawyers (2),           S                 S
Financial Management
Spec.
1/95                          4   Task Manager, Lawyers (2),           S                  S
Disbusement Officers (2)
Supervision
6/96                          4  Task Manager, Trust Funds              S                 S
Advisor, Finance Specialist,
Institutional Specialist
12/96                         3  Task Manager, Finance                 S                  S
Specialist, Institutional Specialist
8/97                          2  Task Manager, Organizational           S                 S
Development Specialist
11/97                         1  Finance Specialist                    S                  S
4/98                          2  Task Manager, Organizational           S                 S
Development Specialist
12/98                         4  Task Manager, Organizational          S                  S
Development Specialist,Finance
Specialist, Ecologist
5/99                          2  Task Manager, Organizational           S                 S
Development Specialist
ICR
12/99                         4   Team Leader, ICR                     S                  S
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, Fund Investment
Specialist
- 22 -



(b) Staff:
[    Stage of Proje Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
._______ _  No. Staffweeks          USS (OOO)
Identification/Preparation              70.0                       155.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   20.5                        61.4
Supervision                             69.8                      254.8
ICR                                      9.4                       40.0
Total                                  169.7                     512.00
We are unable to complete this table due to problems with the FACT data base.
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
XGender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
D Other (Please specify)
2 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                   O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Testing of viability of trust funds as mechanisms
for providing long-term and sustainable funding
for national parks management and biodiversity
conservation
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
I Lending                                           OHS OS  OU   OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU   OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
X Preparation                                       OHS Os   O u  O HU
F Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
S Implementation agency performance                 OHS O s  0 U  0 HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. GEF Project Document
2. Aide Memoires
3. Grantees Final Project Evaluation Report
4. Independent External Evaluation
5. PROFONANPE's Annual Work Plans (1996-2000)
6. PROFONANPE's Status Reports
-26-



Annex 8. PROFONANPE Project Completion Report
PERU
FONDO NACIONAL PARA AREAS NATURALES
PROTEGIDAS POR EL ESTADO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preparado por PROFONANPE
Lima, Enero de 2000
FONDO NACIONAL PARA AREAS NATURALES
PROTEGIDAS POR EL ESTADO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
-27 -



CONTENIDO
I. INTRODUCCION.
HI. EVALUACION DEL DISENO, OBJETIVOS Y EXPERIENCIA
OPERATIVA.
m. DESEMPEfNO DEL PROFONANPE DURANTE LA EJECUCION DEL
PROYECTO.
IV. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO DURANTE LA EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO.
V. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS.
VI. RECOMENDACIONES PARA LA OPERACION FUTURA.
Anexo 1: Total de Fondos Captados por Modalidad de Administraci6n, 1994 - 1999
Anexo2: Actividades Apoyadas por PROFONANPE, 1995 - 1999
-28 -



PERU: FONDO NACIONAL PARA AREAS NATURALES PROTEGIDAS POR EL ESTADO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCCION
Este reporte ha sido preparado por el Fondo Nacional para Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado
(PROFONANPE) de acuerdo a los Lineamientos para la Preparaci6n de Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) del Banco Mundial de fecha 30 de Junio de 1999. Su estructura sigue el formato
sugerido, el cual incluye: (i) una evaluaci6n del diseflo al proyecto, sus objetivos, ejecuci6n y
experiencia operativa; (ii) una evaluaci6n del desempefno de PROFONANPE; (iii) una evaluaci6n del
desempeilo del Banco Mundial y (iv) un conjunto de recomendaciones para la operaci6n futura del
proyecto.
El reporte toma en consideraci6n las recomendaciones hechas por las misiones regulares de
supervisi6n Ilevadas a cabo por el Banco durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto. Se ha dado un
enfasis especial a las recomendaciones incluidas en el reporte de la Misi6n de Evaluaci6n de Medio
Termnino y la Ayuda Memoria de la Misi6n de Cierre. Esta ultimna Misi6n visit6 el Peru entre el 6 y el
17 de Diciembre de 1999. Las conclusiones y recomendaciones de las misiones regulares de
supervisi6n y de la Misi6n de Evaluaci6n de Medio Term ino fueron acordadas con el beneficiario y
por ende reflejan las percepciones del mismo durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Los indicadores de
desempefno acordados durante el proceso de formulaci6n del proyecto han sido utilizados para evaluar
el resultado de la ejecuci6n del mismo.
II. EVALUACION DEL DISENO, OBJETIVOS, EJECUCION Y EXPERIENCIA OPERATIVA.
Tomando en cuenta el panorama econ6mico general del Perui durante el periodo de formulaci6n del
proyecto y la situaci6n de debilidad institucional en el tema de la gesti6n de las areas protegidas y la
biodiversidad en general, la idea de establecer un fondo nacional para apoyar las acciones de los
actores puiblicos y privados en este tema, result6 apropiada y uitil. Los objetivos generales del
proyecto, especialmente el referido a la creaci6n de un fondo fiduciario, deben ser analizados en esta
perspectiva.
Los elementos principales del disefio del proyecto, tales como los arreglos institucionales, el spending
rule y el tipo de proyectos a fmanciar fueron evolucionando durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del
proyecto y requeriran algunos ajustes sugeridos ma.s abajo.
Los cuatro objetivos del proyecto fueron:
(i) Proveer una fuente estable y de largo plazo para el financiamiento de la conservaci6n de la
biodiversidad del Peru a travis del establecimiento de un fondo de fideicomiso: Entre 1993 y
1999 PROFONANPE provey6 apoyo financiero por un monto aproximado de US$ 5.4 millones (US$
300,000 entre 1993 y 1995, US$ 402,327 en 1996, US$ 1.5 millones en 1997, US$ 2.1 millones en
1998 y US$ 1.1 millones hasta octubre de 1999), distribuidos entre un total de quince ireas
protegidas, las cuales representan aproximadamente el 62% del total de la superficie del SINANPE.
Un total de diez areas protegidas recibieron financiamiento estable durante los uiltimos cuatro aflos,
proporcionando las herramientas que han permitido mejorar la  capacidad de gesti6n e incluso
permitiendo la atracci6n de fondos adicionales provenientes de la cooperaci6n  intemacional. La
-29 -



infraestructura y equipamiento basico de las Areas apoyadas ha mejorado, permitiendo un mayor
control sobre el estado de conservaci6n de los recursos presentes en las mismas. A partir del aflo 2000
y por 5 afios, se ha asegurado un amplio programa de inversiones en 6 areas protegidas con apoyo de
KfW.
Algunas de las actividades apoyadas por PROFONANPE durante el periodo referido fueron: (i)
apoyo fmanciero para cubrir costos recurrentes en 10 Areas protegidas, (ii) saneamiento fisico-legal e
inscripci6n de areas protegidas; (iii) construcci6n de la vivienda de guardaparques y puestos de
control y conclusiones del Plan Maestro del Santuario Hist6rico de Machu Picchu; (iv) elaboraci6n de
estudios de linea de base para el desarrollo del Plan Maestro del Parque Nacional Rio Abiseo y (v)
realizaci6n de un estudio de evaluaci6n socioecon6mica y de la biodiversidad de la Zona Reservada de
Tumbes. El Anexo 2 resume las actividades apoyadas por PROFONANPE entre 1995 y 1999 a
traves de los diferentes proyectos financiados.
(ii) Apoyar el fortalecimiento de la capacidad del Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales
(INRENA) para proteger y administrar las areas protegidas del Peru: El apoyo fmanciero
provisto por PROFONANPE ha tenido un importante impacto en el desarrollo de la capacidad del
INRENA para administrar el sistema peruano de areas protegidas. A este respecto, un primer aspecto
critico ha sido el incremento de la presencia fisica del 1NRENA en el campo. De un total de 60
profesionales de campo disponibles en 1991, el SINANPE ha pasado a contar en 1999 con 278
profesionales distribuidos en un total de 39 areas protegidas, 126 fmanciados por PROFONANPE.
En algunos casos, los recursos fmancieros de PROFONANPE han permitido dar sostenibilidad a los
logros obtenidos por proyectos ejecutados por ONGs, ayudando a cerrar "brechas de recursos"
producidas por la fmalizaci6n de algunos proyectos, tal como ha ocurrido en el caso de la Reserva
Nacional Pacaya - Samiria.
El cambio de politica institucional del INRENA y la disponibilidad de recursos fmancieros estables
han permitido reducir sensiblemente la tasa de rotaci6n del personal de campo, permitiendo la
consolidaci6n de equipos de trabajo con experiencia y alto nivel de motivaci6n, aspectos
indispensables para asegurar la sostenibilidad de la gesti6n. Esta situaci6n tambien ha permitido que
otras instituciones, como la GTZ, inviertan en capacitaci6n.
Otro resultado importante que se puede identificar es el aumento en la calidad de los sistemas de
administraci6n interna del INRENA, lo cual a su vez ha permitido aumentar el nivel de eficiencia en
lo referente a las transferencias de fondos hacia las areas. Parte importante de este proceso de mejora
ha sido producto del constante proceso de coordinaci6n interinstitucional que el INRENA desarrolla
tanto con PROFONANPE como con los demas actores del SINANPE.
Al mismo tiempo, la necesidad de PROFONANPE de contar con planes anuales de trabajo por Area y
la necesidad de desarrollar los mismos con una metodologia participativa ha permitido generar nuevos
espacios de discusi6n, tanto a nivel de la coordinaci6n INRENA-PROFONANPE, como de la propia
coordinaci6n intema entre las Areas y la DGANPFS del INRENA. Durante 1998, PROFONANPE
apoy6 en la organizaci6n de eventos participativos de planificaci6n de las actividades que financiaba
en cada area, proceso cuyo liderazgo ha sido asumido por el 1NRENA, convocando y liderando
talleres de planificaci6n a nivel local. Como parte del proceso de mejora de sus capacidades de
planificaci6n, durante 1999 el INRENA llev6 a cabo procesos de elaboraci6n y/o actualizaci6n de los
Planes Maestros de un total de nueve Areas protegidas y ha publicado el largamente esperado Plan
Director del SINANPE.
- 30 -



A futuro, tal como lo indica la Misi6n de Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino, PROFONANPE, seri un
fondo orientado a fmanciar tanto los costos basicos de operaci6n del sistema (salarios, etc.) como -a
traves de los proyectos que apoyari a partir del ano 2000- el fortalecimiento de las capacidades
institucionales para el manejo participativo del SINANPE, asi como al desarrollo de actividades de
manejo sostenible de recursos naturales por poblaciones locales en zonas de amortiguamiento.
(iii) Proveer al pais con un mecanismo institucional confiable para canalizar operaciones de
canje de deuda bilateral y/o comercial orientadas a la conservaci6n del ambiente: El impacto del
establecimiento de PROFONANPE como mecanismo para la negociaci6n y administraci6n de
operaciones de canje de deuda por naturaleza ha resultado de capital imnportancia, en la medida en que
antes de su creaci6n no existian opciones altemativas de canalizaci6n de dichos recursos, los cuales
de otra formna no hubiesen sido orientados a apoyar actividades de conservaci6n de la biodiversidad.
Un total de cinco operaciones de canje de deuda por naturaleza (1 con Canada, 1 con Finlandia y 3
con Alemania) han sido realizadas desde la creaci6n de PROFONANPE, por un monto de US$ 14.9
millones. A pesar de las actuales restricciones para tener acceso a nuevos recursos financieros
mediante este mecanismo, una operaci6n adicional por aproximadamente US$ 13 millones se
encuentra en proceso de negociaci6n con Alemania.
(iv) Probar la viabilidad del concepto de fondo de fideicomiso como un mecanismo para proveer
financiamiento sostenible y de largo plazo para la conservaci6n de la biodiversidad: A pesar de
que algunas de las metas establecidas para evaluar este objetivo no fueron plenamente alcanzadas, la
conclusi6n principal que surge del analisis de la experiencia es que el fondo de fideicomiso es un
mecanismo muy eficiente para asegurar la sostenibilidad del fmanciamiento para la conservaci6n de la
biodiversidad a largo plazo. Los resultados del desempeflo institucional, comparados con las metas
establecidas fueron los siguientes:
a) Captaci6n de Fondos: Desde su establecimiento PROFONANPE capt6 US$ 27.7
millones de diferentes fuentes de cooperaci6n internacional, combinando mecanismos tales como
canjes deuda por naturaleza, convenios de asistencia fmanciera y t6cnica, donaciones directas,
administraci6n de fondos marcados y autogeneraci6n de fondos intangibles. El anexo 1 muestra los
fondos captados por PROFONANPE desde su establecimiento, ordenados de acuerdo a su modalidad
de administraci6n. La donaci6n de US$ 5.2 millones de FMAM permiti6 atraer recursos fmancieros
adicionales por un monto US$ 22.5 millones (US$ 11.7 millones en proyectos en ejecuci6n y US$
10.8 millones en proyectos iniciandose durante el ano 2000). De acuerdo a la evaluaci6n del FMAM
de la experiencia de los fondos para conservaci6n ahrededor del mundo, PROFONANPE es un
ejemplo notable en este aspecto, habiendo multiplicado su capital semilla por mas de cinco veces entre
1995 y 1999. El Cuadro 1 muestra la evoluci6n del desempeflo de PROFONANPE en la captaci6n de
recursos financieros entre 1994 y 1998.
Cuadro 1: Evoluci6n de la Captaci6n de Fondos, 1994 - 1998
(Dolares Americanos)
Aflto           1994          1995        1996        1997         1998
Fondo Captados por        113,321     6,072,227    15,897,061    16,897,061    27,740,455
PROFONANPE
En el aspecto del desarrollo de un fondo fideicomiso, la meta original de tener un fmico fondo
- 31 -



con un nivel minimo de capital de US$ 40 millones despues de cinco afios, result6 ser muy optimista.
El principal obstAculo para lograrlo fue la dificultad para encontrar otros donantes dispuestos a
proveer recursos financieros al fondo de fideicomiso original o a permitir que los mismos sean
administrados bajo la forma de recursos permanentes e intangibles, principalmente debido a
limitaciones legales y administrativas.
Como respuesta directa a esta situaci6n, PROFONANPE ha desarrollado interesantes e
innovadores mecanismos fmancieros, tales como la capitalizaci6n de los intereses de algunos de sus
fondos amortizables en fondos intangibles marcados orientados a dar sostenibilidad a los logros
alcanzados una vez que los proyectos finalicen. A traves de este mecanismo, PROFONANPE ha
logrado desarrollar un fondo patrimonial intangible para el Santuario Hist6rico de Machu Picchu,
cuyo monto actual alcanza los US$ 1.6 millones y espera contar con US$ 2.5 millones adicionales
luego del final de la ejecuci6n de dos nuevos proyectos a ser financiados via canjes de deuda con
Alemania. El monto actual de recursos manejados en fondos intangibles asciende a US$ 7.5 millones,
distribuidos en tres diferentes fondos patrimoniales.
b) Efectividad Financiera: En general el fondo de fideicomiso donado por el FMAM ha
permitido cubrir los costos operativos anuales y apoyar financieramnente a algunas areas sin haber
reducido el valor del patrimonio. Sin embargo, el rendimiento fmanciero esperado no fue alcanzado
debido a la inestabilidad en las tasas de rendirniento de los instrumentos fmancieros del mercado
peruano, donde se encuentra invertido el mayor porcentaje de recursos de PROFONANPE debido al
riesgo de embargo que sufrian los fondos del gobiemo peruano invertidos en el exterior durante el
periodo de diseflo del proyecto. La meta original de lograr un rendimiento anual estable de 10%
parece haber sido poco realista.
La crisis de los mercados fmancieros emergentes, asi como los problemas propios del
mercado peruano de capitales hicieron imposible alcanzar la meta referida, a pesar de lo cual los
rendimientos alcanzados se encuentran dentro de los margenes obtenidos por otros fondos similares en
otros paises. El rendimiento anual promedio de los portafolios de inversi6n de PROFONANPE fue
desde 13.3% en 1996 a 5.9% en Octubre de 1999. El Cuadro 2 muestra el desempefno fmanciero de
los portafolios de inversi6n de PROFONANPE.
- 32 -



Cuadro 2: Rendimiento de Portafolios de Inversi6n, 1996 - 1999
Portafolios                1996         1997         1998       Oct 1999
Donaci6n
FMAM-Banco Mundial                        17.6%         9.2%        -5.4%         3.6%
Canje de Deuda por Naturaleza
Canada                                    12.2%        10.0%        -0.7%         7.0%/o
Canje de Deuda por Naturaleza
Finlandia- (Fondo Intangible)              8.5%        -0.2%         5.3%         5.8%
Canje de Deuda por Naturaleza
Finlandia- (Fondo amortizable)            10.4%         9.1%        -1.2%         7.2%
Canje de Deuda por Naturaleza
Alemania                                  11.5%        11.8%        -7.1%         9.5%
PROMEDIO GENERAL          13.3%         9.6%        -33%          5.9%
c) Compromiso del Gobierno: La existencia de PROFONANPE como un mecanismo eficiente
de canalizaci6n de fondos para el SINANPE ha permitido que el gobiemo destine mayor cantidad de
recursos hacia las areas protegidas; tanto de forma directa, como a traves de la negociaci6n de
operaciones de canje de deuda por naturaleza. La cobertura de costos basicos que PROFONANPE ha
provisto a las areas a las que ha apoyado le ha permitido a INRENA poder enfocar sus recursos, auin
hoy limitados, de una forina estrategica pudiendo suplir las necesidades concretas de otras areas
protegidas y por ende ampliando su presencia efectiva a nivel del sistema.
Por otro lado, la aprobaci6n reciente del Plan Director del SINANPE habla claramente de la
vocaci6n del gobiemo de iniciar un proceso de gesti6n del sistema como un elemento importante de
una estrategia nacional de desarrollo orientada a un manejo mas eficiente de los recursos naturales.
Otros procesos adicionales actualmente en curso, tales como la discusi6n de una Estrategia y un Plan
Nacional de Biodiversidad y el Plan Maestro del Sector Turistico, permiten prever a corto plazo un
proceso de discusi6n amplia, orientado a definir el papel estrategico del SINANPE en el pais.
d) Impacto en la Biodiversidad: Una de las conclusiones principales de la evaluaci6n del
FMAM sobre la experiencia de los fondos ambientales es que resulta extremadamente dificil poder
establecer una relaci6n causa efecto entre las actividades de fmanciarniento de un fondo y un cambio
en el estado de conservaci6n de la biodiversidad.
Adicionalmente, la larga duraci6n que deberia tener un proceso de evaluaci6n exhaustiva de los
canbios en el estado de la biodiversidad hace que la posibilidad de identificar resultados concretos del
apoyo financiero de PROFONANPE sea limitada, a pesar que la instituci6n ya tenga casi cuatro afios
de financiar actividades en el campo. En todo caso, los indicadores indirectos como el aumento del
personal profesional en el campo, el aumento en el niumero de areas que cuentan con presupuesto
operativo, el aumento de las coordinaciones institucionales, la disponibilidad de infraestructura y
equipo de control, harian dable esperar una mejora en el estado de conservaci6n de la biodiversidad
contenida en el SINANPE.
- 33 -



e) Impacto Social: A nivel de las areas protegidas, el proceso anual de planificaci6n de
actividades de PROFONANPE, el cual requiere estar basado en la participaci6n de los diferentes
actores del SINANPE, ha permitido abrir nuevos espacios de discusi6n, tanto a nivel local como
nacional. A pesar de lo anterior, aun es necesario trabajar mas en este aspecto, buscando socios que
puedan ampliar la cobertura limitada de la instituci6n.
III. DESEMPENiO DEL PROFONANPE DURANTE LA EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
El documento del proyecto establece una serie de metas, las cuales han sido utilizadas para evaluar la
efectividad de la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Estas metas estuvieron organizadas en tres categorias
amplias: desarrollo de la capacidad institucional, efectividad financiera y adecuaci6n del marco legal.
La reciente Misi6n de Cierre concluy6 que la mayoria de las metas fijadas fueron alcanzadas.
S6lamente cinco de las catorce metas fijadas fueron parcialmente alcanzadas.
(i) Desarrollo de la Capacidad Institucional
*   El Consejo Directivo de la instituci6n se reune regularmente: Si bien entre los afnos 1993 y 1996
hubo algunos inconvenientes originados en una alta tasa de rotaci6n de los representantes del sector
pniblico y en las modificaciones en la representaci6n institucional del mismo ante el Consejo,
actualmente se cuenta con participaci6n activa de todos los miembros del mismo.
*   El desempenfo de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n del proyecto es satisfactorio: En este aspecto, se
han dado modificaciones con respecto a la estructura originalmente disefiada, las cuales han tenido
como consecuencia un aumento en la efectividad de la instituci6n en aspectos de planificaci6n,
administraci6n interna y coordinaci6n con otras instituciones. Actualmente se llevan a cabo
evaluaciones del personal de forma regular, superando las limitaciones que el proyecto mostr6 en sus
primeros anios de ejecuci6n. A pesar de lo anterior, el aumento en la cantidad y tipo de proyectos que
ia instituci6n administra obligara a una ampliaci6n del equipo de trabajo para suplir la carga
adicional de responsabilidades resultante. Sin embargo esto estA estrechamente ligado al desarrollo de
la capacidad de gesti6n del SINANPE en su totalidad.
* Los planes de trabajo anuales y los informes de avance son preparados y enviados a tiempo para
consideraci6n del Banco: La evoluci6n de la instituci6n ha ido de acuerdo a lo esperado, produciendo
cada vez mejores documentos, a medida que la complejidad por el niimero y tipo de proyectos
administrados ha ido aumentando. A pesar de haberse logrado cumplir plenamente con este
requerimniento, es necesario aiin formalizar el proceso de preparaci6n de los mismos, haciendolos mas
participativos y contando con mayor participaci6n de los miembros del Comite Tecnico en su
preparaci6n. La idea a futuro es que los ejecutores directos de proyectos asuman mayores
responsabilidades en el proceso de preparaci6n de los mismos y que PROFONANPE adopte mas una
posici6n de coordinaci6n.
*   Los desembolsos, principalmente al INRENA, se realizan de forma fluida y a tiempo: Durante el
periodo en el cual PROFONANPE realiz6 desembolsos directos a las ireas protegidas, el nivel de
ejecuci6n de los proyectos estuvo en el orden del 92% anual con respecto a lo presupuestado, nivel
notable alcanzado debido a que la instituci6n cuenta con procedimientos de desembolso altamente
flexibles. Luego de un natural proceso de ajuste y desarrollo de capacidades, el 1NRENA ha asumido
mayores responsabilidades en le canalizaci6n de fondos hacia las areas protegidas, con niveles de
ejecuci6n mayores al 90%.
- 34 -



*   Los costos de administraci6n de la instituci6n estuvieron dentro del margen esperado: Los costos
de administraci6n de la instituci6n estuvieron por debajo del litnite maximo acordado originalnente
con el Banco en el spending rule: US$ 650,000 para un periodo de 5 afios y de las ampliaciones
autorizadas por el mismo Banco en los aflios 1998 y 1999. En cuanto a la carga porcentual de los
costos operativos sobre el presupuesto total, 6sta se ha reducido de 38% en 1996 a 15% en 1999. El
cuadro 3 muestra la comparaci6n de los costos de administraci6n acordados en el spending rule, con
respecto a los costos de administraci6n reales de PROFONANPE entre 1995 y 1999.
Cuadro 3: Comparaci6n de los Costos Acordados en el Spending Rule y Costos Reales de
Administraci6n
(Dolares Americanos)
Aflo            1995    1996      1997         1998           1999         TOTAL
Costos Administrativos      0     150,00   159,000     166,000        175,000        650,000
Esperados (Spending Rule)             0
Costos Administrativos      0     130,90   143,181     173,241        222,175        669,499
Reales                                2
DIFERENCIA                  O     19,098   15,819     -7,241(1)      -47,175(2)     - 19,499(3)
Nota: (1) En 1998 se autorizo una ampliaci6n del spending rule por un monto de US$ 10,000 anuales
adicionales en apoyo a la ejecuci6n del Programa Proteccion de Areas Naturales, por lo que el"
saldo real" ese afio fue de US$ 2,759 a favor de PROFONANPE.
(2) En el aflo 1999 se autoriz6 el desembolso de US$ 44,000 adicionales con la fmalidad de cubrir
las remuneraciones del puesto de Jefe del Departamento Tecnico, por lo que el "saldo real" ese aflo
fue de US$ 6,825 a favor de PROFONANPE.
(3) En raz6n de las ampliaciones autorizadas en 1998 y 1999, el "saldo real" para todo el periodo
fue de US$ 44,501 a favor de PROFONANPE.
Se han llevado a cabo auditorias externas de forma regular, obteniendose resultados
satisfactorios: Desde el inicio de sus operaciones PROFONANPE ha realizado auditorias contables
extemas, obteniendo resultados satisfactorios en cada una de ellas. A partir del afio 1999 se realizan
auditorias trimestrales, lo cual facilita el control sobre los recursos canalizados a los diferentes
ejecutores de proyectos.
Las adquisiciones fueron hechas siguiendo los procedimientos establecidos del Banco: si bien las
adquisiciones realizadas a travds de recursos provenientes del fondo donado por el FMAM han sido
limitadas en niimero, los procedimientos establecidos fueron cumplidos plenamnente. En el caso de
proyectos fmanciados por otros donantes, los procedimientos exigidos por cada uno fueron
estrictamnente respetados.
PROFONANPE concuerda con las conclusiones de las Misiones de Evaluaci6n de Medio Ternino y
de Cierre, acerca de las metas parcialmente cumplidas, al mismo tiempo que propone, en la Secci6n
VI de este documento, formas concretas de operaci6n a futuro que permitirian mejorar la efectividad
institucional.
(ii) Efectividad Financiera
- 35 -



La experiencia concreta de PROFONANPE ensefia que los arreglos iniciales, adecuados para el
momento en que se formul6 el proyecto, deberian ser sujetos de revisi6n de forma peri6dica. El
ejemplo mas claro de esto es el referido a la inversi6n de gran parte de los recursos en el mercado
peruano, lo cual ha tenido consecuencias directas sobre las fuertes fluctuaciones, positivas y
negativas, a las que se ha visto sometido el rendimiento de los portafolios de inversi6n de la
instituci6n.
En el aspecto de los costos operativos, la experiencia concreta muestra que si bien el spending rule
permniti6 cubrir adecuadamnente los costos de administraci6n, seria recomendable a futuro trabajar con
escenarios donde el mismo no se determine de forma estatica (mediante cifras absolutas), sino que
est6 en relaci6n al monto total ejecutado por el fondo cada ano, respondiendo directamente a las
mayores o menores necesidades de administraci6n generadas por diferentes montos de ejecuci6n
anual. El inicio de nuevos proyectos, asi como el aumento en las responsabilidades de seguimiento y
evaluaci6n a nivel de campo por parte del PROFONANPE, requeriran una discusi6n profunda acerca
del rango de costos operativos necesarios para poder suplir las necesidades de gesti6n de estas nuevas
actividades.
(iii) Adecuaci6n del Marco Legal
En este aspecto el punto critico continua siendo el tema tributario para la instituci6n, y las actividades
que financia, tema en proceso de resoluci6n, lo que permitira superar los obstaculos presentados hasta
la fecha y cumplir con la meta acordada.
IV. DESEMPEIO DEL BANCO DURANTE LA EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
La supervisi6n lievada a cabo por el Banco resulto uitil en la sugerencia de medidas correctivas
durante el proceso de ejecuci6n y en el apoyo a las decisiones estrategicas que dieron direcci6n a
dicho proceso de ejecuci6n. Algunas de las recomendaciones de las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco
resultaron un poco dificiles de llevar a cabo, principalmente debido a procedimientos de resoluci6n
complejos y lentos, que impidieron obtener resultados expeditos. El ejemplo mas claro a este respecto
ha sido el referido al problema tributario.
La supervisi6n del Banco fue llevada a cabo de forma regular y contribuy6 en la identificaci6n de
problemas y sugerencias de soluciones a los mismos, especialmente durante momentos criticos como
el del periodo de transici6n entre los dos Directores Ejecutivos que la instituci6n ha tenido hasta la
fecha. La supervisi6n en el aspecto fmanciero permitieron mejorar el control sobre el desempefno de
los portafolios de inversi6n, identificando los riesgos y recomendando soluciones a los problemas.
V. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
La principal lecci6n aprendida como resultado de la ejecuci6n del proyecto es inherente a su disefno, el
cual incluy6 el establecimiento de un fondo privado e independiente, que sirviera de espacio de
intercambio entre diferentes actores y que contara con un equipo de personal altamente calificado y
motivado, ambos requisitos esenciales para lograr el exito de una instituci6n como PROFONANPE.
De acuerdo a la experiencia adquirida durante el proceso de ejecuci6n del proyocto y a las
evaluaciones externas de que ha sido objeto, las principales lecciones aprendidas por el
- 36 -



PROFONANPE han sido:
La importancia del capital semilla como proveedor de la sostenibilidad fmanciera necesaria para
asegurar la operaci6n minima de la instituci6n y por ende potenciar su capacidad de captaci6n y
administraci6n de fondos y de canalizaci6n de recursos para proyectos.
*   La concentraci6n tematica en areas protegidas ha facilitado la planificaci6n de actividades, al
contar con una misi6n clara y bien definida. Al mismo tiempo, ha permitido a otros donantes
coordinar esfuerzos de financiamiento, buscando la complementariedad de sus aportes al SINANPE,
reduciendo las posibilidades de traslapes de actividades, fmancieros, geogrificos, etc.
Las oportunidades de captaci6n de fondos no siempre respondieron a lo previsto durante el
periodo de disenlo del proyecto; en trmninos de mecanismos de administraci6n de los recursos,
duraci6n de los procesos de negociaci6n, montos, etc. Como respuesta a esto, la instituci6n desarroll6
una enorme flexibilidad, lo cual le ha permitido combinar diferentes mecanismos de administraci6n de
recursos, acceder a fondos de diferente naturaleza, etc. Particular atenci6n requieren las innovaciones
en materia fmanciera tales como la capitalizaci6n de los intereses de los fondos amortizables en
fondos fiduciarios intangibles, practica que en este momento es recomendada por el FMAM como una
fuente innovadora de obtener recursos financieros adicionales para los fondos patrimoniales.
*   Si bien la conformaci6n del Consejo Directivo no supuso ninguna limitaci6n pam el
aprovechamiento de las oportunidades de obtener recursos fmancieros adicionales, la tendencia futura
entre las entidades donantes es a preferir Directorios con mayoria clara del sector privado y la
sociedad civil, por lo que podrian generarse algunas limitaciones para el acceso futuro a nuevos
recursos.
*   Un funico Comite Tecnico, conformado como grupo amnplio de consulta no resulta funcional
debido a la multiplicidad de aspectos que un fondo como PROFONANPE debe manejar, por lo que
esto limita su potencial de aporte. La conformaci6n de un Comite dividido por temas es indispensable,
en la medida en que la asesoria en temas legales, financieros, de planificaci6n y tecnicos resultan
indispensables para asegurar el exito de la gesti6n institucional.
*   El establecimiento de un sistema eficiente de seguimiento y evaluaci6n de los proyectos supone
un aumento en los costos directos de administraci6n de la instituci6n. Cualquiera sea el sistema que se
elija utilizar y el alcance del mismo, este debera responder a un cuidadoso analisis de los costos y
beneficios asociados a su establecimiento y puesta en funcionamiento. En este sentido, la
coordinaci6n de actividades con otros actores trabajando en el SINANPE resulta absolutamente
fundarnental.
Si bien la cobertura de costos operativos basicos de las areas es una actividad de capital
importancia para asegurar la viabilidad del SINANPE, esta resulta insuficiente en una perspectiva de
largo plazo, en la medida en que las areas protegidas enfrentan problemas complejos para cuya
soluci6n el PROFONANPE puede resultar una herramienta eficaz a traves de la consecuci6n de
fondos especificos destinados a apoyar un mejor manejo de los recursos naturales y a generar
beneficios econ6micos de este manejo a nivel de las comunidades locales
VI. RECOMENDACIONES PARA LA OPERACION FUTURA
- 37 -



Las recomendaciones aqui incluidas recogen los aportes de las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco, asi
como de la evaluaci6n independiente llevada a cabo en diciembre de 1999. La recomendaci6n de
procurar el desarrollo de una segunda fase del proyecto resulta coherente y por tanto cuenta con el
pleno apoyo de esta instituci6n. De acuerdo al analisis de los resultados alcanzados y la experiencia
adquirida durante la primera fase, esta segunda fase deberia buscar expandir el universo de ejecutores
de proyectos financiados por o a traves de PROFONANPE, buscando incluir a mas actores de la
sociedad civil, en la linea de participaci6n amnpliada que el propio Plan Director del SINANPE
establece.
A corto y mediano plazo una serie de medidas necesitan ser tomadas para asegurar una mejor
eficiencia de operaci6n a futuro y dar sostenibilidad a los logros alcanzados. Estas medidas incluyen:
(i) El desarrollo de un Plan Estrategico, incluyendo una estrategia especifica de captaci6n de
nuevos recursos fmancieros: Este documento debera basarse en los lineamientos del Plan Director del
SINANPE y ser producto de un proceso participativo amplio. El plan deberia abordar los siguientes
temas: (i) aspectos legales y normativos y su efecto sobre la planificaci6n a largo plazo de la
instituci6n, (ii) aspectos institucionales tales como las fonnas de coordinaci6n con otras entidades
tales corno el INRENA y los demAs actores del SINANPE, (iii) aspectos operativos y (iv) aspectos
financieros tales como el desarrollo de mecanismos que fomenten la contribuci6n y participaci6n del
sector privado en la conservaci6n de la diversidad biol6gica.
(ii) Es necesario proceder a la reestructuraci6n del Comite Tecnico, en Subcomites, de forma tal que
se pueda hacer efectivo el aporte del mismo a la operaci6n de PROFONANPE. Estos Subcomites
podrian ser presididos por un miembro del Consejo Directivo y deberian incluir a expertos
reconocidos en los temas que se determinen necesarios. De acuerdo a la experiencia acumulada, la
conformaci6n de por lo menos los tres Subcomites siguientes resulta de capital importancia y deberia
ser considerada a corto plazo: (i) Planificaci6n, (ii) Aspectos Tecnicos y (iii) Aspectos Financieros.
(iii) Es necesario crear un Comite Ad hoc de Administraci6n Financiera, compuesto por un miembro
del Consejo Directivo con experiencia en manejo financiero, tres expertos y el asesor extemo
independiente y el Director Ejecutivo de PROFONANPE. Al mismo tiempo, se requiere desarrollar
una estrategia de manejo fmanciero, asi como contar con la asesoria de un experto intemacional con
el cual discutir los pros y contras de colocar parte de los recursos financieros de PROFONANPE en
mercados intemacionales y que al mismo tiempo disefie un plan de acci6n detallado para Ilevar a cabo
este proceso si es que se decide conveniente.
(iv) Finalmente, es necesario iniciar el proceso de discusi6n tendiente a determinar si es
recomendable una ampliaci6n del Consejo Directivo, con la fnalidad de ampliar el actual nivel de
representaci6n de la sociedad civil en el mismo. Este proceso debera ser Ilevado a cabo teniendo en
cuenta los retos que la instituci6n tendra que enfrentar a futuro.
- 38 -



Anexo 1
Total de Fondos Captados por Modalidad de Administraci6n 1994 - 1999
(D61ares Americanos)
Fuente         Modalidad          Fecha          Duraci6n            Monto
Portafolios de
Inversitn
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario
Bilateral con   intangible          Mayo 95        A perpetuidad        354,920
Canada
Donaci6n        Fondo fiduciario
FMAM-Banco    intangible            Mayo 95        A perpetuidad        5,223,986
Mundial
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario
Bilateral con   arnortizable        Enero 96           10aflos          6,089,309
Alemania
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario
Bilateral con   amortizable         Marzo 96          3-5 aflos         3,579,020
Finlandia
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario
Bilateral con   intangible/autog    Marzo 96       A perpetuidad         100,000
Finlandia       enerado
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario                     10 afios / a
Bilateral con   amortizable/inta    Octubre 98      perpetuidad         2,409,639
Alemania        ngible
Canje Deuda     Fondo fiduciario                     10 alios / a
Bilateral con   amortizable/inta    Octubre 98      perpetuidad         2,409,639
Alemania        ngible
Asistencia
Tlcnica y
Financlera
Donaci6n        Asistencia          Febrero 98         2 aflos          1,000,000
Finlandia      tecnica
Donaci6n KfW    Asistencia         Setiembre 98        5 aflos          6,024,096
- Alemania      financiera
Fondos
Marcados y
Otras
Donaciones
- 39 -



Donaci6n
Embajada de     Equipos y            Enero 94                             113,321
Canada          Vehiculos
Donaci6n
Proyecto        Fondo marcado        Enero 95           2 aflos           300,000
FANPE-GTZ
Donaci6n de la
Fundaci6n       Fondo marcado      Septiembre 95        3 affos           80,000
MacArthur
Donaci6n de la
Fundaci6n       Fondo marcado        Enero 96           1 affo            50,000
MacArthur
Donaci6n de la                                         Reserva
Embajada de     Fondo marcado        Marzo 96       Contingencial          6,505
los Palses Bajos
Total                                                           27,740,434
-40 -



CARTE






7t-                       .                                              72~
PERU                -">-'                                                  -
EXISTING PROTECTED AREAS                                     -'
>1 ~~~                     COLOMBIA-                         >4
'-2-i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ECUADOR                                ~                                            
~~~~~~~2                                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORETO  40    5                                              A
PIURA         .,'..r..
0PIURA      22           , 
0                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~06
3   '0  4   r        ,      ,.                 J
C1  31. ~~~~r                      SAN 
LAM~AEQUE  4(AMR
C5ItCLAV,7   t%AAJACA                      ARTIN/
'Y CAJAMARCA    \
0  t ~~~~~~~~~~~~%BRAZIL
L    A LBERTAD          V~.j 
TTUJILt-09p    iS18'
,429
5~~~~~~~9'
HUAIUCO 
PARQUES NACIONALES                                               J)AC :-                                     --
3 ~~~~~~~~2                                   CERRO             3 
7 Y .. .q.-Ch.iII6.LIMA                                  JNNMADRE DE DIOS
10 Junfin                                                  1      (UI4AEc2                        Cuzco)
11 Parocas~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                                  2
14  Salina y Ag-ocl 1llnc -                                                                   20'o  -
1 5Calipay                                                                                  APRIA
16  Ponya Snsina                  14'                         CAO                                                                                     IA'~APRIA
ICA    ) AYACUCHO                         4 
SANTUARIOS NACIONALES                                                Q. 9                                            f        PUNO        /      a
1 7  Haylloy                                                                                     r-,d
18  CalipUy                                                                  I
1 9Logwos de M.ji.                                                                                      16~~~~~~~~~~~~"1* 
20 Aspay                              786 76.                                                                                    13,
2 1Moaglaoas do TumbesI                                                                          AREQUIP 
22  Tobocaco-Nomn6oll                                                                                                          PUNO         \6
SANTUARIOS HISTORICOS                 BOGE   EPOECO                                                   REQUIPA 0
23  Clsoonsnc                         41  AlesJoll a La Ba-tob-ta
24  Papsd  ycoCanal MNna Irpeniol                                                                                    MOQUEGUA
25  Manhapkch.s                       42  Pugnia Santo Rosa                                                   19  ' MOOUEGUA)U 
43  Pui Pui                                                                       0~
ZONAS RESERVADAS                   1 s-   f-s  Cdods/TAN
26  Monu                               5Pgibma~S
27  Laquipanspa                       46 Alto May                              ID   5I 0    5                              TATNA50
28  Ap.rtmmoc
29  Pontoon de VilloRESERVAS COMUNALES756CHE 
30 Tambapoo-Condom.                   47 Yan-ho 
31  Bat6n Gronda                     I]crn    tC
32 TumnbnsCTS  ECZ
33  Algarr1ba1 El Ma.a                48  El Angola
34  Choncybualios                     49  Sunchulabo.64   NATIONAL CAPITAL
35  Ayasor-Lupaco                                                                                       0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
36 Gseppi                                                                                            -N      RIVERS
37  Rio Rin-a                                                                                         D,-EPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
38  AtCanyChsPchco                                  ,p.5tUIntc.,dwwk- - -  INTERNATIONA[ BOUNDARIES
>  39  Sa-tiago Cornina                                toomo.TW.d.
40 Allpohuayo-Mish...~ 



