GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
1 3541IPC-
Republic of Peru
National Trust Fund for Protected Areas
Project Document
March 1995
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Enviroinient Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 23540-PER
Republic of Peru
National Trust Fund for Protected Areas
Project Document
March 1995






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=New Sol
US$1.0 = 0.4576 New Soles
US$1.0 - 1.6044 Deutsche Mark
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
CIDA                      Canadian International Development Agency
DGAPFS                    Directorate General of Protected Areas and Wildlife (Direccion General de
Areas Protegidas y Fauna Silvestre)
FONANPE                   Trust Fund for the Conservation of Peru's Protected Areas
(Fondo Nacional para Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
GEF                       Global Environment Facility
GET                       Global Environment Trust
GOP                       Government of Peru
GTZ                       Deutsche Gesellschaft fuir Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
INRENA                    National Institute of Natural Resources
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
NGO                       Non-Governmental Organization
PROFONANPE                The entity created as a not-for-profit entity of public interest but under private
law to administer the assets of PROFONANPE (Pro Fondo Nacional para
Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
SINANPE                   National System of Natural Areas Protected by the State (Sistema Nacional de
Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
TC                        Technical Commnittee
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Peru in August, 1994. Mission members were
Messrs./Mmes. Claudia L. Alderman (mission leader). Alberto Ninio (Envirornental Lawyer), Bemardita Zapata (consultant,
financial issues), Mark Cymrot (consultatit, legal iss i). Ms. Michele de Nevers (LA2EU) was the peer reviewer. Other
people who contributed to the project preparation wt . Messrs./Mmes. Christine Kimes, GEF coordinator, Kathleen Mikitin
(ENVGC) and Jainison Suter (consultant). Mr. Rudl IfVan Puymbroeck (LEGLA) provided legal advice, and Mr. Francisco
Tourreilles provided advice cn financial miatters. The GEF outside technical reviewers were Messrs./Mmes. Norman Myers,
John Terborgh and Margaret Symington. Messrs. Yoshiaki Abe and Nicholas Krafft were Department Director (LA3DR) and
Division Chief (LA3NR) respectively.
April 26, 1995 12:01pm






Part I: Project Summary






PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Source of Grant:                  Global Environment Trust (GET)
Grant Recipient:                  The Republic of Peru
Beneficiaries:                    Designated Peruvian National Parks and Reserves
Amount:                           SDR 3.5 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Total Project Cost:               US$6.361 million (five-year pilot phase)
Terms:                            Grant
Financing Plan (five-year pilot phase):
GET Grant                  3.5 SDR (US$5.0 million equivalent), for investment capital
for the trust fund
FONANPE                    US$1.361 million, interest income from trust fund
Economic Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Map:                             IBRD 2501OR
ESTIMATED GRANT DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
(US$ '000)
World Bank       FY95        FY96         FY97         FY98          FY99
Fiscal Year
Annual          5.0          0           0             0            0
Cwnumlative      5.0          5.0          5.0          5.0          5.0






PERU
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
1.    Country/Sector Background. Peru ranks as one of the biologically most important countries
in South America, and among the handful of megadiversity countries in the world. It contains a
higher proportion of the species-rich forests of Western Amazonia and the tropical Andes than any
other country. Peru has an estimated 19 percent of the bird species, 9 percent of the mammals, and 9
percent of the amphibians in the world. The Peruvian Amazon contains an extraordinary assemblage
of species: in the Iquitos area in northern Peru, for example, a single hectare of tropical rain forest
has been found to contain 300 species of trees, by far the highest heterogeneity on Earth, for such a
small land sample. Two of Peru's large protected areas, Manu Biosphere Reserve and Tambopata-
Candamo Reserved Zone, contain the world's highest recorded diversities of birds, mammals,
reptiles, amphibians, freshwater fishes, vascular plants, trees, butterflies, and invertebrates.
2.     Peru's unique biodiversity, however, faces threats. The most important of these stem from
the deforestation resulting from several decades of spontaneous and government-promoted
colonization of mountain slopes in the eastern Andes and in tropical and temperate inter-Andean
valleys. Although over ninety percent of the Amazonian lowlands of the country are still forested,
some large vertebrates and valuable timber species are now confined to an estimated 30 to 40 percent
of Peru's Amazon.
3.     The government recently eliminated many of the distortionary economic incentives that made
colonization of its Amazonian lowlands attractive to Peruvian subsistence farmers. In late 1990 the
Peruvian Congress passed an environmental code that contains several conservation provisions,
including the positive step of abolishing legislation which provided incentives for colonizing
Amazonia. Furthermore, the code requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement for
any development activity in Amazonia -- whether public or private. Recently, legislation has also
been passed requiring environmental impact assessment for mining, fishing and industrial development
investments. Despite these legislative efforts, however, the government may have difficulty slowing
the colonization of the Amazonian lowlands. After a decade of severe economic and political crisis,
Peru is significantly reformulating its policies, setting the stage for economic recovery. It has
succeeded in drastically reducing the inflation and terrorist activity that crippled the nation until very
recently. These changes can imply a large influx of tourists and, more importantly, increased
investment to exploit Peru's natural resources, both of which pose real threats to the country's
biological wealth.
4.     These problems, however, have not yet directly damaged the integrity of Peru's vital sites of
biodiversity. Peru has managed to set aside more than 6 million hectares of wet, moist, and dry
tropical forest in national parks, reserves, and sanctuaries throughout the country. Moreover, the
legislation related to protected areas in Peru is comprehensive and sound. In 1993, the government
established the National Institute of Natural Resources (INRENA), bringing together the expertise of
all Peruvian public agencies involved with the management and conservation of Peru's natural
resources. Peru's legislative and institutional efforts notwithstanding, the Government of Peru (GOP)
has been unable to devote sufficient resources to its conservation areas. It cannot afford to develop or
implement a coordinated national management plan for protected areas. Conservation efforts have
thus been haphazard. Only four national parks receive any management services through INRENA;
the other protected areas have no permanent management personnel. The 1991 Tropical Forestry
Action Plan reported that the park system employs 110 park guards for 5.5 million hectares, or one



guard per 50,000 hectares. This index is only one among many that may be construed to indicate the
severe deficiency of administrative and managerial inputs. Moreover, because of low salaries and
lack of job security from budgetary fluctuations, the Peruvian park system has been unable to attract
and retain qualified personnel.
5.     Project Objectives. The project has four major objectives, to: (i) provide a long term and
predictable source of funding for the protection of Peru's biodiversity through the establishment of a
trust fund, the income of which would be used for financing the management of priority protected
areas; (ii) improve INRENA's capacity to protect and manage Peru's protected areas; (iii) provide the
country with a reliable institutional mechanism to channel debt donations for sustainable development
and conservation through bilateral and commercial debt-for-nature swap agreements; and (iv) test the
viability of trust funds as mechanisms for providing long term and sustainable funding for biodiversity
conservation.
6.     Project Description. Peru's government is committed to developing innovative mechanisms
which would guarantee the appropriate management of Peru's protected areas and biodiversity. To
this end, in December of 1992, the GOP created by Decree Law the Fondo Nacional para Areas
Protegidas por el Estado (FONANPE), as part of a trust fund mechanism designed to provide long-
term, sustained funding for Peru's protected areas. At the same time, the government created
PROFONANPE as a not-for-profit institution under private law to manage the fund and to direct the
use of its investment proceeds. In anticipation of the GEF grant, and on the bases established by the
preparation of this project, PROFONANPE started operating in June 1993 under a grant from the
German technical cooperation agency, the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
GmbH (GTZ). During its first year, PROFONANPE has strengthened itself as an organization by
conducting an institutional strategic planning exercise involving a dozen NGOs, has developed criteria
for managing its small grants program, has issued requests for proposals, and has negotiated Peru's
first debt-for-nature swap.
7.     To support PROFONANPE, the Global Environment Trust (GET) would provide SDR 3.5
million (US$5.0 million equivalent) as seed money for the Peruvian trust fund. In keeping with the
GEF's goal of using its resources to leverage additional funds, the GET grant would be
complemented by a parallel grant of US$1.5 million from GTZ. While the German grant does not
form part of the capital of the trust fund per se, this contribution will help to consolidate and
strengthen the GOP's capacity to coordinate all Peruvian conservation efforts and will lay the basis
for the conservation activities supported by the trust fund. Moreover, GTZ's contribution will
provide essential operational funds during the pilot phase of PROFONANPE until the trust fund
reaches a sufficient size for the income to sustainably finance the project activities with its own
income.
8.     The by-laws governing the operation of FONANPE were drafted by a working group
comprised of representatives from the GOP and from seven Peruvian conservation NGOs. This group
also developed criteria for selecting the protected areas which would be initially supported by the
project. These criteria include: (i) the global importance of the area for biodiversity conservation, in
terms of species diversity and endemism; (ii) the relative feasibility of management; and (iii) the
degree of environmental impact resulting from human activity. Although several protected areas meet
these criteria, given resource constraints, three priority areas were selected for initial support by the
trust fund: Manu National Park and Biosphere Reserve, Rio Abiseo National Park, and Noroeste
Biosphere Reserve (composed of the Cerros de Amotape National Park, Coto de Caza el Angolo,



Bosque Nacional de Tumbes and Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary). As the trust fund's
capital increases through additional contributions, other protected areas would be integrated into the
program, based on the criteria described above and on the Master Plan for National Protected Areas
currently being developed under the auspices of GTZ.
9.    The income generated by the trust fund (estimated conservatively at US$ 1.361 million for the
first five years) will be used to finance a variety of conservation activities in the selected areas and
their buffer zones. Schedule A provides a summary of the project costs, and Schedule B contains the
procurement and disbursement arrangements for the project. The activities eligible for funding
include:
*     Financing the recurrent costs of protected area management (mainly staff salaries and
operating expenses)
*     Drafting, revising and implementing management plans
*     Establishing and managing buffer zones
*     Training professionals in park and wildlife management
*     Instituting environmental education and public awareness programs for communities associated
with protected areas
*     Implementing projects that integrate conservation and development to benefit the communities
living in the protected areas and their buffer zones
*     Institutional support for the strengthening of the field work of INRENA's Directorate General
of National Protected Areas and Wildlife
*     Administrative expenses of PROFONANPE
10.   The complementary activities financed separately by GTZ include: (i) support to INRENA in
the form of infrastructure, equipment and training; (ii) development of a master plan for the
management of all protected areas in the country; (iii) hiring of consultants to provide technical
support to INRENA; (iv) institutional building and operational costs of PROFONANPE; and (v) a
two-year program of small grants for NGOs to support sustainable development and conservation
projects. This program will be managed jointly by PROFONANPE and GTZ.
11.   Project Implementation. PROFONANPE is governed by a Board of Directors, composed of
three representatives from the Peruvian government, three representatives from Peruvian conservation
NGOs elected by the Peruvian Environmental Network, and a representative from an international
cooperation agency (initially the GTZ). One of the government representatives will assume
chairmanship of the Board. PROFONANPE's Board will meet at least twice a year to review project
progress and to decide policy issues. The Board will additionally meet as needed to review the
reports of the project coordinator and of the managers of the protected areas and the auditors, as well
as to approve the annual work programs and budgets proposed by each protected area, and to carry
out other responsibilities as specified in PROFONANPE's bylaws.
12.   Day-to-day project management and administration would be carried out by a professional
Project Coordinator appointed by the Board. The Board will be advised by an independent Technical
Committee (TC) composed of scientists and natural resource management experts experienced in park
and wildlife management and other disciplines relevant to program activities. A subset of this
committee will be comprised of financial experts and will advise PROFONANPE on its financial
investments. The TC would also be responsible for developing criteria for project monitoring and
evaluation, and for conducting an annual evaluation on the performance of the asset manager. The



- 4 -
TC is an additional forum in which relevant conservation NGOs can contribute substantively to the
project.
13.   The allocation of resources within each protected area will be determined by
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors on the basis of an annual work program prepared by the Project
Coordinator. The work program will be based on an analysis of the requirements and needs of each
area, made jointly by INRENA and PROFONANPE's Coordinator. Given the project's commitment
to a community-based, participatory approach to conservation, the needs assessment will be made in
consultation with each protected area's administrative officer, local committees (where they exist),
park officers, grassroots organizations and local communities. Each work program will include a
statement of specific objectives for the year and a description of activities to be undertaken in order to
achieve those objectives.
14.   The fund's assets would be managed by a Peruvian investment bank, according to investment
objectives and guidelines specified in section IV of the attached Technical Report and recorded in the
Project Agreement. These guidelines specify the investment risk profile and the acceptable trade-offs
between growth of the total value of the investment capital and the stability of annual income flows.
Part of the investment income generated each year would be spent to finance conservation activities in
Peru, while a predetermined amount of the income would be reinvested to maintain the real value of
the principal.
15.   The utilization of the funds for the program during the five-year pilot phase will be reviewed
during Bank supervision. Upon final evaluation of the performance of PROFONANPE, the Bank
would cease its formal involvement with the project. However, if FONANPE is dissolved for
whatever reason, or if it becomes evident, even after GEF's involvement in the project has ceased,
that FONANPE's funds are being used for purposes other than biodiversity conservation, the Bank, as
Trustee of the GET, would be entitled to obtain the repayment of the amount so spent. Also, the
Bank as Trustee of the GET would be entitled to seek repayment for any expenditures that are not
consistent with the terms of the Grant and Project Agreements.
16.   Project Sustainability. The recurrent cost financing mechanism supported by this project
provides built-in continuity of hard currency funding, under management arrangements which depend
little on the constrained Government budget or adverse macroeconomic conditions. At the same time,
PROFONANPE has proven to be an attractive vehicle for raising additional funds internationally.
17.   Lessons From Previous Bank Involvement. There has been no previous Bank involvement
in sectors relevant to this project in Peru itself. Experience in other countries has shown, however,
that failure to intervene would result in progressive degradation of vulnerable habitats. Under the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) there are several similar trust fund projects currently under
preparation. These include the Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation, the
Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust in Uganda, and the Congo Wildlands Protection
Project. The only other such project under implementation is the Bhutan Trust Fund for
Environmental Conservation, where few lessons can yet be drawn, as the project has been in
operation only a short time. Additionally, independently from GEF support, countries such as the
Philippines and Bolivia have established national conservation-related funds with initially positive
results.



18.    What all the above-mentioned trust funds have in common is that they are designed to provide
long-term, sustained funding for projects promoting conservation of biological diversity and
sustainable use of natural resources. Too often, donors have focused on short term projects,
providing funding for only 2 to 5 years. Yet, many conservation activities may require 10, 20 or
more years of sustained funding to have a real impact. Unless funding is sustained over a long
period, the results obtained from a short term project may evaporate. Trust funds can be effective
mechanisms for guaranteeing a long term financial commitment and for overcoming unpredictable
government and donor agency budget fluctuations. This is particularly important when funding
recurrent costs. Reliable funding improves program stability, long-range planning, training and
recruitment of personnel, and the overall impact of a conservation program. While the future of
national environment funds is promising, we still have much to learn about their design and
management. Generally, the design phase is a long and arduous process. This is because in order to
establish credibility at the national level, there must be a process of consensus building particularly
with regard to appropriate governance structures and criteria for eligibility of grants. Many technical
questions need to be addressed as well, such as the appropriate fiduciary arrangements for the
management of fund assets and the legal character of the fund.
19.    Rationale for GEF Funding. Safeguarding biodiversity worldwide depends, in the short
term, as much on selectivity as on scale. Protecting specific megadiversity parks such as those
contemplated in this project will secure a small but ecologically viable sample of biodiversity until
more comprehensive protection efforts can be mounted. In the case of Peru, the government cannot
currently place global environmental initiatives at the top of its list of priorities. Peru is in the early
phase of economic restructuring and recapitalization. In light of this situation, this project will serve
as a model for long-term financing of protected areas in countries where political uncertainty and
economic constraints currently preclude the government from allocating adequate resources to
conservation activities.
20.    The project's structure also provides an important opportunity for testing the design and
management issues associated with financing the recurrent costs of biodiversity conservation. The
trust fund is an appropriate mechanism in the case of Peru for several reasons. First, by releasing
funds slowly over an extended period, the absorptive capacity of the institutions involved will not be
exceeded. This will improve the likelihood that the funds will be used effectively. Second, the
financial stability provided by the trust fund will alleviate the Peruvian park system's inability to
retain qualified personnel because of low salaries and insecure job tenure resulting from budgetary
fluctuations. Third, the recurrent costs that will be financed by the income of the trust fund are the
hardest to raise repeatedly from donors, who like to support projects with a definite beginning and
end. The income of the trust fund would supplement the limited support that Peru's government can
allocate to these parks for the foreseeable future. If this financing is not provided, by the time Peru's
economic situation improves to the point where the government can provide sufficient resources to
support its protected areas, many of these areas could be largely deforested and their unique
biological diversity lost or severely damaged. This GEF project could also be an important catalyzer
of additional funding for conservation efforts in Peru. After nearly a decade of debt mismanagement,
Peru is currently in the process of renegotiating its debt. Through the Club of Paris agreements,
Peru's official bilateral debt has been given a framework for negotiations which include the option for
debt-for-nature swaps and other debt reduction mechanisms. Under this framework, Peru's first debt-
for-nature swap with Canada was approved and negotiations are under way with three additional
countries. In this realm, PROFONANPE provides a reliable window for debt donations for



- 6 -
environmental and development purposes, an option which Peru did not have available before the
GEF promoted the creation of the fund.
21.   Actions Agreed.
During negotiations the Bank and the Government agreed that:
For twenty five years from the date of the Grant:
(a)   Decree and Bylaws. FONANPE and PROFONANPE's implementing legislation and
by-laws will not be amended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner which, in the
opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the implementation of the
project or the attainment of its objectives;
(b)   Dissolution. If FONANPE is dissolved for whatever reason, or if it becomes evident,
even after GEF's involvement in the project has ceased, that FONANPE's funds are
being used for purposes other than biodiversity conservation, the Bank, as Trustee of the
GET, would be entitled to obtain repayment of the amount so spent;
(c)   Repayment. The Bank as Trustee of the GET would be entitled to seek repayment for
any expenditures that are not consistent with the terms of the Grant and Project
Agreements.
The Bank and PROFONANPE agreed that:
(a)  Investment Arrangements. For 10 years after the date of the Grant, the Board of
PROFONANPE will not change the investment arrangements and guidelines without
prior written agreement by the Bank. These guidelines are specified in Annex 2 of the
attached Technical Report.
(b)   Annual Work Programs. For the duration of project supervision, PROFONANPE will
send to the Bank for comment its annual work programs prior to Board approval and no
later than November 15 of each year;
(c)   Procurement. In the context of the annual work program, PROFONANPE will submit
to the Bank a procurement program, which is in compliance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines;
(d)   Annual Progress Reports. For the duration of project supervision, PROFONANPE
will submit to the Bank annual progress reports (which include the monitoring indicators
specified in Annex 6 of the attached Technical Report), by April 1 in a format
satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)   Technical Committee (TC). Within six months of effectiveness of the project,
PROFONANPE will have constituted the TC and sent to the Bank for review a surmnary
of the qualifications of each member. Within one year of project effectiveness, the TC
will have prepared the project's Monitoring and Evaluation guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 7 -
(f)   Administrative Costs. PROFONANPE's administrative costs for 1995 will not exceed
US$150,000 per year, and will not grow by more than five percent per year, except as
may otherwise be approved by the Bank on the basis of increases of the resources of the
trust fund or other funds administered by PROFONANPE.
(g)   Mid-term Project review. PROFONANPE will join the Bank on a mid-term project
review at the end of 1997 to evaluate its implementation arrangements, its on-the-ground
effectiveness in the protected areas themselves, and the performance of the asset
manager. This review would serve to fine-tune the project and determine any needed
modifications; evaluate investment performance; serve as the launching point for the
concerted fund-raising effort to increase the trust fund's capital;
(h)   Auditing. PROFONANPE will contract the services of an independent auditing firm to
carry out an annual audit of the finances of the project and of the trust fund. The
auditors will review the project's financial records to determine if the actual expenditures
match the approved work program and if satisfactory procedures of record-keeping are
being used. The auditor's report will be forwarded to the Bank no later than four
months after the close of PROFONANPE's fiscal year.
(i)   Implementation Completion Report. PROFONANPE will prepare an Implementation
Completion Report within three months of the end of the Bank's supervision period.
Sinhce the project has no finite time frame, the Implementation Completion Report will
relate to implementation performance during the length of the Bank's supervision period.
(j)   Information Access. The Bank will retain the right to request any information, even
beyond its formal involvement with the project, which would serve to evaluate the long-
term effectiveness of the trust fund mechanism.
Prior to effectiveness:
(a)   Legal Opinions. The Bank would require satisfactory legal opinions on the validity of
the Grant and Project Agreements; and
(b)   Contract Between PROFONANPE and the Asset Manager. The Bank would require
a signed contract between PROFONANPE and the investment manager satisfactory to
the Bank.
22.  Enviromnental Aspects. The project is classified as "C," which means that no negative
environmental impact is expected. The project's primary objectives focus on environmental
protection and should result in stronger in-country capability to manage protected areas and
biodiversity. No resettlement will take place under this project, nor does the list of eligible activities
to be funded under the project include resettlement.
23.  Participatory Approach. This project was prepared with the active participation of seven
Peruvian NGO's, which were involved in the definition of all aspects of the project, including the
drafting of FONANPE's by-laws. Local communities would be intrinsically involved in the project,
as well. First, in light of the project's commitment to the principle of local participation in
conservation, decisions about the allocation of resources within each protected area would be made in



consultation with each protected area's administrative officer, local committees (where they exist),
park officers, grassroots organizations and local communities. Second, among the activities eligible
for financing under the project is the implementation of projects that integrate conservation and
development to benefit the communities living in the protected areas and their buffer zones. To the
degree that a local community is interested in pursuing funding for a given project, it would be in a
position to propose the inclusion of that activity in the annual work program for the park. Similarly,
NGO's would be eligible to propose projects for inclusion in the annual work program so they may
continue carrying out their work on behalf of the park and the park's neighbors. Third, projects in
the area of environmental education and public awareness would be eligible to be financed by the
program. Such projects could help foster a common understanding of the goals of the park between
the park managers and the local communities. Fourth, park guards and other workers hired under the
project are likely to be recruited from the Lommunities adjacent to the parks, and so local people
could benefit from the improved employment opportunities.
24.  Benefits. A few carefully selected and properly managed conservation areas in Peru would
guarantee the survival of a representative, ecologically viable sample of Peru's diverse flora and
fauna. The project will provide a mechanism to: (i) secure improved and sustained management of
these conservation areas, and (ii) promote long-term strategic planning for the protection of
biodiversity in the country. If successful, the institutional arrangements of the project will catalyze
other resources for biodiversity conservation. Once the trust fund reaches its target of US$40
million, it would provide sufficient resources to afford basic management to all of Peru's protected
areas.
25.  Risks. The project faces the following risks: first, annual fluctuations in the rate of return of
the portfolio may result in a reduction of the income available for project funding from one year to
the next. Like all investments, the return each year will depend on market conditions, which are hard
to predict at any given point. If the returns fall below five percent over the first few years, however,
the program will have to be scaled down accordingly. The risk will diminish over the years as a
cushion is built-up based on a spending rule which would reserve "excess" profits from higher return
years to be used in lower return years. This cushion will be built by using a spending rule which
limits the expenditures of the trust to at most five percent of the value of the fund's assets for the first
three years, and at a rate not to exceed five percent of the three-year moving average value of the
account assets subsequently. A second risk is that PROFONANPE's Board may be ineffective in its
oversight of the fund's expenditures. This risk is minimized given the mixed composition of the
Board, which embodies a variety of interests and levels of commitment. The third risk is that given
the overwhelming pressures on the natural resources of the country, it is possible that despite all
efforts, the project will be unsuccessful in stopping outside encroachment and damage to the protected
areas. This risk will be reduced to the degree that the project involves local populations in the
judicious management of the park through economic incentives and increased awareness of the
importance of sustainably using the park's resources. Finally, there is some risk that the trust fund
will not be able to catalyze more funds, and hence the level of disbursements for conservation



activities would be relatively low. This, however, is unlikely, as several contributions from
international donors are already under negotiations and it is highly probable that at least some of these
will come to fruition. In any case, even if no additional donations are obtained for the trust fund, the
level of resources going to protected areas via the GEF contribution already doubles the annual
amount the government is currently spending in the protected areas.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 20 1995



- 10 -
Schedule A
PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$ '000) I/
For Years 1-5 of the Project
Project Component            Local   |  Foreign   |  Total  | As % of
Expenditures  Expenditures j _      Base Costs
Endowment of FONANPE                           5,000      5,000         79
Management of Selected Protected    711                    711          11
Areas
Project Coordinating Unit           650                    650          10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      1,361       5,000      6,361        100
The costs presented above are based on a total amount available for the five-year pilot phase of
the project amounting to US$1,361,000. This sum represents the expected net return from the
investment of the US$5.0 million capital of the fund. The figures above were computed based on the
spending rule described in Annex 2 of the attached Technical Report, and are limited to the resources
which are pledged to date. As new resources are obtained, the program will be expanded
accordingly, based on the priorities established by the Board of Directors and in accordance with the
National Strategy for the Conservation and Management of Peru's Protected Areas.
1/    No physical or price contingencies are included as the investments will be limited to the amount of
money available to the program each year.



Schedule B
PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Given the unique nature of this project, the standard procurement arrangements would not be
meaningful, since the exact project activities cannot be predicted beforehand. Procurement concerns
would be minimal, however, since expenditures deriving from this grant are not expected to exceed
US$300,000 per year. Expenditures would involve mainly salaries, maintenance materials for park
infrastructure, and minor equipment. To ensure compliance with Bank procedures, PROFONANPE
will prepare for review by the Bank, a specific procurement program in the context of its annual
operating plan, based on the following guidelines: Civil works under the project would be small and
geographically dispersed. They would include small civil works such as the construction of park
guard posts. Since the largest contract is not expected to exceed US$300,000, it is unlikely that
foreign contractors would be interested. Civil works contracts up to US$300,000 would be procured
using local shopping procedures (obtaining at least three quotations from any eligible contractor).
Contracts for goods are not expected to exceed US$50,000 per contract, and would be awarded
through local or international shopping. Contracts for civil works above US$300,000 and contracts
for goods above US$50,000, would be awarded in consultation with the Bank in accordance with
procedures to be agreed upon in each case. The selection and appointment of consultants would be
made in accordance with the August 1981 Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. Contracts with consulting firms valued at
US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review (terms of reference, letter of invitation,
recommendation for award and proposed contract). For individual consultants, prior Bank review
(terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of employment) would be required for contracts
valued at US$20,000 or more. Below these limits, the Bank's prior review would apply only to terms
of reference. The use of standard documentation for the employment of consultants (letters of
invitation and forms of contract) would be agreed with PROFONANPE.
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of GET Grant
(US$ '000)
World Bank       FY95        FY96         FY97      FY98             FY99
Fiscal Year
Annual         5.0           0           0             0            0
Cumulative       5.0          5.0         5.0           5.0          5.0



- 12 -
Schedule C
PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
Timetable of key project processing events
Time Taken to Prepare:            31 months (December 1991 to June 1994)
Prepared By:                      Ministry of Agriculture, PROFONANPE, and the NGO
Working Group in support of PROFONANPE
World Bank: Claudia Alderman (LA1RF), Rudolf Van
Puymbroeck (LEGLA), Alberto Ninio (LEGEN).
First Bank Mission:               December 1991
Appraisal Mission Departure:      July 1994
Date of Negotiations:             January 1995
Planned Date of Effectiveness:    April 1995
Summary Supervision Plan:         Given the open-ended nature of the proposed project, and the
practical difficulty of continuing supervision into the indefinite
future, it is expected that supervision would take place for
three to five years. The decision concerning the termination
or extension of supervision beyond five years will be based on
the Bank's examination of project performance, specifically,
by evaluating whether the project has met its objectives. The
criteria which will be used to evaluate the success of the
project can be found in Annex 6. The Bank and
PROFONANPE would jointly conduct a mid-term review to
evaluate the project implementation arrangements and its
effectiveness in the protected areas themselves. This review
would serve to fine-tune the project and serve as the launching
point for the concerted fund-raising effort to increase the trust
fund's capital. Technical expertise: institutional specialist,
ecologist, social scientist, financial analyst.



Part II: Technical Annexes






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=New Sol
US$1.0 = 0.4576 New Soles
US$1.0 = 1.6044 Deutsche Mark
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
DGAPFS               Directorate General of Protected Areas and Wildlife (Direccion General de
Areas Protegidas y Fauna Silvestre)
FONANPE              Trust Fund for the Conservation of Peru's Protected Areas
(Fondo Nacional para Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
GET                  Global Environment Trust
GOP                  Government of Peru
GTZ                  Deutsche Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
INRENA               National Institute of Natural Resources
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PROFONANPE           The entity created as a not-for-profit entity of public interest but under private
law to administer the assets of PROFONANPE (Pro Fondo Nacional para
Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
SINANPE              National System of Natural Areas Protected by the State (Sistema Nacional de
Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado)
TC                   Technical Committee
April 19, 1995 2:18pm






PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
PART II: TECHNICAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I. BACKGROUND AND COUNTRY SETTING  ..............................                                                                                             -
Introduction ..................................................   -
Legislation, Policy, and  Institutional Framework    ......................... 2.                                                               -
II. THE  PROJECT    ................................................                                                                                   . 4-
Project Objectives    .............................................                                                                               -
Project Description   .............................................                                                                               -
Project Components    ...........................................                                                                    5.      -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ..................................  6-
Project Costs and  Financing    ...................................... 6.                                                                    6  -
Procurement ..................................................   -
Disbursement   ................................................                                                                              7 -
Accounts and  Auditing  ..........................................                                                                   7.      7 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .....................8.    -
Board  of Directors   ............................................                                                                    8.        -
Project Coordinating  Unit (PCU)   ................................... 8.      -
Technical Committee  ...........................................                                                                      8.      8 -
Bylaws  ....................................................     -
Annual Work  Programs and  Progress Reports   ............................                                                                        -
Asset Management Arrangements and  Investment Guidelines.                                           ....9.............                       9  -
Project Supervision ............................................. 10 -
Program   Monitoring   ............................................   10 -
Reporting  Requirements  ..........................................-  10 -
Mid-term   Review    ..............................................-  10 -
Implementation  Completion  Report  ...................................-  10 -
Annex  1: Summary  of Peru's Protected  Areas   ................................-  11  -
Annex  2: Financial Analysis and  Management   ................................-  13 -
Annex  3: Description  of the GTZ-Financed  Program    ............................-  19 -
Annex 4: Description of the Protected Areas Supported Under the Trust Fund  ............                                                           - 20 -
Annex 5: Terms of Reference for the Technical Committee of PROFONANPE ............                                                                 - 24 -
Annex 6: Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................... 25 -
Annex 7: Project Eligibility and Selection Criteria ............................. 28 -
Annex  8: PROFONANPE's  Administrative Costs   ..............................- 31  -
Annex 9: Selected Documents Available in Project File .......................... 32 -






PERU
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
TECHNICAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND AND COUNTRY SEITING
1.         Introduction. The Government of Peru (GOP) is committed to developing innovative
mechanisms which would guarantee the appropriate management of the country's protected areas and
biodiversity. To this end, in 1992, the GOP created the Fondo Nacional para Areas Protegidas por el
Estado (FONANPE), as a trust fund to provide long-term, sustained funding for Peru's protected
areas. At the same time, the Government created PROFONANPE as a private, not-for-profit
institution charged with managing the trust fund. PROFONANPE is governed by a Board of
Directors which includes representatives from the government, the NGO community and international
cooperation agencies. The Board composition reflects a decision on the part of the GOP to forge a
partnership between the public and private sectors for the management of Peru's protected areas.
2.         The Country Setting. With a surface area of 1.28 million square kilometers, Peru is
the third largest country in South America, and the largest in the tropical Andean region. The
country is divided into three geographical zones -- coast, sierra and selva. Within the three zones
there is a large array of habitat types which can be classified into 11 eco-regions, 16 biogeographical
provinces, and 101 life zones and transitions. This habitat diversity has resulted in one of the greatest
varieties of flora and fauna on Earth.
3.         Flora and Fauna. Peru ranks as one of the biologically most important countries in
South America, and among the handful of megadiversity countries in the world. It contains a higher
proportion of the species-rich forests of Western Amazonia and the tropical Andes than any other
country. Peru has an estimated 18 percent of the bird species, 9 percent of the mammals, and 7
percent of the amphibians in the world (see Table 1). Two of its large protected areas, Manu
Biosphere Reserve and Tambopata-Candamo Reserved Zone, contain the world's highest recorded
diversities for birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, freshwater fishes, all vascular plants, trees,
butterflies, and invertebrates. Endemism (i.e. species unique to Peru) for vertebrate species is also
extremely high. A study in 1987 by Brack recorded the following number of endemic species: 50
fish species, 90 bird species, 35 mammalian species, 69 species of reptiles and 28 species of
amphibians. There is little doubt that with additional field work this list would increase substantially.
The richest concentrations of species and endemism occur in the eastern Andean slopes because of
their high year-round rainfall and relatively fertile soils. The Peruvian Amazon also contains an
extraordinary assemblage of species: in the Iquitos area in northern Peru, for example, a single
hectare of tropical rain forest has been found to contain 300 species of trees, by far the highest
heterogeneity on Earth.
TABLE 1
Percent of Total Neotropical and World
Species Found in Peru
Taxonomic         No.         % of      % of World
Group       Species in   Neotropics
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   P er-u   _ _ _ _
Mammals                359           29            9
Birds                 1680           44           18
Reptiles               298           12            5
Amphibians             241           13            7
Vascular Plants     30,000           20            8



4.          Peru's Natural Resource Base. Peru has been and will continue to be dependent upon its
natural resources for social and economic development. There are many potential timber and non-
timber products which, if properly developed through sound and sustainable practices, could serve
significantly to increase the income and well-being of rural and urban communities throughout the
Amazon region and other parts of the country.
5.         The importance of Peru's biodiversity on a global scale cannot be overstated. Peruvian
germplasm has played a substantial role in agricultural innovations in the past, and today is critical to
plant production research around the world. Potatoes, tomatoes, beans, peanuts, guava, peppers,
squash, varieties of corn and many other forest and animal products are native to and abundant in
Peru and have figured prominently in the Peruvian diet for thousands of years. There is little if any
current research, however, on the vast majority of Peru's native tropical plants and food crops, nor
are there data on the demand and supply of these products for national and international food markets.
6.          Approximately 60 percent of Peru is covered by forest, with the Amazonian region
consisting mainly of tall, moist tropical forests. These species-rich forests provide an untapped
resource for the social and economic improvement of communities in the Peruvian Amazon and in
other rural and urban areas of Peru, as well as in other countries. For example, medicinal plants
such as cinchona (for quinine) and curare (used in heart surgery) have assumed worldwide
importance. New plants of medicinal importance are continually being discovered, with many coming
from the traditional knowledge held by indigenous peoples in Peru's lowland selva.
7.         Legislation, Policy, and Institutional Framework. In late 1990, the Peruvian
Congress passed an environmental code that contains several important conservation provisions. The
code took the positive step of abolishing legislation which provided incentives for colonizing
Amazonia. Furthermore, the code requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement for
any activity in Amazonia -- whether public or private. From 1993 through 1994, additional
legislation was passed requiring environmental impact studies for investments in the development of
mining, industry and fishing.
8.         Despite these legislative efforts, however, Peru may have difficulty easing the pressures
on its natural resources. After a decade of severe economic and political crisis, Peru is significantly
reformulating its policies, setting the stage for economic recovery. It has already succeeded in
dramatically reducing the inflation and terrorist activity that crippled the nation until very recently.
These changes have already resulted in a substantial increase of tourists and will imply a large influx
of tourists within the next few years and, more importantly, a substantial increase in investments to
exploit Peru's natural resources (in particular timber, petroleum, natural gas and gold reserves). If
not managed, these activities pose real threats to the conservation of the country's biological wealth.
Additionally, in spite of probable improvements in rural living conditions, the government may be
unable to slow the surge of settlement of the Amazonian lowlands as peasants try to escape the
pervasive poverty in the highlands.
9.          Despite these problems, however, Peru has managed to set aside major parks covering a
variety of ecosystems. Indeed, some of the parks, such as Manu, protect a contiguous range of
habitats -- from lowland forests to cloud forests at 14,000 feet, and highland puna grasslands. Many
of these parks, although potentially "islands," are sufficiently large to minimize the risk of local
species becoming extinct. Encouragingly, moreover, the legislation related to protected areas in Peru
is comprehensive and sound. In 1990, the National System of Natural Areas Protected by the State
(SINANPE) was created by Presidential Decree. Totalling 5.5 million hectares, the system
encompasses 7 national parks, 8 national reserves, 2 hunting reserves, 7 national sanctuaries and 3
historic sanctuaries. These protected areas, in combination with 5 national forests, 6 protected forests



and I communal reserve, cover over six percent of the national territory. A list of all Peru's
protected areas, including their location and size can be found in Annex 1. In 1993 the government
created the National Institute of Natural Resources (INRENA), which brings together the expertise of
all public agencies involved with the management and conservation of Peru's renewable natural
resources.
10.         Peru's legislative and institutional efforts notwithstanding, the GOP has been unable to
devote sufficient resources to its conservation areas. Only four national parks receive any
management services through INRENA. Even when some resources are devoted to an area, they are
insufficient: Machu Picchu, for example, which benefits from the strongest management of any unit
in the system, continues to experience management problems due to the large number of visitors as
compared to availability of park guards and visitors' services. Park staff, from guards to office
administrators, frequently are inadequately trained. The lack of adequate staff stifles the parks'
potential for conservation, research, recreation and revenue generation. The 1991 Tropical Forestry
Action Plan reports that the park system employs 110 park guards for 5.5 million hectares, or one
guard per 50,000 hectares2/. This index is only one among many that may be construed to indicate
the severe deficiency of administrative and managerial inputs. To make matters worse, in 1992 a
significant portion of these guards left their jobs due to termination of contracts, low morale and lack
of resources. With the Government absent from the parks, most of the limited management in a few
protected areas is carried out by Peruvian NGOs. The level of management provided varies,
however, from area to area and from time to time depending on the financial situation of the NGO(s)
involved. Only recently has INRENA started to hire new personnel for the park system, though
under very restricted conditions.
2/ IUCN recommends as a general guideline a figure of I park guard per 5,000 ha. for park and reserves with
dense forest systems. According to the objectives of the area, however, these figures may vary. Machu
Picchu, a well visited tourist attraction, probably needs a higher number of guards than the IUCN
recommendation. Other areas such as Manu and Tambopata Candamo probably need less as access is difficult
and can be better controlled than areas with well-developed road systems.



- 4 -
11. THE PROJECT
11.         Project Objectives. The project has four major objectives, to: (i) provide a long term
and predictable source of funding for the protection of Peru's biodiversity through the establishment
of a trust fund for the benefit of Peru's protected areas, the income of which would be used for
financing the management of priority protected areas; (ii) improve INRENA's capacity to protect and
manage Peru's protected areas; (iii) provide the country with a reliable institutional mechanism to
channel debt donations for sustainable development and conservation through bilateral and commercial
debt-for-nature swap agreements; and (iv) test the viability of trust funds as mechanisms for providing
long term and sustainable funding for biodiversity conservation.
12.         Project Description. The Fondo Nacional para Areas Protegidas por el Estado
(FONANPE), was created by the GOP as a trust fund with the goal of providing long-term, sustained
funding for Peru's protected areas. At the same time, PROFONANPE was established under private
law as a not-for-profit institution to manage FONANPE and to direct the use of the investment
proceeds. In anticipation of the GEF grant, and on the bases established by the preparation of this
project, PROFONANPE started operating in June 1993 under a grant from the German technical
cooperation agency, the "Deutsche Gesellschaftfllr Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GTZ)."
During its first year, PROFONANPE has strengthened itself as an organization by conducting an
institutional strategic planning exercise involving a dozen NGO's, developed criteria for managing its
small grants program and issued requests for proposals, and negotiated Peru's first debt-for-nature
swap.
13.         To support PROFONANPE, the Global Environment Trust (GET) would provide
US$5.0 million as seed money for the Peruvian trust fund. In keeping with the GEF's goal of using
its resources to leverage additional funds, the GET grant is being complemented by a separate parallel
grant of US$1.5 million from the GTZ. While the German grant does not form part of the capital of
the trust fund per se, this contribution will help to consolidate and strengthen the GOP's capacity to
coordinate all Peruvian conservation efforts and will lay the basis for the conservation activities
supported by the trust fund. Moreover, GTZ's contribution will provide essential operational funds
during the pilot phase of PROFONANPE until the trust fund reaches a sufficient size to sustainably
finance the project activities with its income.
14.         The GET grant would be placed in FONANPE, a trust fund legislatively established in
Peru. The fund's assets would be managed by a Peruvian investment Bank, according to investment
objectives and guidelines specified in the Project Agreement. These guidelines would specify the
investment risk profile and the acceptable trade-offs between growth of the total value of the
investment capital and the stability of annual income flows. Part of the investment income generated
each year would be spent to finance conservation activities in Peru, while a predetermined amount of
the income would be reinvested to maintain the real value of the principal. A discussion on the
Peruvian capital markets, the process used to select the asset manager, investment guidelines and
expected returns can be found in Annex 2.
15.         The by-laws governing the operation of FONANPE were drafted by a working group
comprised of representatives from the GOP and from seven Peruvian conservation NGOs 3/. This
3/    The Peruvian NGOS participating in the project preparation working group were the following: Asociacion para la Conservacion de
la Selva Sur, Amazonia, Asociacion Peruana de Conservacion, Centro de Datos para la Conservacion, Fundacion Peruana para la
Conservacion de la Naturaleza, Sociedad Pachamama, Sociedad Peruana de Derecho Ambiental. In addition, representatives from The
Nature Conservancy and Conservation International also contributed to the preparation of the project.



group also developed criteria for selecting the protected areas which would be initially supported by
the project. These criteria include: (i) the global importance of the area for biodiversity
conservation, in terms of species diversity and endemism; (ii) the relative feasibility of management;
and (iii) the degree of environmental impact resulting from human activity. Although several
protected areas meet these criteria, given resource constraints, three priority areas were selected for
initial support by the trust fund: Manu National Park and Biosphere Reserve, Rio Abiseo National
Park, and Noroeste Biosphere Reserve (composed of the Cerros the Amotape National Park, Coto de
Caza el Angolo, Tumbes National Forest and Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary). A
description of each area, including planned interventions and results, can be found in Annex 4. As
FONANPE's capital increases through additional contributions, other protected areas will be
integrated into the program, based on the criteria described above as well as the guidelines of the
National System of Protected Areas Master Plan, and the National Strategy for the Conservation and
Management of Peru's Protected Areas, currently under development.
16.        Project Components. The proceeds of the GET grant during the five-year pilot phase
of the project would be used to finance a variety of conservation activities in the selected areas and
their buffer zones. Annex 7 summarizes project eligibility and selection criteria. The activities
eligible for funding include:
*    Financing the recurrent costs of protected area management (mainly staff salaries and operating
expenses)
*    Drafting, revising and implementing management plans
*    Establishing and managing buffer zones
*    Training professionals in park and wildlife management
*    Instituting environmental education and public awareness programs for communities associated
with protected areas
*    Implementing projects that integrate conservation and development to benefit the communities
living in the protected areas and their buffer zones
*    Institutional support for the strengthening of the field work of INRENA's Directorate General
of National Protected Areas and Wildlife
*    Administrative expenses of PROFONANPE.
17.        GTZ Funded Activities: The complementary activities financed separately by the GTZ
include: (i) support to INRENA in the form of infrastructure, equipment and training; (ii)
development of a master plan for the management of all protected areas in the country; (iii) hiring of
consultants to provide technical support to INRENA; (iv) institution building and operational costs of
PROFONANPE; and (v) a two-year program of small grants for NGOs to support sustainable
development and conservation projects. A detailed description of the GTZ project activities can be
found in Annex 3.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
18.        Project Costs and Financing. Expected expenditures over the five years of Bank
involvement amount to US$1,361,000 equivalent, which represents the projected net income of the
trust fund for that period of time. The GET initial contribution of US$5.0 million will serve to
capitalize the fund, while the separate GTZ contribution amounting to US$1.5 million would provide
funds for operating costs in the first year of the program. Although the GTZ contribution will not
form part of the investment capital of the trust fund per se, this donation serves the key function of
providing the up-front financing needed to lay the basis for the conservation activities supported by
PROFONANPE in ensuing years.
19.        Initial donations by the Canadian International Development Agency provided
PROFONANPE with office space and fully equipped offices in Lima. The operating costs of
PROFONANPE, which approximate US$150,000 per year, are being covered in their totality by the
GTZ grant for the first year of the project. After this time, administrative costs would be covered out
of the trust fund's income, or by other donors. Consistent with the experience of other small trust
funds, such as the ones in Bhutan and Uganda, the administrative costs for the first few years of the
project constitute a relatively high percentage of the total income of the fund. As the trust fund
grows, however, the ratio of administrative costs to income available for program activities would
decline. In this particular case, as the trust reaches its expected level of capitalization of at least
US$40 million, the administrative costs will represent under 10 percent of net income. Assuming that
PROFONANPE reaches its capitalization goal by raising an additional US$5 million the first year,
US$7 million the second year, US$8 million the third year, and US$7.5 million each in years 4 and
5, the respective administrative cost ratios would be 0%, 29%, 17%, 11 % and 9% for years one
through five of the project. Regardless of the level of capitalization of the fund, however, the Project
Agreement specifies that PROFONANPE's administrative costs for 1995 will not exceed US$150,000
per year, and will not grow by more than five percent per year thereafter, without explicit consent of
the Bank (see Annex 7 for a detailed table of PROFONANPE's expenses).
20.        Expenditure amounts are based on the assumption that the trust fund does not receive
any additional contributions. To put this "worst case" scenario in perspective, however, it is useful to
realize that even this limited level of funding would result in a threefold increase to the resources
currently allocated by the government to protected areas. As new resources are obtained,
PROFONANPE's program will be expanded accordingly, based on the priorities established by the
Board of Directors and in accordance with the National Strategy for the Conservation and
Management of Peru's Protected Areas. Specific details on PROFONANPE's spending rule, financial
arrangements and projections are described in Annex 2.
21.        The specific allocation of funds generated by the trust's investments will be determined
by PROFONANPE's Board of Directors, based on work programs submitted by the selected protected
areas. For the duration of the project supervision period, the Bank will have the opportunity to
comment on the work programs, prior to PROFONANPE's Board approval.
22.        PROFONANPE has set a target of US$40 million of principal for the trust fund. It has
already begun efforts to raise these funds both from direct contributions and as debt-for-nature-swaps.
As its first fund-raising success, PROFONANPE has negotiated the first ever debt-for-nature
transaction in Peru through a bilateral debt donation from Canada for Can$ 500,000. Germany and
Finland have committed additional bilateral debt donations to be channelled through PROFONANPE.
Formal commitments to channel additional funds for park conservation projects have been recently
made by the Amazon Cooperation Treaty, and the Dutch Technical Aid agency. Also, negotiations



are under way for a second tranche of support from Germany for an additional US$1.5 million. To
tap local resources, PROFONANPE will invite carefully selected, influential individuals interested in
Peruvian environmental affairs to join an informal board or patronato. While the group will have no
effective power, it is expected that the group will help mobilize local and international resources
particularly in the private sector. Finally, after the project's mid-term evaluation, PROFONANPE
and the government will organize a round table of donors to help reach the target amount of US$40
million for the trust fund.
23.        Procurement. Given the unique nature of this project, the standard procurement
arrangements would not be meaningful, since the exact project activities cannot be predicted
beforehand. Procurement concerns would be minimal, however, since expenditures deriving from
this grant are not expected to exceed US$300,000 per year. Expenditures would involve mainly
salaries, maintenance materials for park infrastructure, and minor equipment. To ensure compliance
with Bank procedures, PROFONANPE will prepare for review by the Bank, a specific procurement
program in the context of its annual operating plan, based on the guidelines following guidelines:
Civil works under the project would be small and geographically dispersed. They would include
small civil works such as the construction of park guard posts. Since the largest contract is not
expected to exceed US$300,000, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested. Civil
works contracts up to US$300,000 would be procured using local shopping procedures (obtaining at
least three quotations from any eligible contractor). Contracts for goods are not expected to exceed
US$50,000 per contract, and would be awarded through local or international shopping. Contracts
for civil works above US$300,000 and contracts for goods above US$50,000, would be awarded in
consultation with the Bank in accordance with procedures to be agreed upon in each case. The
selection and appointment of consultants would be made in accordance with the August 1981
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency. Contracts with consulting firms valued at US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior
Bank review (terms of reference, letter of invitation, recommendation for award and proposed
contract). For individual consultants, prior Bank review (terms of reference, qualifications and
conditions of employment) would be required for contracts valued at US$20,000 or more. Below
these limits, the Bank's prior review would apply only to terms of reference. The use of standard
documentation for the employment of consultants (letters of invitation and forms of contract) would
be agreed with PROFONANPE.
24.        Disbursement. The total grant amount would be disbursed in one lump sum to the trust
fund established in Peru as specified in the Grant Agreement. The asset manager would make
quarterly wire transfers of the trust's income (within the limits established by the spending rule) to
PROFONANPE's dollar-denominated account in Peru. PROFONANPE's coordinator would be
authorized to make payments to suppliers or consultants in accordance with requests submitted by the
managers of the selected protected areas, based on the expenditures specified in the annual work
program approved by PROFONANPE's Board of Directors, and reviewed by the Bank. In
accordance with PROFONANPE's operating procedures the funds received from each donor will be
maintained in separate accounts.
25.        Accounts and Auditing. PROFONANPE's Board would contract the services of an
independent auditing firm to carry out an annual audit of the finances of the project and of the trust
fund. The auditors will review the project's financial records to determine if the expenditures match
the approved work program and if satisfactory procedures of record-keeping are being used. The
auditor's report will be forwarded by PROFONANPE to the Bank no later than four months after the
close of PROFONANPE's fiscal year. To ensure adequate record-keeping procedures, a management
services consulting firm developed written procedures and guidelines for financial accounting
specifically suited to the project. (Refer to the Manual of Norms and Procedures for



- 8 -
PROFONANPE, January 1994, and the Manual of Organization, Functions and Policies for
PROFONANPE, January 1994, in the project files). As part of the assignment, this firm also
provided training to the project coordinator to ensure that the guidelines were clearly understood and
correctly implemented. This preparatory work should facilitate the subsequent work of the auditors,
and ensure transparency, comprehensiveness and accuracy in record keeping.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
26.        Board of Directors. PROFONANPE is governed by a Board of Directors, composed as
follows: three representatives from the Peruvian government, three representatives from Peruvian
conservation NGOs elected by the Peruvian Environmental Network, (initially, the Sociedad
Pachamama, Sociedad Peruana de Derecho Ambiental, and Desarrollo Comunitario) and a
representative from an international cooperation agency (initially, the GTZ). One of the government
representatives will assume chairmanship of the Board. The Board responsibilities will include: (i)
approving the annual work programs and budgets; (ii) reviewing the reports of the project
coordinator, protected area managers, and auditors; (iii) dealing with policy issues; (iv) carrying out
other responsibilities as specified in PROFONANPE's bylaws.
27.        Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). Project management and administration will be
carried out by a PCU under the leadership of the Project Coordinator, who is appointed by the Board.
The project coordinator will be responsible for: (i) day-to-day management and administration of
PROFONANPE's activities 4/; (ii) ensuring that all accounting and records are kept according to
established procedures; (iii) preparing the annual analysis of needs and requirements for each
protected area and the corresponding work program, in coordination with INRENA; (iv) oversight of
implementation, reporting and evaluation; (v) reporting to the Board regarding the status of project
activities; (vi) liaison and coordination between the Board of Directors, the GOP, donors, and the
technical committee; and (vii) fundraising to increase the capital of the trust.
28.        Technical Committee. The Board will be advised by a Technical Committee composed
of specialists in technical areas pertaining to the operations of PROFONANPE and program
beneficiaries. It shall have in particular scientists and natural resource management experts
experienced in park and wildlife management, and rural development. A sub-set of the committee
will be comprised of financial experts, so as to advise PROFONANPE on financial matters. This
committee will also be responsible for developing the guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of the
project, and for providing an annual evaluation of the performance of the asset manager. The
Tecnical Committee is an additional forum in which relevant conservation NGOs may contribute
substantively to the project. Annex 5 contains the committee's terms of reference.
29.        Bylaws. The by-laws that govern the operation of PROFONANPE were approved by its
Board on December 1993. These bylaws can be found in the project files.
30.        Annual Work Programs and Progress Reports. Decisions about the allocation of
resources within each protected area will be based on an annual work program developed by the
Project Coordinator, in coordination with INRENA. The work program will reflect an analysis of the
requirements and needs of each area, and will be based on the Master Plan for the National System of
Natural Areas Protected by the State (SINANPE) and the management plan and/or operating plan of
4/   The actual day-to-day implementation of project activities would be handled by the personnel of the
protected areas themselves, INRENA, NGOs, universities, etc. as specified in the annual work plan of
each protected area.



- 9 -
each conservation unit. Given the project's commitment to the principles of local participation in
conservation decisions, the work program will be developed in consultation with each protected area's
administrative officer, local committees (where they exist), park officers, grassroots organizations and
local communities. The annual work program will include a statement of specific objectives to be
pursued during the year and the activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those objectives.
Where appropriate, work programs will designate those activities to be carried out by the Directorate
General of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DGAPFS) and those components which could be
implemented by NGOs, universities or consulting firms. The Board of PROFONANPE will send the
annual work programs to the Bank for comment no later than November 15 of each year. (See
Annex 7 for a detailed summary of project eligibility and selection criteria.)
31.        PROFONANPE's coordinator will prepare for presentation to INRENA and the Board a
report of the preceding year's activities and accomplishments. This report will assist the Board and
the TC in their evaluation of the performance of each protected area. Moreover, the report would
serve as the basis for the preparation of the progress report which the Board will present to the Bank
by April 1 of each year for the length of project supervision.
32.        Asset Management Arrangements and Investment Guidelines. The fund's assets
would be managed by a Peruvian investment bank, according to investment objectives and guidelines
specified below. These guidelines define the investment risk profile and the acceptable trade-offs
between growth of the total value of the investment capital and the stability of annual income flows.
Part of the investment income generated each year would be spent to finance conservation activities in
Peru, while a predetermined amount of the income would be reinvested to maintain the real value of
the principal. Given the project's objectives, PROFONANPE's investment strategy will seek to
maximize total return, including interest, dividends and capital appreciation, while safeguarding a
minimum level of annual income to maintain the real value of the capital and cover operating
expenses and grant commitments. PROFONANPE's initial investment guidelines are detailed in
Annex 2.
33.        Reporting Requirements for Asset Manager The investment manager will prepare
quarterly reports for PROFONANPE including a full accounting on changes in market value, total
returns and cash distributions.
34.        Performance Evaluation. For purposes of evaluating the investment manager's
performance relative to this objective, an initial benchmark of 10 percent (dollarized, nominal return)
will be used. For reference purposes, this level approximates a 500 basis point spread over the
current "tipmex" (the deposit rate on foreign exchange certificates of deposit, and a local benchmark
used for evaluating fixed income investments), and the year-to-date 1994 gain on the Lima Stock
Exchange. Following a review of the investment manager's performance in the initial two years,
another type of benchmark could be considered such as a weighted average index of the tipmex plus a
spread for the fixed income component and the official Lima Stock Exchange index for the equity
portion of the portfolio.
35.        PROFONANPE's financial experts appointed to its technical committee will conduct an
annual evaluation of the investment performance. While the Peruvian market is anticipated to yield
satisfactory results over the next few years, these high returns may not be sustainable over the long
term. The Board of Directors will therefore reserve the right to reconsider alternative investment
management options, including offshore markets, and if necessary will make adjustments under terms
of reference satisfactory to the World Bank.



- 10 -
36.        Project Supervision. Given the open-ended nature of the proposed project, and the
practical difficulty of continuing supervision into the indefinite future, it is expected that supervision
would take place for three to five years. The decision concerning the termination or extension of
supervision beyond five years will be based on the Bank's examination of project performance,
specifically, by evaluating whether the project has met its objectives. The impact of the project on
the protected areas will be evaluated against the baseline information collected during project
preparation and summarized in the background paper on each of the selected areas titled: "Informe
sobre las Areas Protegidas Seleccionadas para Apoyo por el GEF." The criteria which will be used
to evaluate the success of the project as a whole can be found in Annex 6.
37.        Program Monitoring. The goals of monitoring and evaluation for the project are: (i)
to evaluate the long-term effectiveness of the private trust fund mechanism for biodiversity
conservation; (ii) to determine the optimal institutional, legal and financial arrangements for such a
mechanism; and (iii) to evaluate what can be "bought" in terms of biodiversity conservation (and
institutional capacity-building) by the trust fund. The success of the project is measured ultimately in
biodiversity protection, while satisfactory institutional and legal arrangements and asset performance
are only means to this end. A description of the proposed monitoring and evaluation arrangements
and indicators is found in Annex 6.
38.        Reporting Requirements. Prior to the Board's approval of the annual work programs,
PROFONANPE will provide the Bank with the opportunity for review and comment. In addition,
PROFONANPE will submit an annual project progress report by April 1 each year. This report will
include the reports prepared by each protected area manager summarizing the preceding year's
activities and accomplishments, as well as an overall evaluation of the operation of the program.
39.        Mid-term Review. PROFONANPE and the Bank would conduct a mid-term review at
the end of 1997 to evaluate its implementation arrangements, its on-the-ground effectiveness in the
protected areas themselves, and the performance of the asset manager. This review would serve three
functions: (i) fine-tune the project and determine any needed modifications; (ii) evaluate investment
performance; and (iii) serve as the launching point for the concerted fund-raising effort to increase the
trust fund's capital. Furthermore, if the mid-term review shows a clear accomplishment of the project
objectives, it would provide interested but presently cautious donors with specific evidence of the
merits of environmental trust funds.
40.        Implementation Completion Report. Given that the Bank will make a one time
disbursement, the project closing date (the latest date in which the GOP may withdraw the proceeds
of the grant) will be defined as one year from the date of effectiveness. The Grant and Project
Agreements will have a duration of twenty five years. PROFONANPE will prepare an
Implementation Completion Report within three months of the end of the Bank's supervision period.
Since the trust fund has no finite time frame, the Implementation Completion Report will relate to
implementation performance during the length of the Bank's supervision period.



-11-                                                         ANNEX 1
Annex 1: Summary of Peru's Protected Areas
by Category, Location, Year Established, Surface Area and IUCN Category
Category                            Location             Year      Area (Ha.)              91UCN Category
National Parks
P.N. CUTERVO                               Cjamurca                       1961        2,500.0    D National Park
P.N. CERROS DE AMOTAPE                     Tumbes. Piura                  1975       91,300.0    H National Park
P.N. HUASCARAN                             Ancash                         1975      340,000.0    U National Park
P.N. MANU                                  Madre de Dioa, Cuzco           1973    1,532,806.0    U National Park
P.N. RIO ABISEO                            San Martin                     1983      274,520.0    U  National Park
P.N. IINGO MARIA                           Huanuco                        1965       18,000.0    U National Park
P.N. YANACHAGA                             Pasco                          1986      122,000.0    D  National Park
National Reserves
RN. JUNIN                                 Junin                           1974       53,000.0    I Strict Nature Rearve
RN. LACHAY                                 lima                           1977        5,070.0   IV  Managed Nature Reaerve
RN. PARACAS                                Iea                            1975      335,000.0   IV  Managed Nature Reaerve
RN. PAMPA GALERAS                          Ayacucho                       1967        6,500.0   IV  Managed Nature Reserve
RN. TITICACA                               Pino                           1978       36,180.0    1 StrictNatureReerne
R.N. SAIUNAS-AGUADABLANCA                  Arequipa                       1979     366,936.0   IV  Managed Nature Resere
RN. PACAYA-SAMIRIA                         Loreto                         1972    ,800,000.0    I  Strict Nature Reserve
R.N. CALIPUY                               La Lbertad                    1981        64,000.0   IV  Managed Nature Resere
National Sanctuaries
RN. IHUAYLLAY                              Pasco                          1974        6,815.0   mI Natural Monument
S.N. CAIIPUY                               La LAbertad                    1981        4,500.0   III Natural Monument
S.N. PAMPAS DEL HEATH                      Madrede DioB                   1983      102,109.0   HI Natural Monument
S.N. LAGUNAS DE MEJIA                      Arequipa                       1984          690.6   [V  Wildlife Sanctuairy
S.N. TABACONAS-NAMBALLE                    Cajamarca                      1988       29,500.0   III Natual Monument
S.N. AMPAY                                 Apurimac                       1987        3,635.5  Im Natu-l Monument
S.N. MANGLARES DE TUMBES                   Tumbes                         1988        2,972.0   IV  Wildlife Sanctuary
Historic Sanctuaries
S.H. PAMPAS DE AYACUCHO                    Ayacucho                      1980          300.0    V   Protected Landacape
S.H. CHACAMARCA                            Junin                          1974        2,500.0    V   Protected Landacape
S.H. MACHUPICCHU                           Cuzco                         1981        32,592.0   mI  Natural Monument
National Forests
B.N. BIABO-CORDILLERA AZUL                 San Martin. Loreto, Ucayali    1963    2,068,308.5    VI] Managed Resources Area
B.N. MARISCAL CACERES                      San Martin                    1963       137,448.0    VD Managed Resources Area
B.M. PASTAZA-MORONA-MARANON                Loreto                         1963     375,000.0    VL Managed Resources Area
B.N. DE TUMBES                             Tumbes                        1957        75,102.0    VD Managed Resources Area
B.N. A. VON HUMBOLDT                       Huanuco, Ucayali               1965     570,800.0    VL3 Managed Reource Area



-12-                                                         ANNEX 1
Category                            LAcation             Year      Area (Ha.)              91UCN Calebory
Protectod Fore
B.P. ALTO MAYO                             San Maitin                     1987      182,000.0    VIl Managed Reourca Arca
B.P. DE CANEf                              limna                          1980           18.1    VIII Manged Reaowure  Are
B.P. DE PAGAIBAMBA                         Cajamarca                      1987        2,078.4    Vm3 Maaged Reaourea Area
B.P. PUI-PUI                               Junin                          1985       60,000.0    VIm Manaed Raurces Area
B.P. PUQUO SANTA ROSA                      Ia Libertad                    1982           72.5    Vm Mawged Rmources Area
B.P. SAN MAIIAS-SAN CARLOS                 Paco                           1987      145.818.0    Vm Managed Raourcn  Area
Hunfin Pracrvea
C.C. EL ANGOLO                             Piun                           1975       65,000.0    Vm Multiple Ua Managemmt AreS
C.C. SUNCHUBAMBA                           Cajamarca                      1977       59,735.0    VII Muhipke Use Mangeaaet Ana
Comunal Reserves
RC. YANESHA                                Pasco                          1988       34,744.7    VllI Mnged Rerour  Area
9 IUCN: International Union for the Conservation of Natr



-13 -                                 ANNEX 2
Annex 2: Financial Analysis and Management
Backgiround
During the preparation of this project, several options for the investment of the trust fund assets were
considered. These included establishing a trust account in the United States for the benefit of Peru's
National System of Protected Areas, or alternatively, establishing a trust fund in an offshore
jurisdiction such as the Bahamas Islands. These options were deemed unsuitable due to a number of
reasons, including the risk of attachment of the funds by creditors of the Peruvian government.
Following extensive analysis of these issues, it was determined that the optimal option from a legal
perspective was to establish the fund in Peru where FONANPE enjoys express legislative freedom
from attachment, as well as other privileges such as tax exemption, due to its not-for-profit status.
At the request of PROFONANPE's Board, a consultant undertook a thorough analysis of local
investment options in Peru, and on the basis of proposals solicited from five leading financial
institutions, prepared a recommendation for the selection of a local investment manager. The analysis
was completed on August 17, 1994 and recommended a local investment manager for
PROFONANPE. This recommendation was subsequently ratified by PROFONANPE's Board in a
meeting on August 23, 1994. The report, titled "Informe para el consejo directivo del
PROFONANPE sobre la seleccion de un banco nacional para la administracion de los fondos del
PROFONANPE en el Peru," can be found in the project's files.
Analysis of the Peruvian Capital Markets
Compared with the markets of the U.S., Europe and Japan, emerging markets are by definition less
developed and characterized by a higher degree of volatility. Due to the fact that the Peruvian stock
market has only been in full operation for a period of less than three years, a meaningful analysis of
historical results is not available at this time. Hence, the superior returns obtained to date from
emerging market instruments are based on a substantial risk premium corresponding to the high level
of volatility associated with anticipated results.
The Peruvian financial market has experienced dynamic growth over the past few years, based on
sound macroeconomic changes undertaken by the Fujimori administration and the corresponding
confidence of the international investment community. The recent enactment of a new General Law
on Banking, Financial and Insurance Institutions (Legal Decree 770) has substantially expanded and
liberalized the operations performed by the financial sector. Under this law, a national private
pension system was established, which is expected to capitalize the domestic financial markets further.
While traditional endowments and trust funds are not prevalent in Peru given the historic scarcity of
long-term capital in this market, there are several experienced local financial institutions in Peru
capable of managing the PROFONANPE trust account. The fact that the Peruvian market is largely
dollarized facilitates free monetary exchange and enhances the attractiveness of a local investment
management option.
The Lima Stock Exchange set new price, volume and market capitalization records for the third
consecutive year in 1993. During 1993, the general market index rose 91% in dollars, compared to
124% in 1992. Trading volume in stocks reached US$1.63 billion, a near four-fold increase from the
US$409 million shares traded in 1992 and significantly greater than the volume in 1991 (US$122.5
million). Market capitalization nearly doubled from US$2.6 billion at the beginning of 1993 to
US$4.9 billion by year-end 1993. Behind the market's three-year bull run were extensive market-



-14 -                                  ANNEX2
oriented structural reforms implemented since 1990, increasing the economic stability created by an
IMF-monitored structural adjustment program, and with a significantly improved investment climate
for growth. Peru's GDP rose 7% in 1993, the highest level recorded in Latin America for that year.
All of these factors have greatly improved the economic and financial outlook for Peruvian
companies, and hence their share values.
Average daily trading value levels settled at US$8 million towards the end of 1993, and are expected
to approximate US$12 million for 1994. This would take total trading to over US$3 billion in 1994,
nearly double the record pace of US$1.6 billion set in 1993. Substantial increases in trading volume
and market capitalization should continue to result from the privatization process, as it will lead to the
listing of a number of new and important companies on the exchange, including Entel
(telecommunications) and Electrolima (power utility).
Two years ago, shares traded on the Lima Exchange were substantially undervalued, accounting for
the significant share appreciation noted above. While spectacular gains are not anticipated, growth is
expected to remain strong for several years, with average dollarized annual returns (nominal) in the
15-30% range, provided political stabilization and economic reform continue.
By the end of 1994, the Lima Stock Exchange continued to set new price, volume and market
capitalization records for the fourth consecutive year. While this market did experience a lower
trading volume in the month of December, precipitated by the sharp devaluation of the Mexican peso
and subsequent capital flight from that market, weekly trading volumes appear to be stabilizing.
The fixed income market in Peru, while relatively small, is growing at a rapid pace. Traditional
money market instruments, such as commercial bank deposits, repurchase agreements, bankers'
acceptances, Central Bank Certificates of Deposit, treasury bonds and corporate bonds are currently
yielding average annual returns of 7.5-11.5% on a dollarized basis.
Financial Risks and Mitigating Factors
The financial risks to the GET grant to PROFONANPE, resulting from a concentration of
investments in Peru, have been mitigated to the fullest extent possible in the proposed investment
management arrangement, as follows:
Political Risk. Due to the legal nature of the FONANPE trust in Peru, the funds are not subject to
attachment risk, as might be the case if the funds were invested offshore or in a market where Peru's
international creditors could attempt to make a claim against these assets. In addition to attachment
risk, political risk could also arise from political uncertainties that would destabilize financial market
conditions. In the case of Peru, however, it is widely believed that regardless of the outcome of the
April elections, current economic policies will be continued. Nonetheless, to safeguard against
unanticipated risks in this capital market, the investment management agreement has been structured
such that an average of 20% of the fund's assets will be invested offshore. In the event of a political
emergency, all of the fund's assets could be transferred to this offshore account.
Investment Risk. To the extent that investments are concentrated in a single emerging market, they
may run the risk of high return fluctuations and potential loss of value. For this reason, the
investment management strategy for this account has been conservatively structured to provide for a
majority of the portfolio's assets (approximately 70%) to be invested in domestic and international
fixed income returns. As noted above, the international component of this portfolio management
arrangement provides for additional diversification into developed market securities to further reduce
the risk of single market volatility to this fund.



-15 -                                  ANNEX 2
Devaluation Risk. Emerging market investments that are denominated in local currency may run the
risk of loss of value, due to currency devaluation. However, in the case of Peru, where the capital
markets are largely dollarized, this risk is significantly mitigated. The FONANPE trust account will
be maintained in U.S. dollars and all fixed income investments will be made in local currency.
Sophisticated currency hedging techniques are not currently available in emerging markets such as
Peru. For dollar-denominated portfolios, local equity investments are denominated in local currency
and U.S. dollar equivalent market values for this component are determined using the exchange rate
in effect on the reporting or trade date (in the case of a sale transaction). Short-term currency
hedging instruments (commercial bank foreign exchange contracts) are available to protect the value
of investments from the date the trade is negotiated to the settlement date (usually a 2-3 day interval).
This technique will be used by InterBanc/Interlnvest for the FONANPE trust (associated fees are
included in the transaction cost assumptions for net return expectations). While this presents some
devaluation risk to the FONANPE account, this risk is largely mitigated by the investment structure
(majority of the portfolio is invested in short-term fixed income, dollar denominated investments) and
the solid market fundamentals of the Peruvian economy.
Inflation Risk. In a highly inflationary market, financial investments may run the risk of loss of real
capital value due to inflation erosion. In order for PROFONANPE to achieve its long-term objective
of maintaining the real value of the trust's assets, approximately 4% of the net asset value (in U.S.
dollars) from the total annual return will be reinvested annually in the fund to safeguard its real value.
This annual reinvestment provision is specified in a spending rule which is incorporated in the
documentation governing this project.
With respect to local currency-denominated equity investments of this trust, Peru has experienced
favorable inflation trends that are expected to continue. Based on the local outlook for the Lima
Stock Exchange, growth is expected to remain strong for several years with average annual returns
(nominal) in the 15-30% range, provided political stabilization and macro-economic reforms continue
as planned.
Analysis of Proposals
Investment management proposals were received from five top Peruvian financial institutions. In the
Request for Proposal, these institutions were asked to present a global investment strategy for the
investment of PROFONANPE's funds, based on a conservative risk profile.
The principal criteria used to evaluate local banks as prospective investment managers were
institutional capacity, investment banking experience, substance of investment strategy proposals for
PROFONANPE, international capability (to invest a portion of the funds offshore) and administrative
costs. Based on these criteria, three banks were qualified as acceptable investment managers for
PROFONANPE's funds. In separate meetings with high-level representatives from the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, these three institutions were confirmed as the most experienced banks in the
country. In the absence of an official bank rating system in Peru, these official endorsements were
deemed essential. Copies of the proposals submitted by these banks can be found in the project files.
Investment Manaeement Parameters
Given the project's objectives, PROFONANPE's investment strategy will seek to maximize total
return, including interest, dividends and capital appreciation, while safeguarding a minimum level of
annual income to maintain the real value of the capital and cover operating expenses and grant
commitments.



-16 -                                  ANNEX 2
Since Peru's capital markets are expected to continue to develop at a rapid pace, the investment
management contract will include fairly broad investment parameters with a significant degree of
discretion for the asset manager, within the following specified investment guidelines:
1.    The objective of the GEF grant investment account will be to maintain a conservative
allocation of capital between fixed and variable income securities that will safeguard a
minimum level of annual income to: a) cover program needs, which are set at a minimum of
5 percent; b) generate a capital reserve to offset potential investment losses in future years;
and c) provide for an annual reinvestment in the amount of the projected long-term inflation
rate (as estimated by the World Bank) to maintain the real value of the seed capital.
2.     The starting asset allocation will be 70% in a variety of fixed income instruments and 30% in
equities. The investment manager will then have the option to alter this allocation in fixed
income assets from a high of 80% to a low of 60%, based on previous market performance
and on their professional perception of market conditions. The equity component will
conversely be adjusted between a low of 20% to a high of 40%. These asset allocation
parameters will be reviewed, and possibly revised, on an annual basis to account for changes
in market conditions. As the Peruvian market matures, a higher allocation in equities may be
prudent given the potential for higher returns from this asset class. At the same time, once
Peru concludes its external debt negotiations, an alternative offshore investment arrangement
could be considered.
3.     For domestic equity investments, the asset manager will select Peruvian companies with the
strongest market fundamentals for this portfolio. Since Peru is an emerging market, the
manager will diversify portfolio risk in complementary and countercyclical economic sectors.
PROFONANPE will maintain some portfolio liquidity (through fixed income instruments with
relatively short maturities) to take advantage of new issues, as they emerge. It is anticipated
that the asset allocation of this portfolio can be adjusted in future years, by continually
increasing the allocation of stocks, in order to maximize returns to PROFONANPE. The
investment manager will be responsible for selecting investments whose underlying activities
do not have adverse environmental impacts.
4.     The manager will have the option to invest a small percentage of the total portfolio in
international securities that qualify as high-grade investments in developed markets. The
manager will use their professional discretion in determining the composition of the
international component of this portfolio, between fixed income and variable securities.
5.     The portfolio will be administered on a dollarized basis.
Reportinig Requirements
The investment manager will prepare quarterly reports for PROFONANPE including a full accounting
on changes in market value, total returns and cash distributions.
Performance Evaluation
For purposes of evaluating the investment manager's performance relative to this objective, an initial
benchmark of 10 percent (dollarized, nominal return) will be used. For reference purposes, this level
approximates a 500 basis point spread over the current "tipmex" (the deposit rate on foreign exchange
certificates of deposit, and a local benchmark used for evaluating fixed income investments), and the



-17 -                                 ANNEX 2
year-to-date 1994 gain on the Lima Stock Exchange. Following a review of the investment manager's
performance in the initial two years, another type of benchmark could be considered such as a
weighted average index of the tipmex plus a spread for the fixed income component and the official
Lima Stock Exchange index for the equity portion of the portfolio.
PROFONANPE's financial experts appointed to its technical committee will conduct an annual
evaluation of the investment performance. While the Peruvian market is anticipated to yield
satisfactory results over the next few years, these high returns may not be sustainable over the long
term. The Board of Directors will therefore reserve the right to reconsider alternative investment
management options, including offshore markets, and if necessary will make adjustments under terms
of reference satisfactory to the World Bank.
Proiected Cash Flows
Regardless of the size of the trust fund's capital, the amount actually spent on project funding each
year will be determined by a "spending rule" designed to provide a sustainable and predictable stream
of income over time. A conservative spending rule, tied to a moving average of the value of the
fund, will smooth out variations in total return caused by market volatility, and ensure a steady level
of available income for program activities. The proposed spending rule specifies that only five
percent of the three-year moving average of the value of the portfolio will be available for program
spending in any given year. Given that a moving average is based on the lagged values of actual
portfolio size, expenditures for the first three years will be set at a conservative rate of five percent of
the current value of the portfolio. Subsequently, the spending rule will be used to determine allowed
annual expenditures.
Given that the project activities financed by the trust fund have no ending date, the purpose of the
figures presented below is to illustrate likely patterns of income and expenditure during the first five
years of the project. These figures show how according to the spending rule and based on a
minimum annual return of 10%, the annual spending income for PROFONANPE would be equal to
five percent of the average asset value. Of the balance remaining, the annual reinvestment rate to
maintain the real value of the fund's assets would approximate 3.7 percent, and investment
management fees and the contribution to the capital reserve would be 1.3 percent.
Two models are presented: Table 1 shows anticipated revenues and expenditures for project years 1 to
5, under the assumption that the PROFONANPE does not receive any additional contributions. To
put this "worst case" scenario in perspective, this limited level of funding would result in resources
devoted to protected areas which are three times those allocated by the government at present. Table
2, on the other hand, provides a projection under the assumption that the US$ 40 million target is
reached progressively over a five year period.



-18 -                                        ANNEX 2
TABLE 1
Trust Fund Anticipated Revenue Flow for Years 1 to 5
Assuming no Additional Capital Contributions (US$ '000)
YEAR                     Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999    TOTAL
Capital (nominal), BOY                   5,000      5,213     5,434      5,665     5,906
Capital (real), EOYI'                    5,000      5,027     5,053      5,080     5,107
Investment Income (nominal)9               500       521        543       566        591        2,721
Annual Reinvestment                        185        193       201       210        219        1,008
Contribution to Capital Reserve2'           28        29         30        31         32         150
Investment Management Fees                  38        39         41        42         44         204
Amount Available for Programsr             250       261        272       283        295        1,361
BOY: Beginng of Year
TABLE 2
Trust Fund Revenue Flow for Years 1 to 5
Assuming Progressive Total Capitalization to US$ 40 million (US$ '000)
YEAR                      Year I    Year 2    Year 3     Year 4    Year 5
. _________________________________         1995      1996      1997       1998      1999    TOTAL
Capital (nominal), BOY                    5,000    10,213    17,647     26,397    35,018
Capital (real), EOY5'                     9,822    16,963    25,361     33,629    42,251             l
Additional Capital Contributions          5,000     7,000     8,000      7,500     7,500      35,000
Investment Income (nominal)                 500     1,021     1,765      2,640     3,502       9,428
Annual Reinvestment                         185       378       653        977     1,296       3,489
Contribution to Capital Reserve              28        56        97        145       193         519
Investment Management Fees                   38        77       132        198       263         708
Amount Available for Program                250       511       882      1,320     1,751       4,714
BOY: BeginBg of Year: EOY: End of Year
1/ Assumes a long-term inflation rate and annual re-investment rate of 3.7% per year.
2/ Assumes a 10% minimum nominal return based on a portfolio of 70% fixed income and 30% equities.
3/ Balance available.
4/ On average, a minimum of 5 % of the capital will be available to the program, although actual expenditures
would be based on the "spending rule" described in the text.
S/ Illustrated in 1994 dollars.



-19 -                                 ANNEX 3
Annex 3: Description of the GTZ-Financed Program
The following is a description of the complementary project activities financed by the GTZ.
1.         Institutional Strengthening, Equipment and Training (US$627,000). To date,
INRENA and its predecessors have been unable to adequately carry out their mandate of managing
Peru's protected areas due to lack of personnel, equipment, operating funds and a united, thoughtfully
structured administration. To alleviate the lack of technical staff, the project will provide INRENA,
for a period of two years, the services of a full time expert who will provide support in park
management, planning and policy development. The project will also provide short-term consultants
to carry out specific research and planning tasks. After the initial GTZ contribution ends, FONANPE
would continue providing support to INRENA as needed, at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
In addition to human resources, the project would provide INRENA with facilities and equipment.
PROFONANPE has already transferred to INRENA part of the computers and one of the vehicles
received from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). This support should
facilitate the integration of project activities with the ongoing work of INRENA, resulting in a
mutually beneficial association. To improve communications with the remote protected areas, the
project has also equipped INRENA with short wave radio communication equipment to link
headquarters with the field stations. Also, the project is providing funding for the purchase of
additional office equipment, furniture, supplies and some basic operational costs.
2.         Training, however, will be the main vehicle for building Peru's long-term institutional
capacity. Accordingly, GTZ is currently financing training for INRENA staff both at headquarters
and in the field. The training programs range from short-term workshops and field courses to
participation in training programs abroad. To coordinate this work, the project would provide a
consultant to assist with the design and implementation of the training program.
3.         Development of a National Strategy for the Conservation and Management of
Peru's Protected Areas (US$360,000). INRENA does not currently have an integrated strategy for
the management of its protected areas. Without such a plan, management of Peru's protected areas is
haphazard and ineffective. Consequently, the project is financing the formulation of a master plan for
the integrated and comprehensive management of all protected areas in the country. This master plan
will also provide recommendations as to structural changes in Peru's protected area administration.
4.         Grants to NGOs: Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (US$450,000).
The project would finance a program of small grants to be awarded through open competition to
NGOs, local grassroots organizations, or universities based on proposals submitted to FONANPE to
be approved according to established procedures. The grants would finance the implementation of
projects geared to advance the complementary objectives of natural areas conservation and income
generation for rural inhabitants, such as agroforestry development, marketing of non-timber forest
products and small-scale, ecotourism and commercial wildlife breeding of caimans or other species.
Project selection mechanisms and criteria have already been developed by PROFONANPE, and the
first round of proposal review will take place by mid-October 1994.
5.         Operational Support for PROFONANPE (US$173,000). Initial donations by the
Canadian International Development Agency provided PROFONANPE with office space and fully
equipped offices in Lima. For the initial two years of the project, the expenses of the project
coordinating unit would be borne by the GTZ grant with a possible extension of up to four years.
Thereafter, and on a increasingly diminishing rate, these costs will be financed using a portion of the
income of FONANPE.



- 20 -                                 ANNEX 4
Annex 4: Description of the Protected Areas Supported Under the Trust Fund
Manu National Park and Biosphere Reserve
1.   The Manu Biosphere Reserve encompasses over 1.5 million hectares, divided into three
management categories: Manu National Park, a core area preserved in its most natural state; the
Experimental or Reserved Zone, a buffer zone set aside for controlled experimental research and
tourism; and the Cultural Zone, a transition area of permanent human settlements where sustainable
uses of land and forest are promoted. The Reserve contains the world's highest recorded diversities
for birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, freshwater fishes, all vascular plants, trees, butterflies, and
invertebrates. In only a few square kilometers, at the Cocha Cashu Biological Station in the park's
lowland rain forest, over 560 species of birds have been recorded. It is estimated that a
comprehensive inventory would reveal close to 1,000 bird species in Manu. Current bird counts in
Manu represent 25 percent of all bird species known in Latin America and nearly 10 percent of the
earth's birds. Despite the botanical interest in Manu, relatively few plant collections have been made
there. At least 1,200 species of vascular plants are reported from limited samples of the lowlands.
This estimate is likely to increase substantially when plant inventories are completed for all altitudinal
levels. The more than 200 species of trees reported from a 1-hectare plot of forest in Cocha Cashu
alone makes this one of the world's most diverse forests. The appearance of the mature forests at
Manu is impressive, with emergent trees reaching heights above 55 meters on well-drained sites.
Manu is one of the last South American wilderness areas with extensive pure stands of large cedro
(Cedrela spp.) trees. Elsewhere in the Neotropics this valuable timber species has been virtually
eliminated.
2.    The Manu National Park and Biosphere Reserve has been subject to mild stresses but is
threatened by a dramatic escalation of both the number and intensity of its problems. The difficulties
the Reserve faces originate from its management as well as from outside forces. No coherent
management exists: Manu's administration is the responsibility of the regional government, whereas
given that it is also a national park and biosphere reserve INRENA is responsible for technical
support. Despite the existence of biannual management plans, and an "anthropological plan"
addressing indigenous populations inside park boundaries, insufficient funds have precluded their
implementation. In 1992, Manu's staff dropped from 33 to 8 people due to low salaries and morale.
That year only one fifth of the already inadequate, allotted annual budget was actually distributed.
The park suffers also from inadequately trained staff. The lack of infrastructure such as guard posts,
docks and roads, as well as insufficient numbers of boats, trucks and radios, make policing the park
extremely difficult.
3.    Managing and protecting the park coherently and efficiently is increasingly important in the
light of mounting outside threats. Immigrants from the highlands are encroaching on park territory,
practicing destructive forms of shifting agriculture. Wood extraction from park lands is also
reportedly increasing. Peasants have cleared and burned areas along the western highland and south
western borders for pasture and cropping. The Camisea natural gas deposits near the western border
will start being developed in 1995. This could cause an influx of population and subsequent pressure
on the resources of the surrounding area. Park boundaries are at best poorly marked, and much of
the Reserve frontier is totally unmarked. No planning or control accompanies the chaotic tourist
industry operating in the reserve. Intrusions by outsiders, as well as the park's failure to establish
good relations with indigenous populations, has meant that frictions between colonists or park staff
and indigenous populations are mounting. Many volatile land tenure issues remain unresolved.



- 21-                                 ANNEX 4
4.   Through time, as funds permit, income from the trust fund will help implement the biannual
management plans, and fit them into the National Park Strategy. The park's administration and
planning will be consolidated and streamlined to allow for both more coherent and efficient
management of the park as well as a strong, united public front to defend the park from threats like
energy, logging or agricultural interests. Park facilities and equipment for transportation and
communication will be provided specifically to patrol the park, while at the same time making these
resources available to researchers to the degree possible. The park's boundaries will be marked.
With a regular, adequate budget, sufficient personnel may be (re)hired and provided with training if
needed. A public relations/education campaign to make known the objectives and importance of the
park will be undertaken in and around the area. Tourism to the area will be managed according to a
coherent plan that assures its adherence to the park's objectives. Through local governments, NGOs
and Universities, sustainable development efforts will be supported in areas inside and around the
park according to the park's guidelines and Peruvian law. Scientific studies will be supported, both
to study the ecosystems and species of Manu and to monitor the impacts of various interventions
inside and outside the park.
Noroeste Biosphere Reserve
5.   Three contiguous protected areas in northwestern Peru--Cerros de Amotape National Park, the
Tumbes National Forest and the El Angolo Hunting Reserve comprise the Noroeste Biosphere
Reserve. Totaling over 233,000 hectares, the Reserve contains the best remnants of the once-
extensive areas of western South American dry tropical forests, and harbors many endangered wildlife
species. Additionally, a coastal mangrove forest is also part--albeit not contiguous--of the Reserve.
The Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary protects a sample of the southernmost boundary of
mangrove distribution in western South America. Like all mangrove ecosystems, the Tumbes
Mangrove Sanctuary provides an important basis for the area's artisanal fisheries. In general, the
tropical dry forests and coastal mangroves are two of the most threatened and rare natural ecosystems
left in Latin America. This set of protected areas in Peru offers a unique opportunity to preserve
representative examples of those communities and ecosystems, as well as to learn how to manage
portions of them for direct harvesting of natural resources for the benefit of the local population.
6.   The natural resources of Noroeste Reserve are subject to a number of pressures which have
been notably increasing over the past few decades, particularly the last ten years. Those include:
poaching and firewood extraction by the Peruvian Army and local artisans; extensive logging in one
area of the park by parquet production companies; cattle grazing in several areas of the park during
the dry season; illegal hunting of wildlife for the international pet trade; and fires that invade from
surrounding agricultural zones. The Reserve's infrastructure and protection capacity are woefully
inadequate in the face of these pressures. Additionally, an irrigation dam on the Rio Tumbes has
been proposed and enjoys popular support. It would affect the Park and the National Forest and
jeopardize several endangered species like the American crocodile and the river otter. The mangroves
are particularly threatened by over 200 shrimp breeding farms, depletion of natural populations of
shrimp larvae, over-exploitation of black scallops, and tree felling for fuelwood. In general, the
habitat degradation is caused and exacerbated by outside special interest groups, not local people.
Local communities are using the resources, in some cases only on a subsistence basis, at levels that
could be withstood by the resources if properly managed. A lack of government involvement in the
past has aggravated the pressures on the natural resource base in this region.
7.    The trust's income would allow the Reserve to stabilize and strengthen its administrative and
protection capacities through hiring more staff, providing training for all employees, constructing new
guard posts and infrastructure, and equipping staff with adequate offices, supplies and means of



- 22 -                                 ANNEX 4
transportation and communication. The Reserve plans an intensive education and public relations
campaign because the Reserve has been degraded by people who poorly understand its objectives and
value. At the same time, sustainable development efforts have been promoted by environmental
NGOs in the region since 1990. FONANPE would support efforts by these NGOs to take the lead in
developing the region with environmentally sensitive activities. It would also try to generate local
support for the Reserve to help discourage incompatible activities like dam-building. It will promote
tourism and scientific inquiry.
Rio Abiseo National Park
8.   The Rio Abiseo National Park is one of the newest and most diverse protected areas in Peru.
The park was established by the Peruvian government in 1983, primarily to protect a representative
sample of cloud forest habitats. Hidden in the clouds much of the year, these forests harbor many
unique species of plants and animals, including the endangered yellow-tailed woolly monkey. Found
only in these forests, this animal has been chosen as the park's symbol. Rio Abiseo encompasses
274,000 hectares, enclosing the entire Abiseo River watershed. Within its boundaries the rivers
descend abruptly from 14,000 feet above sea level to 1,000 feet. Ecologically this park contains at
least five distinct life zones, ranging from the premontane tropical forests to the treeless paramo or
frostland, and harbors exceptional biological diversity. In addition to its natural riches, it contains
spectacular archaeological remains with great research and tourism potential. Maintenance of this
area in its pristine state is essential in the protection of the Huallaga River Basin Watershed.
9.   The Rio Abiseo National Park and buffer zones are relatively intact, but are at risk on several
fronts. Peasant villages along the western border threaten the integrity of the highland ecosystems,
especially in areas where park land has been burned for pasture. Seven families reportedly live
within Park boundaries, and property rights are poorly defined along its western border. Luckily,
however, relations between local populations and the park have been relatively good. Gold mines to
the west have attracted settlers, many of whom wish to prospect inside the park. A road was
proposed, cutting straight through the Park, which would inevitably bring in a wave of migratory
farmers. Were tourism developed, peasants from the neighboring areas would be apt to relocate at
the border of or inside the park to capture some of the wealth. Plundering of archaeological sites is
increasing. No humans are known to live in the eastern portion of the Park, but the area has been
considered for small-holder agriculture, logging and access roads to other areas.
10.  Administrative and budgetary problems have plagued the park since its creation. At present,
the government contributes almost nothing to its support. All resources come sporadically from
private sources, and planning is difficult when the park must survive based on such scarce and
unpredictable funding. Over half its guards quit in 1992, perhaps due to low morale and the higher
salaries offered in the neighboring gold mines. This lack of on-the-ground supervision has resulted in
a much higher incursion rate than in previous years. Neighboring communities perceive the park
administration to have abandoned its protection efforts. A lack of infrastructure and equipment means
that protection, transportation, access and communication are extremely difficult.
11.    The trust fund annuity would support efforts to hire and train personnel, paying locally
competitive salaries. It would support guard posts, infrastructure, means of transportation, radio
communications and other equipment necessary to protect the Park, thereby dispelling the perception
that the area is one of open access. As funding permits, it would construct education centers and
promulgate the objectives of the park to neighboring communities. It would help maintain or
establish open and friendly relations with neighboring populations. It would help develop a planned,
controlled tourist industry, emphasizing preservation and study of the magnificent natural and cultural



- 23 -                               ANNEX 4
resources of the park. It would support the sustainable development efforts of NGOs working in the
area like the Asociaci6n Peruana para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza. This continued support
would establish a consolidated, unified administration that will be effective not only in protecting and
managing the park within its boundaries, but also in defending the park at a national level from
threats such as mining, logging and road-building concessions.



- 24 -                                ANNEX 5
Annex 5: Terms of Reference for the Technical Committee of PROFONANPE
1.   Objectives: The Technical Committee of PROFONANPE (TC) will:
(i)   Provide technical assistance and advice on the allocation of funds to the Board of
PROFONANPE as needed concerning the field and office operations of the program.
Whereas it will have no voting power concerning how to allocate funds, Bank
supervision missions will evaluate whether its suggestions have been adequately
incorporated into programming.
(ii)   Develop guidelines for monitoring and evaluation for the program, and as needed, carry
out specific monitoring and evaluation tasks.
(iii) Conduct an annual evaluation of the performance of the asset manager.
2.   Composition: The TC will be composed of specialists in various technical areas pertaining to
the operations of PROFONANPE and program beneficiaries. Such specialists includes those with
experience in the program's field work, such as ecologists, biologists (plant, marine, animal), wildlife
specialists (ornithologists, primatologists, entomologists), foresters, park managers,
anthropologists/rural sociologists, geographers, epidemiologists or doctors, pharmacologists and
experts in rural development, education and gender issues. It should also contain advisors on office
operations, such as specialists in business, finance, investments, accounting,
organization/management, law, policy and institution-building. It should draw most of its
membership domestically, but some members may be drawn internationally to benefit from new
experience and thinking elsewhere in the world and to promote the program abroad.
3.    Structure and Responsibilities: The TC will have an in-country core unit and a mixed
domestic-international roster. The core unit will be responsible for advising on small issues as
needed, as well as for the writing of reports and the monitoring and evaluation guidelines. Both the
domestic unit and the international roster will review annual work plans, as well as conservation unit
management plans and the monitoring and evaluation guidelines. The core unit may write reports
(which the entire TC should review) if either it desires or if requested by the Board. The core units
would meet once or twice a year to discuss annual work plans, and whenever a meeting is needed.
For practical reasons, non-core members will not be required to attend meetings, but may do so at
their own expense. The Board will devise procedures for the regular supervision of the program by
the TC, and for TC approval of the reports and guidelines the TC generates.
4.   Nomination and Selection: The core unit will be composed of 12 to 18 members selected for
their expertise in areas of direct relevance to FONANPE's activities. The number of members would
not be fixed, because experts with new skills may be required after its formation, whereas other
specialists may not be needed subsequently. Based upon nominations received from the Board of
PROFONANPE, INRENA, concerned NGOs, the World Bank/GEF and the GTZ, the Project
Coordinator will present a proposal to the Board with a list of nominees to be invited to serve on the
TC.
5.   Financing: Members of the TC will assist PROFONANPE free of charge since members'
responsibilities are small and FONANPE's funds are scarce and should be directed instead towards
the conservation units themselves. If specific tasks arise requiring significant work, however, the
Board and Project Coordinator may commission members of the TC to perform them at rates to be
determined for each individual task.



- 25 -                                  ANNEX 6
Annex 6: Monitoring and Evaluation
Introduction.
1.   In keeping with the pilot nature of the first tranche of GEF projects, the Peru Trust Fund for
Protected Areas will serve as a test of the effectiveness of trust funds as mechanisms for long term
financing of biodiversity conservation. The project will provide an opportunity to address the design
and management issues associated with financing the recurrent costs of biodiversity conservation.
The ultimate goal of the trust fund itself, however, will be the preservation of biodiversity in Peru by
providing a stable source of funding for conservation programs and activities.
2.    Given the dual objectives of the project, the monitoring strategy will consist of two types of
evaluation: (i) the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the GEF project per se; and (ii)
the evaluation of how trust funds contribute to biodiversity conservation. The lessons learned in this
second form of evaluation would contribute to the global body of knowledge of biodiversity
conservation strategies. The sections below delineate the specific benchmarks for both project
implementation success and the criteria for success of the trust fund as a mechanism for financing
biodiversity conservation.
Evaluation of Project Implementation
3. The following benchmarks will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of project implementation.
Success in meeting the implementation benchmarks will also serve to determine at what point the
Bank ceases supervision of the project. The benchmarks fall under three broad categories:
institutional capacity, financial effectiveness, and the adequacy of the legal framework.
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*    The Board of Directors has met at least twice each year and has carried out its responsibilities
as established in PROFONANPE by-laws for three years in a row.
O    The project coordinating unit is functioning and staffed with qualified professionals.
*    The Technical Committee is functioning and has provided relevant technical input to the Board
of Directors, including conducting an annual evaluation of the asset manager of the fund for 3
years in a row.
*    The selection of activities and projects is made in accordance with the Board's project
eligibility and selection criteria, and following the agreed-upon participative and consultative
process for three years in a row.
*    Satisfactory annual work programs are submitted to the Bank for review in a timely manner for
three years in a row. A satisfactory work program would contain a clear statement of
objectives and the proposed activities would be consistent with these objectives.
*    The disbursement of funds for the various activities and projects is made in a timely and
efficient manner for three years in a row.
*    Satisfactory annual progress reports are submitted by the Board to the Bank in a timely basis
for 3 years in a row.



- 26 -                                ANNEX 6
*    The fund has a clear written strategy for raising additional funds and is actively pursuing
further donations.
*    Administrative costs are kept within agreed-upon limits, not exceeding a 5% increase per year.
*    Annual audits show satisfactory performance in funding approved work programs and
competent record-keeping for three years in a row.
*    Procurement is made in accordance to Bank-approved procedures for three years in a row.
FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS
*    Adherence to investment guidelines for three years in a row.
*    Adherence to disbursement guidelines, based on the "spending rule" for three years in a row.
LEGAL FRAMEWORK ADEQUACY
*    All necessary legislation and other arrangements are in place to assure effective functioning of
the fund, including protection from attachment and taxation.
Evaluation of the Trust Fund as a Mechanism for Financing Biodiversity Conservation.
4.   The impact of the trust fund will ultimately be measured by what is "bought' in terms of
biodiversity protection. Such an evaluation, however, would not be feasible within the time frame of
the GEF project; the evaluation of changes in natural systems takes decades and requires the extensive
inventory of key species to obtain data on population sizes and distribution. The collection of such
data is technically difficult, time consuming, and expensive. Moreover, what can be measured is
often hard to interpret both due to inherent natural fluctuation in ecological processes as well as the
difficulty of determining the counterfactual case, that is, what might have occurred in the absence of
the project. For these reasons, project design and implementation are used as proxies for impact.
5.    The success of the trust fund will depend on a series of factors, some of which are under the
control of the project implementors and some of which are not. For example, the trust fund will
require favorable market conditions to generate adequate investment returns, as well as successful
fund raising yet both will depend largely on outside forces. Similarly, the effectiveness of
conservation measures adopted will depend on the quality of their design as well as on national
policies and socio-economic circumstances.
6.   Taking these factors into consideration, the achievement of the benchmarks below will indicate
the success of the trust fund as a mechanism for financing biodiversity conservation.
*    FUND RAISING SUCCESS: The fund has reached a minimum capital level of $40 million
dollars (the goal is to reach this capitalization level within five years from the date of the
grant).
*    FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS: The investments are providing reliable and adequate
returns. This entails a minimum of 10% annual return of the investment so as to cover
program needs (5%); provide annual reinvestment to maintain real value of seed capital; and
afford a capital reserve to offset low-yield years.



- 27 -                               ANNEX 6
*    GOVERNMENT COMMITMENT: The government is committed to providing long-term
financing for protected areas, as evidenced by their active participation in the activities of the
Board of Directors of PROFONANPE and by supporting its fund raising efforts by facilitating
debt-for-nature transactions and other contributions. Commitment is also reflected by the
government's continued funding for the protected areas at the current level of budget allocation
(in real terms), thus ensuring that the GEF funding is truly additional.
*    BIODIVERSITY IMPACT: The stable financing provided by the trust fund ensures that the
protected areas receive adequate management, which in the long run results in decreased park
encroachment, deforestation, poaching and biodiversity loss. The impact of the project on the
protected areas will be evaluated against the baseline information collected during project
preparation and summarized in the background paper on each of the selected areas titled:
"Informe sobre las Areas Protegidas Seleccionadas para Apoyo por el GEF." Moreover, the
impact of the project will also be evaluated as a function of how it has contributed towards the
goals established in the management plan or operating plan of each protected area.
*    SOCIAL IMPACT: The trust fund's decision-making processes have fostered local and NGO
participation in the management of the protected areas, as evidenced by their active
involvement in decisions about the allocation of resources in each protected area and their
understanding and commitment to the goals of park management.



- 28 -                                ANNEX 7
Annex 7: Project Eligibility and Selection Criteria
Project Eli2ibility Criteria
The income generated by PROFONANPE's trust fund will be used to finance a variety of
conservation activities in the selected areas and their buffer zones. The activities eligible for funding
include:
1.   Financing the recurrent costs of protected area management (such as facilities and infrastructure
for park personnel, operational expenses of park administration, etc.). This funding should not
replace regular government allocations.
2.   Drafting, revising and implementing management plans
3.   Establishing and managing buffer zones
4.   Training professionals in park and wildlife management
5.   Instituting environmental education and public awareness programs for communities associated
with protected areas
6.   Implementing projects that integrate conservation and development to benefit the communities
living in the protected areas and buffer zones
7.   Institutional support the strengthening of INRENA's General Directorate of Protected Areas
and Wildlife (DGAPFS)
8.   Administrative expenses of PROFONANPE
The protected areas initially selected for financial support are:
a)    Northwest Biosphere Reserve (includes Parque Nacional Cerros de Amotape, Bosque
Nacional de Tumbes, Coto de Caza El Angolo and their areas of influence).
b)   Parque Nacional Rio Abiseo and buffer zones.
c)    Manu Biosphere Reserve (includes Parque Nacional and Zona Reservada del Manu, as
well as their areas of influence).
As the trust fund grows, additional areas may be added to this list by the Board of Directors of
PROFONANPE, based on the Master Plan for the National System of Natural Areas Protected by the
State (SINANPE), currently under development. Initially, grants are not expected to exceed $50,000
per year per grant, although this level may be revised by PROFONANPE's Board of Directors at a
later date.
The specific allocation of funds generated by the trust's investments will be determined by
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors, based on a draft work program prepared by the project
Coordinator. This draft work program will be based on an analysis of the requirements and needs for
each area, made jointly by INRENA and PROFONANPE's Coordinator. This analysis of needs will



- 29 -                                ANNEX 7
be based on the Master Plan for SINANPE, and the management plan and/or operating plan of each
conservation unit. Given the project's commitment to fostering a participatory approach to
conservation, this analysis of needs will be made in close coordination with each protected area's
administrative officer, local committees, (where they exist), park officers, local grassroots
organizations and local communities.
After this participatory and consultative process has taken place, PROFONANPE's Coordinator
will present to the Board a proposal outlining the prioritized actions in each area, and a
recommendation on which activities are suitable for being carried out directly by the DGAPFS and
which are appropriate for allocation on the basis of an open contest process. The draft work program
will include a statement of specific objectives to be pursued during the year and a description of the
activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those objectives. PROFONANPE's coordinator will
send this draft work program to the Technical Committee for written comments, and will prepare a
memo to the Board summarizing the comments received and how these were taken into account in
revising the work plan. The Board will send this program to the Bank for comment no later than
November 15 of each year.
Once the Work Program has been approved, PROFONANPE will issue the appropriate
"Request for Proposals" for the prioritized activities to be awarded on the basis of an open contest.
Eligibility Criteria for Participating in the Open Contest
Proposals submitted on an annual open contest basis will be eligible under the following
conditions:
i.   Proposals may be presented by each protected area administrative authority as well as by
private institutions, universities and community-based organizations, or associations comprised
of more than one of these entities. In the case of private institutions they should:
a)    Have at least two years of experience in natural resource conservation projects. An
exception can be made in the case of cooperatives, agricultural credit unions and small
producers associations, as long as the group can satisfactorily demonstrate experience in
other communal projects.
b)   Have updated accounting procedures in accordance with accepted accounting practices.
c)    Have been legally established for at least one year prior to the date of launching of the
public contest process. Organizations which have not been legally constituted, but
whose activities relate to a specific protected area or represent the local populations, may
apply for funds through sponsoring organizations which fulfill the above requirements.
2.   Proposals must:
a)    Adhere to the priorities established by PROFONANPE in coordination with the
DGAPFS, following the guidelines of the Master Plan for SINANPE.
b)   Be in keeping with other on-going efforts to further the appropriate management of the
protected area.
c)    Be based on one-year work plans.



- 30 -                                 ANNEX 7
Procedures for Project Selection
To evaluate the proposals presented, PROFONANPE will establish an evaluations committee.
This committee will be comprised of:
1.   One representative appointed by the Board of PROFONANPE.
2.   One representative appointed by INRENA.
2.   One representative of PROFONANPE's Technical Committee appointed by PROFONANPE's
Coordinator, with the relevant professional qualification in keeping with the subject matter of
the proposal.
Announcement of the open contest process will be made in a national paper and through other
suitable media in localities near the protected areas two months prior to the applications deadline.
Announcements will be made as well through the managers of each protected area. It will be the
responsibility of the Coordinator of PROFONANPE to ensure that the information regarding the
request for proposals reach the local and grass-roots levels.
Evaluation Criteria
Proposals will be selected for funding according to the following criteria:
1.   Relevance and adherence of the proposal to the Master Plan for SINANPE and to the Master
Plan of the specific area under consideration (if available).
2.   Clear definition of methodology and reasonable costs.
3.   Likelihood that the activities are socially, environmentally and financially sustainable.
4.   Relevance of the proposal to the priorities defined for the funding period.
5.   Innovativeness and replicability of activities at the local level and at other natural protected
areas.
6.   Participation of local grassroots organizations and the affected population in identification of
needs, as well as in the planning, implementation and evaluation of the results of the project.
7.   Social viability insofar as the proposed activities address the needs identified by the affected
populations.
8.   Technical and administrative capacity of the sponsoring institution to execute the proposed
project, based on the qualifications of its staff and its record with other projects.
9.   Degree of commitment to the project, as demonstrated by the provision of financial or in-kind
counterpart resources.



- 31-                                 ANNEX 8
Annex 8: PROFONANPE's Administrative Costs
TABLE I
PROFONANPE Administrative Costs
(US$ '000)
YEAR             Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  TOTAL
1995     1996    1997     1998     1999           l
PROFONANPE's                   0      150      159      166      175       650
Administrative Costs                                                           l
TABLE 2
PROFONANPE Annual Operating Costs
(in 1995 US$)
Personnel Costs                                             92,894
Coordinator                                               42,910
Administrator/Accountant                                  16,016
Secretary                                                 11,550
Messenger, Office Assistant                                7,084
Health Insurance                                             550
Social Security                                           14,784
Office Costs                                                29,560
Office Rent                                               10,560
Electricity and Office Maintenance                         4,000
Fax, Telephone                                             6,000
Postage and Courier Service                                1,000
Equipment Maintenance and Repair                           2,000
Office Supplies/Photocopying                               6,000
Financial Audit                                              5,000
Travel and Per diems                                         6,500
Transportation                                               8,700
Fuel, Repair and Maintenance                               6,000
Parking, Local Transportation                              1,500
Insurance                                                   1,200
SUBTOTAL                                                   142,654
Price Contingencies (5%)                                     7,133
TOTAL                                                       149,787



- 32 -                                 ANNEX 9
Annex 9: Selected Documents Available in Project File
*    The initial proposal from the Government of Peru to the GEF for the establishment of a Trust
Fund for Parks and Protected Areas, March 1992.
*    A report of the investment opportunities in the United States titled: "Informe sobre la Eleccion de
una firma financiera para la administracion de activos del fondo fideicomiso," by Mr. Francisco
Tourreilles, May, 1992.
*    A report of the investment opportunities in Peru titled: "Informe para el consejo directivo del
PROFONANPE sobre la seleccion de un banco nacional para la administracion de los fondos del
FONANPE en el Peru," by Ms. Bernardita Zapata, August, 1994.
*    A report on the future perspectives of the Peruvian Economy, Business and the Lima Stock Market
titled "Peru: Looking Ahead," by Intervalores, Peruvian Equity Research, May, 1994.
*    A background paper on the protected areas selected for support under this project titled: "Informe
sobre las Areas Protegidas Seleccionadas para Apoyo por el GEF."
*    Copies of the following legal decrees:
Decree Law No. 26154, establishing FONANPE and PROFONANPE
Supreme Decree No. 024-93-AG, ratifying PROFONANPE's bylaws
Supreme Decree No. 43-94-AG, modifying the composition of PROFONANPE's Board
Legislative Decree No. 769, establishing the general law of banking institutions.
*    A paper on the conservation strategy for Peru titled: "Estrategia Nacional para la Conservacion,"
by the Nacional Commission to Develop a National Conservation Strategy, 1991.
*     1993 Annual progress report of PROFONANPE, titled: "Memoria 1993."
*     4A Manual of Norms and Procedures for PROFONANPE, January 1994.
*    A Manual of Organization, Functions and Policies for PROFONANPE.
*    A legal opinion on the risk of attachment of the trust fund in the U.S.A, issued by the firm of
Baker and Hostetler, dated May 19, 1993.
*    Management Plans for Manu National Park, Rio Abiseo National Park and Noroeste Biosphere
Reserve.



MAP SECTION






I                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2'                                                  /                               5~~~~~~~~p                   d/
TUMBES                      ()'                                                                                                
/  I                                           4---, ~~~~~~~~~ rI                    i
I       0 
PIURA  """"t   Ii  \                           p)    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ B                A      I3
0                      K'                 5~~~~~~~~~~~      Ar10D
r   A                    C                  (N
5,             5    ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ IM
12                      2'                         ko                        
<N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ICA'~~~~~~~~'
PROTECTED AREAS~~~~-
N~~~~~ :ONALODAKS,
PACI   ICTRI SANCTARIE
2'                                       WIMA       S  IIAANCNGPAES R E
0  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                 N                           F AG', AAONDE
RIVERS                        ILOMETES                                                    '         S
PROTECATMEDT AREASARIES
INENATIONAL PARKS  RES                 "-  ..      .-
* A    NATIONAL RESERVES       - 
NATIONA SANCTARIES                                                                                       rCHILE        .









Printed on recycled paper



