Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028656
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(National Trust Fund for Protected Areas)
between
 REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated July 21, 1995
Page  2
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028656
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1995, between  REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as 
Trustee of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the 
Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET, Cofinancing 
Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources 
by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, to 
administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance with, provisions of 
the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the 
resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Project will be carried out by PROFONANPE (as hereinafter 
defined) with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to PROFONANPE (as hereinafter defined) the proceeds of the GET Grant as provided 
in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient has contracted from the Federal Republic of Germany a 
grant in the amount of DM5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on terms and conditions set 
forth in the agreement dated March 10,1993 between the Recipient and the Government of the 
Federal Republic of Germany; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in 
the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Trustee and PROFONANPE (as 
hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
Page  3
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant;
Page  4
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph shall be added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
as follows: "An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the GET Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Asset Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
2.04 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Asset Manager" means the asset manager selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Eligibility and Selection Criteria" means the eligibility and selection criteria for 
the conservation activities to be financed by PROFONANPE as set forth in the letter of even date 
herewith from PROFONANPE to the Trustee;
(d)
"Environment and Natural Resources Code" means the Recipient's Environment 
and Natural Resources Code (Legislative Decree No. 613 published in El
Peruano
of September 
8, 1990 and October 10, 1990);
(e)
"FONANPE" means the Recipient's National Fund for Natural Areas Protected 
by the State ("Fondo
Nacional
para
Areas
Naturales
Protegidas
por
el
Estado
"), a trust fund 
established by Decree Law No. 26154, published in El
Peruano
 of December 30, 1992;
(f)
"Implementing Legislation" means Decree Law No. 26154 referred to in 
paragraph (e) above and Supreme Decree No. 024-93-AG, published in El
Peruano
of July 16, 
1993, as amended by Supreme Decree No. 43-94-AG, published in El
Peruano
of
September 2, 
1994, approving the regulations of said Decree Law;
(g)
"Implementation Program" means the program set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement;
(h)
"INRENA" means the Recipient's National Institute of Natural Resources ("
Instituto
Nacional
de
Recursos
Naturales
"), a decentralized entity of the Recipient's Ministry of 
Agriculture;
(i)
"PROFONANPE" means the entity established by Decree Law No. 26154 
referred to in paragraph (e) above for the purpose of administering FONANPE;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Trustee and PROFONANPE, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
Page  5
(k)
"Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in Section 3.02 of the 
Project Agreement; and
(l)
"Protected Areas" means the Recipient's Manu National Park and Biosphere 
Reserve, Río Abiseo National Park, and Noroeste Biosphere Reserve, and such other protected 
areas (within the meaning of Article 51 of the Recipient's Environment and Natural Resources 
Code and Supreme Decree No. 010-89-AG) as PROFONANPE may decide to support with 
FONANPE financing in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Legislation, this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the Trustee 
shall establish.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall assist PROFONANPE in 
performing in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Legislation and the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of PROFONANPE therein set forth and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the investment 
income of the Grant proceeds shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient and the Trustee hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by PROFONANPE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall participate with PROFONANPE and the Trustee in the 
midterm review referred to in Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement. 
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
PROFONANPE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Grant Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that PROFONANPE 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablish-ment of PROFONANPE or for the suspension of its 
operations.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Asset Management Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
have been fulfilled. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Trustee, namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by PROFONANPE, and is legally binding upon PROFONANPE in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 19, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect for twenty-five years from the date 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Recipient's Minister of Economy and Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Peru
For the Trustee:
Director, Country Department III
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Ricardo Luna
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Sri-ram Aiyer
Page  8
Acting Director, Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of the 
GET Grant shall be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account under one application for 
withdrawal providing for the entire amount of the Grant to be paid to the order of FONANPE's 
account established by PROFONANPE. The investment income of the proceeds of the GET 
Grant shall be used exclusively for financing the reasonable cost of the execution of the Project.
2.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that a payment made from the 
investment income of the GET Grant proceeds was used for expenditures not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement or the Project Agreement, the Recipient shall, upon notice from the 
Trustee, refund, or cause PROFONANPE to refund, to the Trustee, for deposit into the GET 
Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as shall be 
specified by the Trustee.
3.
If any of the following events shall occur within twenty-five years of the date of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, upon notice from the Trustee, refund, or cause PROFONANPE 
to refund, to the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account the amount of the GET Grant:
(a)
the Implementing Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Trustee, would materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project or the attainment of its objectives; or
(b)
PROFONANPE has been dissolved or its operations have been suspended.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide a long term and predictable source of 
funding for the protection of Peru's biodiversity through the establishment and operation of a 
trust fund; (b) to improve INRENA's capacity to protect and manage the Protected Areas; (c) to 
provide a reliable mechanism to channel donations and other forms of financial assistance for 
conservation and sustainable development; and (d) to test the viability of the trust fund concept 
as a mechanism for providing long term and sustainable funding for biodiversity conservation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Administration of FONANPE by PROFONANPE.
Part B
:
Use of investment income of FONANPE by PROFONANPE:
(1)
to support the Protected Areas as set forth in the Implementation Program; and
Page  9
(2)
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Parks Directorate of INRENA and 
PROFONANPE for Project implementation, supervision and evaluation through:
(a)
provision of technical assistance;
(b)
training of staff involved in Project implementation; and
(c)
provision of necessary physical facilities and equipment.
