Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028656
Project Agreement
(National Trust Fund for Protected Areas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
and
PROFONANPE
Dated July 21, 1995
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028656
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of Grant Funds provided by 
Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) 
(the Trustee) and PROFONANPE.
WHEREAS (A) by a GET Grant Agreement of even date herewith (the GET Grant 
Agreement) between the Republic of Peru (the Recipient) and the Trustee, the Trustee has agreed 
to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the GET Grant Agreement, but only on condition that PROFONANPE agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Trustee as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the proceeds of the GET Grant provided for under the GET Grant 
Agreement will be made available to PROFONANPE in accordance with the provisions of the 
GET Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS (C) PROFONANPE, in consideration of the Trustee's entering into the GET 
Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the GET 
Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the 
following meaning: 
(a)
"Annual Work Plans" means each of the plans referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Implementation Indicators" means the implementation and impact indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement from PROFONANPE to the Trustee;
(c)
"Investment Guidelines" means the guidelines for investment, distribution of 
income and financial supervision set forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement from 
PROFONANPE to the Trustee; and
(d)
"Technical Committee" means the technical committee referred to in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  3
Section 2.01. (a) PROFONANPE declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GET Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and social practices, consistent with the Implementing Legislation, the 
Asset Management Agreement and the Investment Guidelines, and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Trustee and PROFONANPE shall otherwise agree, PROFONANPE shall carry out 
the Project in accor-dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
PROFONANPE shall, for the purposes of the Project, open a trust account for 
FONANPE in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Section 2.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the investment 
income of the Grant proceeds shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PROFONANPE shall carry out the obliga-tions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively).
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
PROFONANPE shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the date of 
the Trustee's communication referred to in Section 2.06 (c) of this 
Agreement, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
PROFONANPE on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon.
Section 2.04. PROFONANPE shall select a professional asset manager for the 
investment of FONANPE's resources on the basis of criteria and procedures acceptable to the 
Trustee and shall enter into annual agreements with the asset manager so selected on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Trustee. PROFONANPE shall not terminate, amend or waive any 
provision of said annual agreements within the first ten years after the date of the GET Grant 
Agreement without the Trustee's prior written agreement. 
Page  4
Section 2.05. PROFONANPE shall ensure that the management and investment of 
FONANPE's resources, the distribution of investment income and the supervision of the Asset 
Manager shall be carried out in accordance with the Investment Guidelines, which shall not be 
amended or waived within the first ten years after the date of the GET Grant Agreement without 
the Trustee's prior written agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, PROFONANPE shall assist the Trustee in carrying out a Project implementation 
review on a semi-annual basis.  Said Project implementation reviews shall be carried out on the 
basis of the Implementation Indicators. PROFONANPE shall promptly take all such action, 
satisfactory to the Trustee, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives if, as a result of any such implementation review, progress in the 
execution of the Project or in the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
The implementation review referred to in paragraph (a) above to be carried out 
during the second semester of 1997, or such other implementation review as the Trustee may 
determine in light of the progress of the Project, shall be considered the midterm review. Said 
midterm review shall, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (a) above also consider: 
(i) any modifications for the execution of the Project that would improve its efficiency or 
effectiveness; (ii) investment performance; and (iii) the possibility of launching a concerted 
fund-raising drive to increase FONANPE's resources. 
(c)
Following any implementation review after the midterm review, the Trustee, in 
consultation with PROFONANPE and the Recipient, may decide not to carry out any further 
semi-annual implementation reviews. The Trustee shall so inform PROFONANPE and the 
Recipient in writing, which communication shall also confirm any arrangement for the furnishing 
of periodic information about the execution of the Project to the Trustee as the Trustee, 
PROFONANPE and the Recipient may have agreed upon beforehand, particularly with respect to 
the evaluation of the long-term effectiveness of the trust fund mechanism for financing 
biodiversity conservation. Upon receipt of said communication from the Trustee, the obligation 
of PROFONANPE to submit to the Trustee draft annual work plans in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall cease. The date of said communication from 
the Trustee shall be the "later date" referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PROFONANPE
Section 3.01. PROFONANPE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound investment, administrative, financial, environmental, ecological and 
social practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Day-to-day management of PROFONANPE shall be exercised by a Project 
Coordinator with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 3.03. PROFONANPE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Trustee for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  5
Section 3.04. PROFONANPE shall ensure that its administrative expenses for 1995 shall 
not exceed the equivalent of $150,000 and that, thereafter, they shall not grow by more than five 
percent per year, except as may otherwise be approved by the Trustee on the basis of increases in 
the resources of FONANPE or other funds administered by PROFONANPE.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PROFONANPE shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition and the operations and financial condition of FONANPE, including separate 
accounts to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the Project.
(b)
PROFONANPE shall:
(i)
have its and FONANPE's records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its 
and of FONANPE's financial statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the GET Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. Unless expressly otherwise provided in this Agreement or in the 
communication from the Trustee referred to in Section 2.06 (c) of this Agreement, this 
Agreement and all obligations of the Trustee and of PROFONANPE thereunder shall terminate 
on the date on which the GET Grant Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and 
the Trustee shall promptly notify PROFONANPE thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  6
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Trustee:
Director, Country Department III,
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
   248423 (RCA),
    64145 (WUI) or
    82987 (FTCC)
For PROFONANPE: 
Libertad 114-3E
Miraflores
Lima 18
Peru
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PROFONANPE may be taken or 
executed by the Project Coordinator or such other person or persons as the Project Coordinator 
shall designate in writing, and PROFONANPE shall furnish to the Trustee sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, as of the day 
and year first above written.
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Sri-ram Aiyer
Acting Director, Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
PROFONANPE
By /s/ Ricardo Luna
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three 
suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Trustee in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, except that procedures for the solicitation of 
bids in accordance with PROFONANPE's established procurement procedures may be used 
provided such procedures have been approved by the Trustee.
Part B
:
Other
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000 per contract and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $300,000 per contract shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures approved by the Trustee in each case.
Part C
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  8
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(c)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II
. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist PROFONANPE in the carrying out of the Project, PROFONANPE 
shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected 
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Trustee in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time based-assignments, PROFONANPE shall employ such consultants 
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultant's services issued by the Bank 
for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, PROFONANPE 
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to: (a) 
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Annual Work Plans
(a)
A draft work program will be prepared by the Project Coordinator on the basis of 
an analysis of the requirements of each Protected Area. This analysis will be made jointly by the 
Project Coordinator and INRENA, will be based on Peru's Master Plan for the System of 
Protected Areas and the management plan or operating plan of each conservation unit within said 
System, and will be made in close cooperation with each Protected Area's administrative officer, 
local committees (where they exist), park officers, local grassroots organizations and local 
communities. The draft work program will be submitted by the Project Coordinator to the 
Page  9
Technical Committee for written comments. A revised draft work program will be submitted to 
PROFONANPE's Board ("Consejo Directivo
"), together with a written explanation how the 
Technical Committee's comments were taken into account. PROFONANPE shall then forward 
the revised draft work program (together with a copy of the Technical Committee's comments 
and the written explanation referred to in the previous sentence) to the Trustee not later than 
November 15 of each year for its review and comments.
(b)
All annual work plans shall contain a statement of specific objectives to be 
pursued during the year covered by the plan, a detailed description of the activities to be 
undertaken to achieve such objectives, a detailed estimate of the costs to be incurred and to be 
financed by PROFONANPE, and a procurement plan.
(c)
PROFONANPE's Board shall select the work plans, or what parts thereof, to be 
financed on the basis of the Eligibility and Selection Criteria, taking into account the comments 
of the Trustee, if any, on the work plans presented to it in accordance with paragraph (a) above 
and the comments of the Technical Committee.
2.
Technical Committee
PROFONANPE shall establish, not later than December 1, 1995 a technical committee 
with such composition, structure and terms of reference as shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Activities Eligible for Funding by PROFONANPE
(a)
Recurrent costs of the management of the Protected Areas. 
(b)
Preparation and implementation of management plans for the Protected Areas.
(c)
Establishment and management of buffer zones for the Protected Areas.
(d)
Training of professionals in park and wildlife management for the Protected 
Areas.
(e)
Environmental education and public awareness programs for communities 
associated with the Protected Areas.
(f)Projects that integrate conservation and development to benefit the communities 
living in the Protected Areas and in the buffer zones of the Protected Areas.
(g)
Institutional support for the strengthening of the field work of the Directorate 
General of Natural Protected Areas and Wildlife of INRENA or its successors.
(h)
Administrative expenses of PROFONANPE.
(i)Such other activities as the Trustee may approve upon proposal by PROFONANPE.
4.
Annual Progress Reports
Not later than April 1 of each year, PROFONANPE shall prepare and forward to the 
Trustee annual progress reports providing an overall evaluation of the execution of the Project on 
the basis of, inter alia, the Implementation Indicators.
Page  10
