Report No. PID7604
Project Name                     Vietnam-Primary Teacher Development   (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       VNPE51838
Borrower(s)                      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION & TRAINING
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION & TRAINING
49 Dai Co Viet street, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr. Nguyen Tri,
Deputy Director, Teacher Department
Tel: 84-4-8681683
Fax: 84-4-8681927
Email: ptt@hn.vnn.vn
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 6, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 3, 2000
Projected Board Date             August 27,2000
1. Country and Sector Background
In the recent past the focus of Government's education development
strategy has been to expand access to education and as a result it has
made substantial progress toward universalizing enrollment in primary
education, eliminating triple shift schooling, and improving the physical
plant in teacher training institutions.   With 90% of 14-year olds now
reportedly completing basic education, Government is turning its attention
to issues of quality and efficiency, and in particular to strengthening
the curriculum and improving the skills and management of the teaching
force. The new emphasis on quality is reflected in The Education Law
(1999), and specifically in Article 99, where educational inspection is
required to ensure 'conditions guaranteeing educational quality in
educational institutions.' It is also reflected in the new primary
curriculum, introduced in September 2000, and discussions on the
educational development strategy to 2010. A brief summary of sectoral
issues follows:Curriculum coverage. The MoET is introducing a new primary
school curriculum (MoET, 1997) designed to better prepare students for
participation in Vietnam's rapidly changing economy and society. The
curriculum envisions a significant increase in the number of hours per
week for instruction of new core and optional subjects. It also envisions
the introduction of new teaching methods and materials to support active
learning. However, schools outside of the major urban areas already find
it difficult to maintain the current, shorter school hours and to cover
all nine subjects in the curriculum. Major barriers to implementation of
the curriculum are a shortage of specialized teacher skills, low teacher
pay, a shortage of classrooms, shortages of materials, and -in the case of
very poor children- other demands on their time that keep them away from
school.Inequities. The government has a strong commitment to the
achievement of universal primary education. This is explicitly set out in



the Education Law which recognizes the duty of the state to guarantee
social equity in education and give priority to ethnic minority children
and disadvantaged groups (Article 9), and the rights of pupils to equal
treatment (Article 75). However, major inequities remain in access,
quality, spending and learning outcomes. For example, Hanoi has a 98.2%
survival rate for students between grades one and five but for Cao Bang
Province the rate is only 27.8%. Centrally allocated finance is spread
reasonably equitably, but the growth of "socialization" (parental and
community contributions to the costs of education) has led to much higher
expenditures per capita in better-off provinces. Unless financing and
management issues are dealt with there is the risk of poor families,
especially those in poor provinces, becoming chronically impoverished as
they are deprived of access to good quality basic education. Ethnic
minorities (11% of the population) face multiple challenges of poverty,
remoteness and language. Enrolment and performance are lower than the
majority Kinh population. Gender differences are also greater and far
fewer girls than boys attend school. The Government's past policy
response has been to provide a reduced 120 week curriculum for children
from remote areas or ethnic minorities (the normal primary curriculum runs
for 165 weeks). A small number of these children gain entry to
well-funded primary and secondary boarding schools for ethnic minorities
(Education Law, Article 56). These fortunate few children get a much
better education than their neighbors or siblings. The government is
reviewing its policy towards ethnic minority education, and the shortened
curriculum is being phased out. However, other problems have yet to be
tackled, such as the lack of native language teachers and incentives for
Kinh-speaking teachers to work in remote and ethnic minority areas, and
the supporting structures that would ensure provision of high quality,
highly performing teachers for all students.Teacher skills. Teachers do
not possess the basic knowledge and skills needed to deliver the new
curriculum.  Approximately 20% of teachers are "unqualified" by current
MoET regulations and a further 20% are below the current standard.    These
figures will rise with the proposed increase in the qualifications that
are required to teach and the introduction of the new, more sophisticated
curriculum. Skill shortages are reportedly highest in areas of music,
arts, physical education, technology, and foreign languages, but
Vietnamese and mathematics also remain areas of concern, particularly
outside of the major urban areas. Effective implementation of the new
curriculum will require teachers to have in-depth knowledge of the subject
matter, a deeper understanding of the context in which children learn, and
a much wider variety of teaching methods than are currently practised in
Vietnam. Teachers will need a more thorough understanding of the new
education law, and its implications for the way in which they view their
professional duties and obligations. There is therefore a clear need to
upgrading current teachers, to equip them to deliver the new curriculum,
and to provide opportunties for their professional growth. Teacher pay.
Teachers are paid below what is required to sustain a family and generally
below what teachers are paid in other poor countries (as measured by
comparing an average teacher's salary to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per
capita --Vietnam 1.7; Asia mean 2.4). Low pay makes it difficult to
attract high quality candidates to the profession, to motivate teachers
once on the job, and to keep them engaged in teaching or professional
development on a full time basis.Teacher support. The teacher assessment
system and other arrangements for management of schools (by Districts) and
teachers (by schools) are geared to a traditional curriculum and civil
- 2 -



service management scheme rather than the new set of standards for
knowledge and behaviors envisioned by the new primary curriculum. There
is a need to more clearly relate teachers' individual professional
development plans to their professional needs and to more clearly link
rewards with professional development and performance on the job.
Improving teacher performance poses challenges for the management of
teachers within schools and the management of schools by education
departments. School principals and education officials will need help to
promote and manage the reform.Teacher utilization. Within the framework
of current civil service policies and practices the Government has found
it difficult to correct imbalances in teacher deployment between rural and
urban areas, and among provinces. For example, student: teacher ratios
range from 20:1 in Ha Giang to 42:1 in Dong Nai. Furthermore, the
utilization of teachers is low, with one teacher for every 28 primary
school students and most teachers providing from 23 - 25 periods (40
minutes) of classroom teaching time per week. As a result, the wage
pressure on the budget is considerable, teachers overall are poorly paid,
and many remote schools are only able to fill posts with contract teachers
as civil servants drift back to the urban areas.Teacher training programs
and their delivery. Teacher training is delivered through a system of
normal schools, colleges, and education studies in universities. Of 92
teacher training institutions, it is possible to achieve the MoET standard
of 12+2 in only 67 institutions, 12+3 in 31 institutions, and 12+4 in 8
institutions. There are considerable differences among TTIs in terms of
facilities, equipment, and materials, and there are problems with the
quality and relevance of training. Low levels of staff qualifications,
lack of familiarity with the working needs of primary schools, and the
inability to model teaching methods envisioned by the new curriculum are
all matters of concern. Assessing student performance. The National
Institute for Educational Science recently conducted the first ever
assessment of student learning achievement. The analysis of the results
shows significant variation in learning achievement across sampled
districts, schools and children and associates this with, among other
factors, the strength of school administration, classroom resources, and
teaching practices. The issue of pupils' learning, its assessment, and
reporting is an area that needs close attention in the context of teacher
training. At least in basic skills areas (such as Vietnamese and
Mathematics), as well as in other curriculum areas regarded as central to
the nation's goals, pupils should be assessed regularly. National
assessments should provide teachers with feedback on what categories of
students might be at risk, and what teaching or management practices are
associated with success. Classroom assessments should help teachers
identify pupils that experience difficulties with learning so that they
can provide them with additional assistance. Topics on conducting and
interpreting assessments need to be included in the curriculum of the
teacher training institutions.Costs and financing. It is common practice
for schools to seek contributions from students and communities in order
to cope with the shortage of funds for development, materials, and
salaries. However, the lack of a clear and transparent framework for
collecting, accounting for, and spending local resources works to the
disadvantage of the poorest members of the community and raises questions
about the efficiency of resource management (World Bank, 1998, Brooke et
al, 1999). Secondary education. Lower secondary enrollments have
increased dramatically over the past five years from about 3 million
students to 5 million (equivalent to an increase in gross enrollment rate
-3 -



from 45%- to 67T). This has resulted in a shortage of qualified lower
secondary teachers and a shortage of physical facilities. The latter has
been addressed through double (and even triple) shifts. The former is
compounded by poor quality where it is claimed that teachers have a weak
understanding of pedagogy and limited content knowledge of the subjects
they teach. One estimate sets the number of unqualified lower secondary
teachers at 30%-. Government has a goal of universal lower secondary
education by 2010. If realized, this expansion would require an
additional 50,000 teachers. It is possible that increased demand at the
lower secondary level will lure some of the better qualified teachers away
from primary schools.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project (Phase I) is to lay the foundation for a
nationwide program to upgrade the skills of primary teachers and to
improve their working conditions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As noted above, there are several donors active in teacher training, most
on a small scale. The proposed program offers several advantages,
including:a systemic approach to upgrading teachers that links development
of professional standards with improved capacities in institutions and
authorities responsible for teacher training programs and greater
incentives for teachers to engage in professional development;long term
support through the APL instrument, creating opportunities to develop
capacity for evidence-based policy formulation that would be impossible in
a shorter project;a wide network of technical expertise;the capacity to
mobilize the large scale financing needed for such a major reform; the
ability to set reforms within the larger context of complementary
economic, financial and civil service reform programs;Reduced transaction
costs on MoET through combination of Bank and DFID support in one
integrated project.
4. Description
Development of Teacher Professional Standards. Supports a Profile
Coordination Team, application of the profile to teacher appraisal,
application of the profile to professional certification, and action
research.
Training Programs for Teachers and Education Managers. Supports a
Training Coordination Team, needs assessment and specification of the
content of training packages, preparation of trial training packages,
institutional strengthening of TTIs, provinces and districts, appraisal of
training packages and publishing, and delivery of training modules.
Quality assurance. Supports a Quality Assurance Team and strategic review
of systems, capacity building, and development of accreditation and
certification procedures.
Revision in the Terms of Service. Supports technical assistance and
research, preparation and discussion of options and supporting changes,
and consensus building activities.
Program Coordination, Capacity Strengthening, and Monitoring. Supports
program oversight, creation of a PCU and professional teams, a National
Primary Education Task Force, Provincial Primary Improvement Teams and
change agents, auditing, monitoring and evaluation, and preparation of
Phase II.
-4-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       32.8
IBRD
IDA                              88.2
BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT        24
Total Project Cost               145
6. Implementation
Phase I of the program will run for three years and will focus on just 10
provinces/cities out of the 61 in the nation. Criteria to be used in the
selection of provinces include the following:the set of provinces/cities
chosen should reflect the diverse characteristics of Vietnam's major
regions and should broadly reflect the diversity in economic and social
characteristics in Vietnam;there should be a variation in the
qualifications of primary teachers so the work on revised teachers
standards can be applied to a fully representative set of teachers;the
range of TTIs should ensure that both strong and weak institutions are
involved;the project should avoid duplication and overlap with other
projects;staff in provincial offices and TTIs should be receptive to new
ideas (this does not rule out those offices where substantial capacity
building may be required); andthere should be opportunities to link across
provinces or TTIs to provide support and to encourage quality
assurance.The program will be coordinated by the Ministry of Education and
Training, in close cooperation with other relevant Government ministries,
research institutions, provinces and teacher training institutions. The
oversight function will be carried out by (1) a inter-ministerial
committee which consists relevant ministries and MoET; and (2) existing
councils and committees of MoET, working on primary education. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MoET is responsible for
coordinating all project activities and will be led by a manager assisted
by four coordinators for each of the professional areas of teachers
standards; training program design; quality assurance; and teacher
employment regulations and terms of service. These coordinators each lead
technical teams drawn from skilled professionals in the education sector
and relevant government units. Each technical team will carry out the
activities for their specific component. Monitoring and evaluation of the
project will take place through regular reporting of project specific
impact and implementation indicators. In parallel with the implementation
of the project, the regular assessment of student performance will be
conducted through national student assessment program (a consultant is
in the field in mid April specifying monitoring and evaluation activities
and the design of the a program of educational research to monitor
qualitative improvements in primary teachers and parallel improvements in
pupils learning attainment). Financial ManagementThe firm of Grant Thorton
conducted a financial management assessment of the project's financial
management system and published the results of their assessment in a
report dated March 9, 2000. Significant elements of that system had not
been put in place at the time of the assessment. Therefore, the financial
management system will need to be improved before the project becomes
effective. The information presented in Annex 6 more fully describes the
procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements, and
outlines the major actions that need to be taken for this project to meet
minimum requirements for financial management. The effectiveness
- 5-



conditions anticipated related to financial management are presented in
Section G.The Ministry of Education and Training (MoET), through a Project
coordination Unit, will be responsible for the financial management of the
project, including the areas of accounting, audit coordination, internal
control, records management and reporting. The MoET uses the Vietnamese
Administrative Accounting System and will use a chart of accounts that
will allow it to also report transactions on the cash basis under
international accounting standards. Once the action plan items presented
in Annex 6 have been implemented, the project should be able to produce
periodic reports and annual special purpose financial statements. These
statements will include a Project/Statement of Expenditure (SOE) Statement
and a Statement of Special Account, which will be audited and presented to
the World Bank within six months of the end of each full fiscal
year.Private sector auditors will be selected under a competitive process
from a list of qualified firms maintained by the World Bank. The auditors
will use international auditing standards and will be appointed as soon as
project funds are disbursed. The auditors terms of reference will include
the requirement to provide separate assurance on local training costs, due
to their greater susceptibility to misuse. Audit costs will be financed
under the project.The project will produce cash basis Project Management
Reports (PMR) within 18 months of the date it becomes effective. The
formats were agreed to by the MoET (state the forum where these were
agreed to). When reliable PMRs are being produced, the borrower will
decide whether it wants project funds to be disbursed based upon them.
Until then, project funds will be disbursed using traditional SOE
procedures.Much of the responsibility for management and delivery of the
program will fall on the provinces and districts. Project funds will be
passed from the central government to the selected provinces on a grant
basis. There will be no onlending. MoET has an important role,
particularly in the early stages, in curriculum development, in setting
professional standards and as facilitator of wider change. Provinces will
need (with initial support from MoET) to develop networks linking TTIs,
districts and schools initially to apply the new professional standards
and test new training modules (developed centrally) and subsequently to
implement in service training based on the needs identified by teacher
assessments. Co-financing from DFID on grant terms will be made available
on joint basis and will follow the same procedures and guidelines as
those adopted for the IDA credit. A Trust Fund Administration Agreement
between DFID and the World Bank will be executed to govern the
administration of the DFID Trust Fund grant by the Bank. The DFID Trust
Fund grant will be executed by the recipient, the Government of Vietnam,
and a Grant Agreement between the Government of Vietnam and the World Bank
will be executed to govern the use of the DFID grant funds channeled
through the Bank to Vietnam.
7. Sustainability
Two factors are critical for sustainability. The first is the ability of
the Government to provide budgetary support for improved teacher
salaries. Improving salaries is key to achieving other goals of
increasing the utilization of teachers and providing incentives for
professional development. The Government introduced a pay raise of 25t
in January 2000. However, it is evident that further increases -- linked
to changes in the expectations for teacher performance -- will be
required. Wage increases of course put pressure on the non-wage bill, and
this is an issue of particular concern for poor areas where spending on
- 6 -



books and materials is already low and schools depend on contract teachers
who are funded from the non-salary budget. A study of primary education
financing and budgetary systems and the Public Expenditure Review (PER)
for education have highlighted the problems created by the inequitable
distribution of resources which severely constrain educational services in
poorer districts and provinces. The problem is better addressed through
the later work planned as a result of the PER. There will be a need to
take stock of progress periodically and at the end of the foundation
phase. The second sustainability issue is one of skills and capacity,
particularly in the areas of management and quality assurance. Teacher
profiles, accreditation standards, and teacher evaluation processes will
need continuous revision as the needs of teachers and institutions
change. During the project the MoET will seek to develop skills and
capacities for developing and using professional profiles, teacher
appraisal, and training program assessment.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lesson from the ongoing primary education project is that
implementation responsibility needs to correctly reflect the hierarchy of
responsibilities within the many layers of Government responsible for
delivering education. These include various national level ministries and
institutes, provincial departments of education, district bureaus, and
individual schools and colleges. This program will work with the MoET and
relevant national level institutions on systemic issues, but directly with
provinces and teacher training institutions to implement the quality
improvement grants. The program also draws four lessons from the
literature on teacher training reform and the Bank's broader experience
with teacher training programs (World Bank,1996; Shulman, 1986; Cuban,
Larry and Tyack, 1995):Teacher education needs to develop at least three
basic types of knowledge. Subject matter content knowledge (the amount
and organization of knowledge in the mind of the teacher), pedagogical
content knowledge (the ways of representing and formulating the subject
that make it comprehensible to others), and curricular knowledge
(knowledge of alternative curriculum materials such as texts, visual aids,
demonstrations, and "invitations to enquiry"). These dimensions of
knowledge will be built into the teacher professional profile and into the
design of training programs.Teacher training reform is a long term process
that often involves substantial changes in policy and organization.
Understanding teacher behavior in the classroom is key to pitching reforms
at an appropriate pace and scale. Projects seeking major changes in
classroom behavior should therefore build in substantial opportunities for
learning and a strong monitoring and evaluation process to guide policy
makers. This project includes provisions for action research, extensive
pilot testing, and substantial monitoring and evaluation.The sequencing of
reforms is critical. It is important to sequence major reforms in
curriculum and textbooks before large scale teacher training reforms, and
to put incentives for behavioral change in place before offering training
or introducing revised terms of service. This sequencing is reflected in
the different phases of the APL and in the positioning of this project
within the context of ongoing reforms in curriculum and textbooks.Finally,
it is necessary to ensure linkages between proposed revisions in teacher
remuneration or terms of service and broader work on civil service reform
and analysis of public expenditures. This project has benefited from the
analytical work association with the Public Expenditure Review (PER). It
is expected that the PER will provide a strong basis on which to begin
-7 -



discussions on the revisions of the teacher terms of service, and that in
turn will provide a foundation for discussions on broader civil service
reform issues.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The program will contribute to improved
environmental awareness by training teachers to deliver the revised
primary school curriculum. In this curriculum, seventeen weeks of
learning (out of a total of 165 weeks in primary schooling) are devoted to
the theme nature, society and health; of this 10 sessions deal directly or
indirectly with environmental education. Proposed changes in teaching
methods emphasize problem solving and active student learning with the
hope that this will develop in students a propensity to engage in local
issues and the capacity to develop creative solutions to problems. Hence
a project which provides teachers with the professional skills and
technical knowledge to deliver the curriculum can be expected to increase
students' concerns for the environment and its sustainability.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christopher P. Shaw
Email: Cpshaw@worldbank.org
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (84-4) 8-432-264
Fax:   (84-4) 8-432-471
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 8 -



