Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20276-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
(US$19.84 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF
PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
NOVEMBER 14, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/31/2001)
Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
15,029 VND = USS1.0
USSI.27414 = 1 SDR
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
AusAID   -  AustraGan Agency for International Development
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
CPAR      -  Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSP       -  Countiy Strategy Paper (DFID)
DFID      -  UK Department For Intemational Development
DoET      -  Department of Education and Training
EMTCs   -  Educational Management Training Colleges
EU        -  European Union
GCOP      -  Government Committee on Organization and Personnel
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GoV       -  Government of Vietnam
HPAEs   -  High Performing Asian Economies
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IBRD      -  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       -  Intemational Development Association
JICA      -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MoET      -  Ministry of Education and Training
NBF       -  Non-Bank Financed
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
NGO       -  Non-Government Organization
NIES      -  National Institute of Educational Studies
PCU       -  Project Coordination Unit
PER       -  Public Expenditure Review
PETS      -  Provincial Education and Training Services
PHRD      -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PMIS      -  Personnel Management Information System
PMR       -  Project Management Report
PSR       -  Project Supervision Rating
QA        -  Quality Assurance
QBS       -  Quality Based Selection
QCBS      -  Quality and Cost Based Selection
SIL       -  Specific Investment Loan
SOE       -  Statement of Expenditure
TTI       -  Teacher Training Institution
UNICEF   -  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
VLSS      -  Vietnam Living Standards Survey
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Steer
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Christopher P. Shaw



VIETNAM
PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          8
3. Benefits and target population                                                         8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                   13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              14
2. Financial                                                                             15
3. Technical                                                                             17
4. Institutional                                                                         17
5. Social                                                                                18
6. Environmental                                                                         20
7. Participatory Approach                                                                20



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      21
2. Critical risks                                                                       22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       24
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              24
2. Other                                                                                25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           46
A.nnex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     :58
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      '74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              79
Annex 11: Performance Indicators and Sample Provincial Scorecard                           81
Annex 12: Notes and References                                                             83
MAP(S)
IBRD 31618



VIETNAM
PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: November 14, 2001                          Team Leader: Christopher P. Shaw
Country Manager/Director: Andrew D. Steer        Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Project ID: P051838                              Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [] Grant     [ ]Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 19.84 million equivalent; SDR 15.6 million.
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      5.50           0.12          5.62
IDA                                                           7.85           11.99         19.84
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                      4.35           5.94          10.29
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
Total:                                                       17.70           18.05        35.75
Borrower: SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION & TRAiNING
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION & TRAINING
Address: 49 Dai Co Viet Street, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr. Nguyen Tri, Deputy Director, Teacher Department
Tel: 84-4-8681683           Fax: 84-4-8681927            Email: ptt@hn.vnn.vn
Address: Primary Teachers Training Project; c/o Ministry of Education and Training; 49 Dai Co Viet street, Hanoi
Contact Person: as above
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2003        2004      2005      2006
Annual    1.00        4.00      7.00       5.00      2.84
Cumulative    1.00       5.00      12.00      17.00     19.84
Project implementation period: January 1, 2002 - June 30, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 03/29/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD Fa,, A. Ma, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to lay the foundation for a nationwide program to upgrade the quality of the
primary teaching service.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
By the end of the project:
*   A new set of professional standards for primary teachers, expressed as a professional profile,
should be drafted, tested, revised and agreed with key stakeholders.
*   Training modules should be developed, trialed, approved by MoET, and in use.
*   Guidelines for teacher training program accreditation should be drafted, tested, revised and agreed
with key stakeholders.
* Guidelines for teacher classification should be drafted, tested, revised and agreed with key
stakeholders.
* Options for revised terms of service and remuneration should be identified, agreed with key
stakeholders and drafted into regulation.
*   Government should demonstrate a readiness to expand the Primary Teacher Development Project
to other provinces and will have developed a credible plan for program expansion.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS 18375 & IDA/R2001-0160    Date of latest CAS discussion: October 25, 200
The main goal of the Government (as expressed in its 2010 Strategy), the World Bank (as expressed in the
CAS) and DFID (as expressed in its CSP) is to provide a high quality basic education for all children, so
as to improve their abilities to participate in Vietnam's changing economy and society. The project will
contribute to this goal by helping the Government to build a high quality, efficient, professional teaching
service, capable of teaching the new curriculum and addressing emerging requirements in primary
education. An Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) was discussed on April 12th, 2001
IDA/SECM2001-0224.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The past focus of Government's primary education development strategy has been to expand access. It
has made substantial progress toward universalizing enrollments in primary education, eliminating triple
shift schooling, and improving the physical facilities in teacher training institutions and schools. With
90% of children enrolling in primary education, Government is turning its attention to issues of quality
and efficiency, and in particular to strengthening the curriculum and improving the skills and management
of the teaching force. The new emphasis on quality is reflected in The Education Law (1999), the new
primary curriculum, and the Educational Strategy for the period up to 2010. A summary of sectoral
issues follows:
The new primary school curriculum requires teachers with new skills and work habits. From 2002
MoET is gradually introducing a new primary school curriculum designed to better prepare students for
participation in Vietnam's rapidly changing economy and society. The curriculum envisages a significarlt
increase in the number of hours per week for instruction and separation into core and optional subjects. It
- 2 -



also calls for the introduction of new teaching methods and materials to support active leaming. Effective
implementation of the new curriculum will require teachers to have in-depth knowledge of the subject
matter, a deeper understanding of the context in which children leam, and a much wider variety of
teaching methods than are currently practiced in Vietnam. However, schools outside of the major urban
areas already find it difficult to maintain the current, shorter school hours and to cover all nine subjects in
the curriculum. Major barriers to implementation of the new curriculum are a shortage of specialized
teacher skills, low teacher pay and motivation, a shortage of classrooms, shortages of materials, and in the
case of very poor children, other demands on their time and resources that keep them away from school.
Introduction of the new curriculum will be particularly difficult for inexperienced or under-qualified
teachers - usually found in more remote areas - who have not had exposure to active learning teaching and
learning methods.
Government needs to concentrate more human andfinancial resources on reducing inequities in
educational outcomes. The government's commitment to universalizing primary education is explicitly set
out in the Education Law. It recognizes the duty of the state to guarantee equity in education and give
priority to ethnic minority children and disadvantaged groups (Article 9), and the rights of pupils to equal
treatment (Article 75). However, major inequities remain in access, quality, spending and leaming
outcomes. For example, the survival rate for students between grades one and five is 98% in Hanoi but
only 28% in Cao Bang Province. Centrally allocated finance is spread reasonably equitably, but the
increased emphasis on "socialization" (parental and community contributions to the costs of education)
leads to much higher expenditures per capita in better-off provinces. Ethnic minorities ( 11% of the
population) face multiple challenges of poverty, remoteness and language. Their enrollment and
performance are generally lower than the majority Kinh population. Gender differences are also greater
for most ethnic minority groups, with far fewer girls than boys attending school. The government is
reviewing its policy towards ethnic minority education, and the shortened curriculum on offer in some
areas is being phased out. However, the Government has yet to tackle the shortage of teachers with
minority language capability and incentives for Kinh-speaking teachers to work in remote and ethnic
minority areas, and the supporting structures that would ensure provision of high quality, highly
performing teachers for all students.
There are major skill gaps in the teaching force. Approximately 20% of teachers are "unqualified" by
current MoET regulations and a further 20% fall below the current standard of "12+2". These figures
will rise with the proposed increase in the qualifications that are required to teach and the introduction of
the new, more sophisticated curniculun. Skill shortages are reportedly highest in areas of music, arts,
physical education, technology, and foreign languages, but Vietnamese and Mathematics also remain
areas of concern, particularly outside of the major urban areas. Teachers themselves recognize these
needs: in the 1998 Stakeholder Analysis they rated teaching standards and training as their second most
important concern (behind classroom space). There is therefore a clear need to upgrade current teachers,
to equip them to deliver the new curriculum, and to provide opportunities for their professional growth.
Teacher pay and incentive systems need to be restructured to attract talented teacher candidates and
ensure their continued professional development. Teachers are paid below what is required to sustain a
family and generally below what teachers are paid in other poor countries. Teacher pay averages 1.7
times GDP per capita in Vietnam compared to an average of 2.4 times GDP per capita in Asia.
Furthermore pay scales are relatively flat and salary increases are largely deternined by years of service
rather than by professional advancement or performance. Low pay makes it difficult to attract high
quality candidates to the profession, and weak incentive systems make it difficult to motivate teachers to
teach full time or engage in professional development.
-3 -



Support systems for classroom instruction need to be strengthened. The teacher assessment system and
other arrangements for management of schools (by districts) and teachers (by schools) are geared to a
traditional curriculum and civil service management scheme rather than the new set of standards for
knowledge and behaviors envisaged by the new primary curriculum. There is a need to more clearly relate
teachers' individual professional development plans to their professional needs, to more clearly link
rewards with professional development and performance on the job, and to develop more comprehensive
school improvement plans. This implies the need to build capacity among school principals and local
level education managers, i.e. DEO's and inspectors.
Teachers should be utilized more efficiently. Within the framework of current civil service policies and
practices, the Government has found it difficult to correct imbalances in teacher deployment between rural
and urban areas, and between provinces. For example, student: teacher ratios range from 20:1 in Ha
Giang to 42:1 in Dong Nai. Furthermore, the utilization of teachers is low, with one teacher for every 28
primary school students and most teachers providing from 23 - 25 periods (each 40 minutes) of classroom
teaching time per week. As a result, the wage pressure on the budget is considerable, teachers overall are
poorly paid, and many remote schools are only able to fill posts with contract teachers as civil servants
drift to the urban areas where working conditions are better and supplemental income eaming
opportunities are greater.
Teacher training pro grams need to be strengthened. Teacher training is delivered through a system of
normal schools, colleges, and education studies in universities. Of 92 teacher training institutions, it is
possible to achieve the MoET standard of 12+2 in only 67 institutions, 12+3 in 31 institutions, and 12+4
in 8 institutions. There are considerable differences among ITIs in terms of facilities, equipment, and
materials, and there are problems with the quality and relevance of training. Low levels of staff
qualifications, lack of familiarity with the working needs of primary schools, and the inability to model
teaching methods envisaged by the new curriculum are all matters of concern. The teaching force is
young (73% of teachers are under 40 years old and 40% are under 30 years old); any large scale program
to upgrade the teaching service would therefore need to have a strong focus on in-service, school-based or
distance education programs.
Student performance needs to be assessed on a regular basis. The National Institute for Educational
Science recently conducted the first ever assessment of student leaming achievement. The analysis of the
results shows significant variation in learning achievement across sampled districts, schools and children
and associates this with, among other factors, the strength of school administration, classroom resources,
and teaching practices. The issue of pupils' learning, its assessment, and reporting is an area that needs
close attention in the context of teacher training. At least in basic skills areas (such as Vietnamese and
Mathematics), as well as in other curriculum areas regarded as central to the nation's goals, pupils should
be assessed regularly. National assessments should provide teachers with feedback on what categories of
students might be at risk, and what teaching or management practices or other factors are associated with
success. Classroom assessments should help teachers identify pupils who experience difficulties with
learning so that they can provide them with additional assistance. Topics on conducting and interpreting
assessments need to be included in the curriculum of the teacher training institutions.
The Government needs to plan for the rapid growth of secondary education and consider its potential
impact on the primary system. Lower secondary enrollments have increased dramatically over the past
five years from about 3 million students to 5 million (equivalent to an increase in the gross enrollment rate
from 45% to 67%). This has resulted in a shortage of qualified lower secondary teachers and a shortage
of physical facilities. The latter has been addressed through double (and even triple) shifts. The former is
compounded by poor quality where it is claimed that teachers have a weak understanding of pedagogy and
-4-



limited content knowledge of the subjects they teach. One estimate sets the number of unqualified lower
secondary teachers at 30%. Government has a goal of universal lower secondary education by 2010. If
realized, this expansion would require substantial additional secondary teachers. It is possible that
increased demand at the lower secondary level will lure some of the better qualified teachers away from
primary schools.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Inequities in access to basic education are being reduced rapidly. However, the primary education system
does not provide a minimum level of quality to every pupil and thus learning outcomes vary widely.
There are especially large differences in educational quality between pupils from urban areas and their
peers in remote mountainous locations.
Research on student achievement in Vietnam suggests that educational achievement could be significantly
improved through the provision of more teaching and learning resources for schools, better qualified
teachers, and better management of resources by teachers and principals (Kieu & Griffin, 2000). This
project supports a program of systemic reforms aimed at some of the most crucial determinants of student
learning - the skills and work habits of primary school teachers and principals. It is set within the context
of several other development projects in Vietnam that help schools "organize for learning" by addressing
other critical determinants of learning, such as curriculum, books and materials, facilities, and resource
management (See Section D.2.).
MoET, the Bank and DFID drew on research and expert policy advice to identify a few key areas where
interventions would likely have a strategic impact on teachers' skills and behaviors, and ultimately on
student achievement. This has led to a focus on:
*   Development ofprofessional standards for teachers andprincipals that identify core sets of
knowledge, skills, competencies and values that all primary teachers should have, as well as
supporting skills needed by teachers in particular locations. Specifying such standards as levels
within a professional profile for teachers allows the systematic identification of teachers' greatest
professional needs, enhancement of training programs, provision of a benchmark for new teachers,
and measurement of professional growth.
*   Design and delivery of training modules and pathways that allow all teachers to achieve
standards set out in the profile. (Within this context, Government ministries held a long debate
about the proportion of project funds that would be allocated to equipment and furniture for MTIs
to increase their permanent capacity and coverage of training programs. Government chose to
reduce the original target of training 57,000 teachers (100% of teachers in the 10 pilot provinces)
during the life of this project to 25,000, while increasing the allocations for equipment and
fumiture in TTIs.)
*  Development of quality assurance mechanisms to monitor and ensure the quality of teacher
training programs, support assessment of teachers according to standards of good professional
practice, and help schools implement reforms.
*   Revision of teacher terms of service and remuneration to encourage high quality candidates to
enter and stay in the profession, ensure better links between teacher deployment and need,
encourage better utilization of teacher skills, and facilitate exit from the teaching service for those
teachers who are unable to meet minimum standards.
*   Building management and technical capacity at central, provincial, district, and school levels to
support these reforms.
-5 -



Elements of a Systemic Program to Improve Student Achievement
Student
Achieveinent
Goals
Schools                                  Teacher
Organized                                 Standards
for Learning
High Quality
Incentives for              Teacher
Knowledge                Education &
and Skills              Development
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project: (i) builds the new "vision" of a professional teacher by developing a new, multidimensional
teacher professional profile, (ii) develops training courses and provides in-service training opportunities for
teachers and education managers, (iii) develops quality assurance mechanisms and procedures, including
course/program accreditation, teacher classification, and personnel management, (iv) develops proposals
and builds consensus for reform in teachers' terms of service, and (v) builds institutional capacity at the
national, provincial and local levels to carry out larger scale reforms in teacher training and management.
While the initial focus is on ten provinces, the project lays the foundation for a nationwide program to
upgrade the quality of all primary teachers.
-6 -



Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Development of teacher professional   Primary Education   1.01       2.8       0.19        1.0
standards (profile). Support for a
Profile Coordination Team,
application of the profile to training
courses, application of the profile to
teacher assessment, and action
research to refine the profile.
Training Programs for teachers and    Pnrmary Education  26.15      73.1      17.14      86.4
education managers. Support for a
Training Coordination Team; needs
assessment and soecification of the
content of training packages;
preparation of trial training packages;
improving the capacity of TTIs,
provinces and districts; appraisal of
training packages and publishing, and
delivery of training modules.
Quality assurance. Support for a  Primary Education       3.68      10.3       1.90        9.6
Quality Assurance Team,
improvements in the personnel
management information system,
development of accreditation and
teacher classification procedures,
cornmunications and training for school
improvement.
Revision in the Terms of Service for   Primary Education  0.50       1.4       0.03        0.2
Teachers. Support for technical
assistance and research, preparation
and discussion of options and
supporting changes, and consensus
building activities.
Project Coordination, Capacity    Primary Education       4.41      12.3       0.58        2.9
Strengthening, and Monitoring.
Support for project oversight, creation
of a PCU and professional teams,
provincial and district teams;
monitoring and evaluation; and
preparation for program expansion.
Total Project Costs                    35.75      100.0     19.84      100.0
Total Financing Required                      35.75     100.0      19.84      100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project seeks improvements in policies that currently govern management of the teaching service.
Weaknesses in current policies are evidenced by the difficulties education managers have in: implementir.g
the curriculum; creating high quality learning opportunities for all children; balancing the supply of and
demand for teachers across regions; attracting high quality candidates to the profession; building a cadre of
teachers dedicated to teaching full-time; and moderating the rapid spread of private tuition. In the period
leading up to project effectiveness and during the project itself, options will be explored for improving
management of the teaching force, raising questions such as:
*   What are the professional standards that teachers should aspire to? The project seeks to broader.
the current definition of teacher professionalism to reflect the teacher's competency in subject
matter, understanding of the context of children's learning, pedagogical skills, curricular
knowledge, professional ethics, and initiative and leadership.
* How can the Govemrnment best equip the training system to prepare new teachers and to upgrade
existing teachers? The project seeks to create high quality teacher training programs that are
amenable to continuous innovation and delivery through a variety of training modes.
e   What should be the roles of the national, provincial and local authorities in ensuring the quality of
training and the fair assessment of teachers' skills? The project will establish accreditation
procedures for teacher training programs and classification procedures for teachers.
*   What regulatory and reward structures would encourage teachers to engage in professional
development and reward good professional practice? The project will promote appropriate
revisions in the terms of service and remuneration policies that will encourage and reward
professional development and good professional practice.
*   What other changes are necessary to create a supportive institutional environment at the school,
district, provincial and national levels to create a dynamic environment for the development of the
teaching force? The project will require a shift in the perceived roles of leadership and management
- moving towards a leadership style that relies less on directives and inspections to achieve goals
and more on providing services of professional guidance, inquiries, and evaluation for trainers anc;
teachers committed to self-improvement.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to provide improved training, better understanding and professional skills to
primary school teachers, principals and teacher trainers. In the longer-term, this will impact on students'
leaming and achievement. However, such improvements in student performance are not likely to
materialize substantially during the project. Activities will focus on ten selected pilot provinces and teacker
training programs offered by TTIs and others. If the project is successful, the benefits should spread
system-wide as the Government plans to implement innovations introduced through this project throughout
the country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
rhe project will run for just over three and one-half years and will focus on 10 provinces/cities out of the
61 in the nation. Criteria used in the selection of provinces included the following:
* the set of provinces/cities chosen should reflect the diverse characteristics of Vietnam's major
regions and should broadly reflect the diversity in economic and social characteristics in Vietnam:
* there should be a variation in the qualifications of primary teachers so the work on revised teachers
standards can be applied to a fully representative set of teachers;
- 8 -



*   the range of TTIs should ensure that both strong and weak institutions are involved;
*   the project should coordinate with other projects where appropriate (e.g. in quality assurance for
TTIs that are also covered under the Govemment/ADB secondary teacher training project);
* staff in provincial offices and TTIs should be receptive to new ideas (this does not rule out those
offices where substantial capacity building may be required); and
* there should be opportunities to link across provinces and TTIs to provide implementation support.
The project will be coordinated by the Ministry of Education and Training, in close cooperation with other
relevant Government ministries, research institutions, provinces and teacher training institutions. The
oversight function will be carried out by an inter-ministerial project steering committee which consists of
representatives from relevant ministries and MoET departments. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of
the MoET is responsible for coordinating all project activities and will be led by a manager assisted by four
coordinators for each of the professional areas (teachers standards; training program development; quality
assurance; and teacher employment regulations / tenns of service). These coordinators each lead technical
teams drawn from skilled professionals in the education sector and relevant government units. Each
technical team will carry out the activities for their specific component. Purchasing and procurement of all
goods and the majority of services required by the project (except local training) will be managed centrally
by the PCU.
Monitoring and evaluation of the project will take place through regular reporting of project specific impact
and implementation indicators (See Annex 11). In parallel with the implementation of the project, the
regular assessment of student performance will be conducted through a national student assessment
program. The design, sampling frame, and analytical framework of the national assessment has already
been developed with support from the current Primary Education Project.
Financial Management
The firm of Grant Thornton conducted a financial management assessment of the project's financial
management system, with a view to assessing its readiness for project implementation, and published the
results of their assessment in a report dated March 9, 2000. Significant elements of that system had not
been put in place at the time of the assessment and the PCU does not at this time have the capacity to
produce full Project Management Reports (PMRs). Therefore, the financial management system will need
to be improved before the project becomes effective. The information presented in Annex 6 more fully
describes the procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements, and outlines the major
actions that need to be taken for this project to meet minimum requirements for financial management. The
effectiveness conditions anticipated related to financial management are presented in Section G.
The Ministry of Education and Training, through a Project Coordination Unit, will be responsible for the
financial management of the project, including the areas of accounting, audit coordination, internal control,
records management and reporting. The MoET uses the Vietnamese Administrative Accounting System
and will use a chart of accounts that will allow it to also report transactions on the cash basis under
international accounting standards and keep separate records of transactions financed by IDA and DFID
funds. Annual project financial statements will be prepared, audited and presented to the World Bank
within six months of the end of each full fiscal year. In addition, the auditors will be required to provide an
opinion on the operation of the Special Account and on the adequacy of the Statements of Expenditures as
a basis for disbursements.
Independent auditors will be selected under a competitive process from a list of qualified firms maintained
by the World Bank. The auditors will use international auditing standards and will be appointed as soon as
-9-



project funds are disbursed. The auditor's terms of reference will include the requirement to provide
separate assurance on local training costs, due to their greater susceptibility to misuse. Audit costs will h,e
financed under the project.
The project will produce "simplified" cash-basis Project Management Reports with effect from the end of
the first full calendar quarter after disbursements commence. These formats have been agreed with the
MoET and PCU during the appraisal mission. Within 18 months of the first disbursement, and provided
reliable PMRs are capable of being produced by the PCU, the borrower and IDA will jointly agree on
whether or not to move to disbursements based on the PMR. Until then, project funds will be disbursed
using traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedures.
Much of the responsibility for management and delivery of the project will fall on the provinces and
districts. Training funds will be passed from the central government to the selected provinces on a grant
basis. There will be no on-lending. MoET has an important role, particularly in the early stages, in
curriculum development, in setting professional standards and as facilitator of wider change. Provinces
will need (with initial support from MoET) to develop networks linking TTIs, PETs, districts and schools
initially to apply the new professional standards and test new training modules (developed centrally) and
subsequently to implement in-service training based on the needs identified by teacher assessments.
Co-financing from DFID on grant terms will be made available on a joint basis and will follow the same
procedures and guidelines as those of the IDA credit. A Memorandum of Understanding between DFID
and the World Bank will be executed to govern the administration of the DFID Trust Fund grant by the
Bank. The DFID Trust Fund grant will be executed by the recipient (the Government of Vietnam) and a
Grant Agreement between the Government of Vietnam and the World Bank will be executed to govern the
use of the DFID grant funds channeled through the World Bank to thee Government of Vietnam.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative L A sector adjustment operation. Because of the significant policy content of this operation
the team considered the option of a sector adjustment operation. This was rejected because the short time
horizon of adjustment operations does not match the need for long term commitment required to sustain the
educational reforms proposed by the project, and because of difficulty in directing resources from
adjustment operations to the specific investments that are required in the sector.
Alternative II: An Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Taking the project to scale will require substantial
consensus building among a large number of stakeholders and a rather lengthy sequence of institution
building and investments. The implementation period for the Government's national teacher reform
program will likely stretch upwards to ten years, making an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) a viable
option. In fact, the project was originally designed as an APL, but the Government decided to request
assistance only for what was the first, or foundation, phase of the APL. Government has committed to
assess the need for additional extemal financing at least six months before the end of the project.
Alternative III: An investmentfocused narrowly on teacher training institutions. Several national
targeted programs and donor projects aim to improve the physical capacity of specific TTIs to deliver
training. Others deliver training directly to teachers (see table below on major related projects). To a
greater or lesser extent, each project has a distinct geographical target, methodological approach, and timre
frame. These projects provide a good basis for experimenting with new ideas, but it is difficult to see how
- 1 0 -



they add up to a coherent training strategy without addressing fundamental issues of standards, terms of
service, and remuneration. Indeed, the "patchwork" approach carries with it significant risks:
*   if projects are not well coordinated, the Government risks losing opportunities to learn from them
systematically, and risks developing a system so diverse that it becomes unmanageable;
*   the variety in projects confuses client institutions and teachers, who may simultaneously be the
beneficiary of several projects; and
*   the failure to address systemic problems gives way to a series of "second-best" solutions designed
to address "symptoms" rather than to tackle underlying causes of low motivation, failure to
innovate, etc. Many of the solutions are unsustainable on a large scale or, when taken as a whole,
lack the coherence of a strong national policy.
The Government and Bank felt that a narrowly focused project that upgraded capacity in a limited number
of institutions would not address critical systemic issues of: vision and standards; quality assurance; and
incentives. Nor would the good work done in a few TTIs necessarily have a "cascading" effect through the
system. It therefore opted for an investment operation with a substantial focus on systemic issues,
reasoning that procedures and tools developed and applied successfully under this project could then be
generalized to the whole system.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only
Implementadon   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DCO)
Primary school facilities and materials  Primary Education (ongoing)  S           S
Primary Education for
Disadvantaged Children (in
preparation)
Quality of higher education       Higher Education (ongoing)        S             S
Other development agencies
Primary teacher training          Save the Children/Australia
Teacher Training
Oxfam Teacher Training
Belgium Distance Education
Belgium Northem Regional
Normal Schools
Secondary teacher training        ADB Lower Secondary Teacher
Training
DFID and AusAID English
language training projects
Secondary education               ADB Secondary Education
Master Plan
ADB Lower Secondary Schools
Development
Policy making & capacity building  EU Education Project
Non-formnal education             UNICEF Flexible Education
and Ethnic Minorities
Education
Primary Education                 JICA Primary Educationa
Development Plan and
JICA Primary School
Construction
Education in disadvantaged areas  UNICEF Project for Ethnic
Minority Education
Early childhood education         UNICEF Early Childhood
Education
Pre-school teacher training       UNICEF Pre-school Teacher
Training
Higher level training             French and Australian
scholarship projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lesson from the ongoing primary education project is that the implementation structure needs to
correctly reflect the hierarchy of responsibilities within the many layers of Government responsible for
delivering education. These include various national level ministries and institutes, provincial departments
of education, district bureaus, and individual schools and colleges. This project will work with MoET and
relevant national level institutions on systemic issues, and directly with provinces, teacher training
institutions and PETs to implement the teacher training programs. The project also draws lessons from the
literature on teacher training reform (Shulman, 1986; Cuban and Tyack, 1995):
*   Teacher education needs to develop at least three basic types of knowledge: (i) subject matter
content knowledge --the amount and organization of knowledge in the mind of the teacher; (ii)
pedagogical content knowledge --the ways of representing and formulating the subject that make it
comprehensible to others; and (iii) curricular knowledge --knowledge of alternative curriculum
materials such as texts, visual aids, demonstrations, and "invitations to enquiry". These
dimensions of knowledge will be built into the teacher professional profile and into the design of
training programs.
*   Teacher training reform is a long term process that often involves substantial changes in policy and
organization. Understanding teacher practice in the classroom is key to pitching reforms at an
appropriate pace and scale. Projects seeking major changes in classroom practice should therefore
build in substantial opportunities for learning and a strong monitoring and evaluation process to
guide policy makers. This project includes provisions for action research, extensive pilot testing,
and substantial monitoring and evaluation.
3   The sequencing of reforms is critical. It is important to sequence major reforms in curriculum and
textbooks before large scale teacher training reforms, and to offer training before introducing
revised terms of service. This sequencing is reflected in the positioning of this project within the
context of ongoing reforms in curriculum and textbooks, and the planned introduction of revised
terms of service before large program expansion.
Finally, it is necessary to ensure linkages between proposed revisions in teacher remuneration or terms of
service and broader work on civil service reform and analysis of public expenditures. This project has
benefited from the analytical work associated with the Public Expenditure Review (PER). It is expected
that the PER will provide a strong basis on which to begin discussions on the revisions of teacher terms of
service, and that in turn will provide a foundation for discussions on broader civil service reform issues.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Govermnent recently (1999) passed a new education law that makes it State policy to upgrade
teachers' professional skills, encourages teachers to engage in professional development throughout their
careers, and commits to placing teachers in the highest range of the administrative and salary scales. The
law further commits to extra benefits for teachers in difficult areas. The Government is backing up these
policies with large investments through National Targeted Programs for infrastructure in teacher training
institutions, civil service pay increases, teacher training delivery, and supplementary funding for poor and
minority areas.
Preparation of the project was guided by an inter-ministerial committee made up of representatives from the
MoET, Ministry of Finance, the State Bank, and Ministry of Planning and Investment, and the Government
Committee on Organization and Personnel. The Government/Bank/DFID team held discussions with key
policy makers across the spectrum of political, professional, and administrative units concerned with
primary education and were impressed by the consistency of views that much more needs to be done to
- 13-



improve the quality of teacher training, to improve teachers' living conditions, and to strengthen teachers'
performance on the job (World Bank Aide Memoires 1999--200 1). Government representatives feel that
this project will make a major contribution, particularly in developing the "software" of teacher training, a;
Government has already committed significant resources to improving the primary curriculum and physical
facilities. Key Government Ministries have affirmed their support for this program through comments
provided to MoET on its program feasibility study (the Govermment equivalent of the PAD).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
As noted above, there are several donors active in primary teacher training, some on a small scale. The
proposed project offers several advantages, including:
*   a systemic approach to upgrading teachers that links development of professional standards with
improved capacities in institutions and authorities responsible for teacher training programs and
greater incentives for teachers to engage in professional development;
* a global pool of technical assistance;
* the positioning of reforms within the larger context of complementary economic, financial and
civil service reform programs;
o   reduced transaction costs on MoET through a combination of Bank and DFID support in one
integrated project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The appraisal team drew the following conclusions from a review of' research on the economics of
education in Vietnam and intemationally:
t   Investments in education in Vietnam yield substantial (and very likely, increasing) economic rates
of return, in addition to positive externalities with regard to increased civic participation, better
health, lower fertility, decreased vulnerability of households to shocks and improved social
mobility.
*   Investments in primary education offer particularly high social rates of return, but are also critic il
for equitable and rapid economic growth, and within the education sector they create a strong
foundation on which to develop secondary and tertiary education.
*   Vietnam has rapidly expanded coverage of the education system but needs to improve the qualit)
of educational services in order to realize the hoped for gains in student learning and in the
productivity of its workforce. Improving quality will require investments in facilities, materials,
and teacher skills.
*   Investing in teachers is likely to have a significant payoff. A study of education in Vietnam has
analyzed the impact of various indicators of school quality on children's success in school and
found the strongest association to be with teacher quality and the second strongest with the qualiry
of learning inputs. While the Government and other Bank-financed projects focus on provision o'f
learning inputs, the teacher part of the equation has been largely neglected to date.
*   Some resources for investment in education could be generated through efficiency gains and others
through parental contributions. And the projected decline that the primary school-age population
will also reduce the pressure on the education budget and allow a switch to quality related
- 14 -



improvements. Most parents do cover the costs of learning material and some contribute to a
construction fund. However, this places a heavy financing burden on the poor that sometimes acts
as a barrier to enrollment. Consequently, spending for teachers salaries and training should be
fiinded from public sources.
*   The quality of a teacher depends on a number of factors, including his or her basic level of
education, professional training, and incentives to perform on the job. Low pay is clearly a
deterrent to increased contact time with students and to teaching in remote areas where the
opportunities to earn supplementary income are limited. Hence the emphasis in the project on
revision of the teacher terms of service, and an assessment of the feasibility of improving
remuneration within the fiscal constraints of the Government and the regulatory constraints of the
civil service.
The project will introduce several different modes of in-service teacher training, including residential
summer programs, school or district based programs, and distance learning programs. The project
financial accounts and the Personnel Information System will permit the tracking of trainee costs for each
mode of delivery and its effectiveness against a common outcome measure, i.e., teacher's progression on
the professional profile. Thus, at the end of the project economists will be well positioned to conduct a
cost-effectiveness analysis of the training mode options, the results of which will inform the choice of
training delivery modes to be offered during a subsequent nationwide expansion of the program.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The Government's commitment to funding education is strong and the prospects for financial
sustainability of the project are robust. Despite years of declining revenues (as a proportion of GDP) and
the Asian economic crisis, Government has not only protected but increased expenditures on education
and training. In 1999, the Education and Training budget represented 17% of the Government budget and
approximately 3.5% of GDP. The draft Government policy statement for 2010 envisages a gradual
increase in education spending to 20% of the government budget (World Bank, Public Expenditure
Review, 2000).
The Government-Bank-DFID appraisal team updated education fnancing projections done in 1996 for the
Vietnam Education and Financing Sector Study (World Bank, 1996). The 1996 study projected a
substantial "budget cushion" for education and training, emerging under the "plan" scenario in 1999 and
rising to 18% of the budget by 2004 (due in part to the projected decline in the total school age
population). The authors of the study recommended that this cushion could be used to make much needed
investments in equity and quality enhancement.
The updated projections indicate that some budget "cushion" still exists, but that it has been substantially
eroded. This is because enrollments have grown much faster than anticipated (particularly in secondary
and higher education) and unit costs of education have increased more quickly than anticipated in 1996,
mainly due to a substantial increase in civil service salaries in January 2000. However, the appraisal
team's analysis shows that the "cushion" needed to make quality improvements will begin to re-emerge in
the education and training (E&T) current budget in 2002 as the demographic pressure is reduced through
a modest fall in the 6- 10 year-old population. This conclusion is based on a conservative analysis that
assumes: (a) government revenues as a percent of GDP remain constant at 20%, (b) unit costs of
education (including teachers salaries) rise with inflation, (c) there is a gradual increase in education's
share of the national budget (from 17% in 1999 to 18% in 2000, 19% in 2004 and 20% in 2008); and
(d) there is robust growth in enrollment at other levels. Under these conditions, the cushion should rise
from 3% of the current budget in 2002 to 26% in 2010. (If economic growth is frozen at 6% for the
- 15 -



period instead of growing gradually to the projected 7% the estimated cushion would be slightly lower, at
22% of the current budget by 2010).
Education and Training Current Budget Projection
.... .. .... ..   -0p;;-- - - -- - - '-'"i"ii'-''t'' '"-'-''  "i'   aX- - - 7-    X|-l"    7l;
50
40   -_                                                              _    _    _    _
30                  iX-- Projected budget
2  -u:  Projected expenditures
By far the largest cost of the teacher reform program will come with the introduction of new terms of
service and remuneration scales in the post-project period. The timing of the proposed reforms in 2004-5
is fortuitous because it comes as MoET should begin to see a substantial budget cushion re-emerge.
Of course, there are many factors that will affect the size of the projected "cushion". It could grow in the
coming years if: (i) the private sector is allowed to play a greater role in education provision, especially at
higher levels, thereby relieving pressure on the Government budget; (ii) population estimates are lowered
as a result of the new census (initial estimates are that in fact the population estimates used in this analysis
will be lowered); and/or (iii) efficiency gains are realized by increasing the student:teacher ratio and/or
reducing the repetition rate. The student:teacher ratio, currently 28:1 on average nationally, could be
modestly increased without risking the quality of instruction (intemational research shows no significant
decline in quality with an increase of the student:teacher ratio from 30 to 35). Rates could be most easil)
increased in urban areas and through natural attrition as teachers retire or leave public sector teaching for
the private sector or other occupations. The school survey conducted in preparation for this project show s
the student:teacher ratio to be as low as 18:1 in the Northwest area of the country and 26:1 in the
Northeast area. There is also scope for improving the ratios in rural areas, but norms are hard to set in
sparsely populated rural areas where the student:teacher ratio will also depend on the abilities of teachers
to organize multigrade classes or alternate-year entry if the number of students is not high enough to
efficiently organize a standard delivery pattern of one teacher per grade. There could also be downward
pressures on the projected cushion: the actual salary bill is likely to rise as the teaching force ages (the
current teaching force is relatively young); as new, better qualified candidates enter the teaching force at
higher starting wages than their predecessors; and as teachers are required to work longer hours as more
schools shift to the new curriculum.
Specific proposals for revisions in the terms of service and remuneration will be developed under
Component 4 of the project. This analysis shows that some real increase in teachers' salaries is feasible.
The economic analysis (see Annex 4) suggests that an increase in teacher salaries is necessary if the
project is to attain and sustain its goals of improving teacher quality and increasing classroom learning
time for students. The size of the increase, and its impact on the recurrent budget, will be modeled as
specific proposals for revisions in teachers pay are developed under the Terms of Service component.
Fiscal Impact:
(see above)
- 16 -



3. Technical:
There are three key technical challenges in this project. The first is to define a teacher professional profile
that will serve the real and diverse development needs and priorities of Vietnam's education system. The
draft profile draws on the considerable body of worldwide literature on teacher professional standards,
and on the methods or processes others have used for defining standards. Extensive consultations and
action research on the draft profile and trials with Vietnamese educators are underway. Component 1 of
the project provides resources for further refinement of the profile.
The second major challenge is for the project to identify and implement appropriate modes of training
delivery. The teaching force is relatively young (with an average age of 34.5 years). A program to
upgrade existing teachers skills will therefore have to rely heavily on in-service and distance education
rather than extended residential training or attrition and replacement. Research conducted during project
preparation surveyed existing distance technologies and infrastructure and outlined options for TTIs,
PETs and district levels to take better advantage of technology in training delivery.
The third technical challenge will be to develop a Quality Assurance framework that is consistent with the
overall skills and practices that the project wishes to promote through the teacher professional profile.
Accreditation, for example, should account of the ability of the training program to advance a teacher on
his or her professional profile as well as the input measures that ministries of education typically use to
judge program quality (e.g. qualifications of staff, facilities, and equipment). This will require
state-of-the-art technical advice and a cultural shift on the part of the education community, especially
teachers, education managers and inspectors.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Current levels of literacy and human development are high, a reflection of a socio-political system which
places a high value on education. The transition from a centrally planned and command economy,
however, poses a particular challenge to an education system that is still managed (top down) by
provinces and where performance is judged according to confonnity with centrally defined regulations,
inputs and targets and a static approach to leaming.
Vietnam is developing a new vision to deliver dynamic, adaptive, modem leaming in tune with the needs
of a liberalizing economy. The new vision brings a need for schools to develop a new culture that is less
dependent on centrally defined norms and methods and places greater emphasis on student leaming and
achievement. The new curriculum is one of the key vehicles for delivering the new vision but its
introduction depends on a successful response to other key challenges.
There is a need for a new style of management and leadership that is more pro-active and places greater
emphasis on professional guidance, facilitation, introduces a shift in the incentive system to one more
directly based on performance and is more responsive to the needs of pupils and parents. This will place
new demands on the professional and interpersonal skills of managers in facilitating change, responding to
new opportunities and dealing with the problems of transition. The management of stakeholder interests
will include responding to particular needs as articulated by parents (e.g., for a pattern of schooling that
fits within the agricultural cycle), maximizing opportunities for teachers who reach the new standards and
helping those who do not benefit from training to find other careers.
- 17-



There is a need to review capacity to manage and integrate interventions in pursuit of the new vision for
primary education. However, to address the complex and dynamic change that the project introduces,
management systems will need to evolve in step. There are particular demands on personnel management
(to support a performance based incentive system), evaluation and monitoring systems (to provide
information on progress and to identify areas requiring management intervention), planning (to match
resource allocation with the new priorities) and training (in new skills and systems). The management of
change, particularly in the early stages, is likely to place heavy demands on the facilitation skills of MoET
and the Provincial Departments of Education and Training (DoETs). This project provides resources to
examine these challenges in greater depth and to build capacity through facilitation of change and related
institutional support.
o. Project management:
MoET has experience in managing two current World Bank-financed projects and several other projects
supported by multilateral and bilateral agencies. One IDA project has five years of unqualified opinions
from an intemational accounting firm on its entity (MoET), SOE/Project and Special Account financial
statements. The other project has recently become effective and no audit reports have been due to date.
During the preparation of this project the MoET team has gained additional experience in managing
Bank-financed programs, including procurement, project planning, and financial management. The tearr
has also ensured that extemal technical assistance strengthened capacity in appropriate institutions inside
and outside MoET, and that studies were carried out in such a way that they built ownership of the
conclusions by drawing team members from institutions that are likely to have an impact on implementing
the project.
This project will be managed centrally by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in MoET. The PCU will
not be an isolated independent entity but will be integrated with -- and linked to -- other departments and
units inside and outside MoET. Some of the professional teams of the PCU will be placed in technical
institutions that can best carry out the specific technical tasks. The PCU's generic functions of
accounting, procurement, training and reporting will draw upon the administrative departments of the
MoET that already carry out such functions provided that the personnel appointed are qualified. This
ensures capacity building at various technical institutions and provides integration with the nornal
operations of MoET. The PCU will receive support and guidance from an inter-ministerial project
steering committee. Detailed terms of reference have been developed for the committee. The PCU will be
responsible for co-ordination of the project components to achieve the project goals, and the facilitation
and support for change in provinces, districts and schools. MoET intends to meet these functions on a
national scale during its program expansion by building capacity in provincial DOETs and decentralizing
as many as project management functions as possible.
5. Social:
Aggregate levels of enrollment in education in Vietnam are as high as in other much wealthier countries.
This is because of the high value placed by the Vietnamese on education, the importance paid by the
govemment to human resource development, and its commnitment to providing universal access to basic
education. The Government is continuing to invest heavily in the development of the education system
because it rightly views an educated population as a pre-requisite for equitable, sustainable, and rapid
growth. Education helps people to lead healthier and more productive lives. Basic education in particular
provides people with the literacy, numeracy and other skills that they need to substantially participate in
the economy, society, and further education. Investing in the education of girls has especially powerful
benefits in terms of improving family health and nutrition, civic participation and family welfare.
- 18 -



The policies that delivered high levels of aggregate performance served most of the people in most of the
country well. However, the reforms brought in under doi moi, and with them the introduction of user
charges (or "socialization") of education have brought new challenges.
Through the doi moi reforms, Vietnam has achieved good growth, development, and poverty reduction in
the past five years. And in rural areas the benefits of growth have been spread remarkably equitably.
Most people have benefited and poverty rates are falling. (Government of Vietnam: Vietnam: Attacking
Poverty, Vietnam Development Report 2000). However, inequalities are developing between regions and
the rural-urban gap is widening. The challenge now for Vietnam is how to maintain a pattern of growth
that is equitable, and ensure that benefits of growth, especially in the improved delivery and performance
of basic social services, are spread throughout the country. To fail will risk growing and chronic
impoverishment and marginalization of poorer and disadvantaged areas of the country. The Vietnam
Development Report 2000 identifies three key and related challenges in education -- access, quality and
relevance and financing.
Access: Despite high overall enrollments and relatively small differences between males and females,
many disadvantaged areas and groups do not have equality of access to basic education. Of the children
who are currently not in school, 50 percent are from ethnic minorities. In Lai Chau, a poor mountainous
province, only 49 percent of adult women are literate. The differences between richer and poorer groups
with respect to primary education are not as large as in other countries with similar levels of income, but
they become more pronounced higher up the system. A few ethnic minority children are accepted into
highly subsidized ethnic minority boarding schools at a high cost per capita. But most are not, and receive
a much lower quality of education.
Quality and relevance: Access cannot be considered separately from quality. Although overall
enrollments are high, there are large differences in the amount and quality of education that children
receive. Several factors are important. In poor and remote areas the school day tends to be shorter,
teachers harder to find and motivate, and pupils less likely to attend. Pupil achievement is lower and
dropout and repetition rates are higher. In ethnic minority areas language is a further barrier, with very
few teachers being able to speak the native language of their pupils. This further reduces teacher and
pupil performance. More broadly, the current curriculum does not equip children with the skills necessary
to succeed in the growing market based economy of Vietnam. A new curriculum has been developed, but
few teachers are yet capable of meeting the new, higher standards it sets out for subject matter knowledge
and teaching methods.
Financing: The "socialization" of education has placed an increasing burden on poorer families. The net
effect is a highly regressive financing system. An over-reliance on household financing of basic education
places a disproportionate burden on poor families with children at primary school. Fee exemptions for
poor families have only limited impact, as they do not offset the other education costs that poor families
have to pay and are not well-targeted. Combined with the other quality-enhancing inputs that richer
parents can afford, the net effect is poorer areas having to put up with poor schools, and having little
opportunity to improve them. The challenge for the Government is to reform the financing system so as to
give all children equal access to an adequate quality of basic education. The regressive financing system
directly affects poor people because of the disproportionate burden they bear, as well as reducing the
quality of the education their children get. Reform of the financing system would have a dual impact on
poverty. An inumediate impact would be made by increasing the disposable incomes for poor people by
reducing hard-to-afford private expenditures. A longer term impact would be achieved by improving the
ability of their children to compete in Vietnam's emerging market economy.
- 19 -



This project will not directly tackle the challenges in improving enrollment by poor and disadvantaged
groups to basic education. Other sector-wide changes will be needed to overcome these difficulties, and
for this reason the Government, World Bank, DFID and others are planning a major investment in
primary education for disadvantaged children in FY 2003. However, by improving the management and
performance of teachers, the project does play a necessary part in improving the management of scarce
education resources, without which other broader sector improvements will not be effective. The project
will help ensure that students will have access to qualified and motivated teachers. It will also help ensure
that the new curriculum is delivered in full to students. Finally, the teacher standards that the project
promotes will help ensure that teachers respond sensitively to individual needs of students or groups of
students that have traditionally faced difficulties in accessing and benefiting from schooling.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C (Not Required)
The project will contribute to improved environmental awareness by training teachers to deliver the
revised primary school curriculum. In this curriculum, seventeen weeks of learning (out of a total of 165
weeks in primary schooling) are devoted to the theme of nature, society and health; of this 10 sessions deal
directly or indirectly with environmental education. Proposed changes in teaching methods emphasize
problem solving and active student learning with the intention that this will develop in students a
propensity to engage in local issues and the capacity to develop creative solutions to problems. Hence this
project, which provides teachers with the professional skills and technical knowledge to deliver the
curriculum, can be expected to increase students' concems for the environment and its sustainability.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Beneficiar or affected group   Form of participation-      What they influence
MoET/DoET                         Consultation/     Project design and implementation.
Collaboration
Teachers, school managers and       Con/Col         Development of teacher profile and
inspectors                                          training programs.
TTIs, PETs and others               Con/Col          Development and delivery of training
programs.
NIES                                Con/Col         Design of curriculum on which
teacher training will be based in
part. Consultation on teacher
professional profile.
- 20 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Beneficiary or affected group   Form of participation       What they influence
Teachers' Union                        Con            Revision of tenns of service, design
of professional profile.
GCOP                                   Con            Revision of terrns of service, means
of evaluating teachers progress on
profile.
National Assembly                      Con            Revision of terms of service, overall
policy.
The Communist Party                    Con            Overall policy content.
Students                               Con            Identifying key issues, project design.
Parents                                Con            Identifying key issues, project design.
Local government representatives     Con/Col          Identifying key issues, project design
and implementation.
Other international agencies           Con            Identifying key issues, project
design.
8. Safeguard Policies:
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      O Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Two factors are critical for sustainability. The frst is the ability of the Govermnent to provide budgetary
support for improved teacher salaries. Improving salaries is key to achieving other goals of increasing the
utilization of teachers and providing incentives for professional development. The Government introduced
a pay raise of 25% in January 2000. However, it is evident that further increases -- linked to changes in
the expectations for teacher performnance -- will be required. These will need to be in line, or at least not in
conflict with, broader civil service regulations.
- 21 -



Wage increases will put pressure on the non-wage bill, and this is an issue of particular concern for poor
areas where spending on books and materials is already low and schools depend on contract teachers who
are funded from the non-salary budget. A study of primary education financing and budget systems and *ie
FPublic Expenditure Review's (PER) chapter on education have highlighted the problem. The solution lies
in the more equitable distribution of resources between districts and provinces. The problem will be
iddressed through planned follow-on work on the PER and the planned Primary Education for
Disadvantaged Children Project rather than through this project.
The second sustainability issue is one of skills and capacity, particularly in the areas of management and
quality assurance. Teacher profiles, accreditation standards, and teacher evaluation processes will need
continuous revision as the needs of teachers and institutions change. During the project, the MoET will
seek to develop skills and capacities to develop and use professional profiles, conduct teacher appraisals,
and carry out training program assessments and accreditation.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The professional profile may not be           M         Standards will be developed through a wiJely
fonrnally approved by Government.                       consultative process, tested through action
research and trialed extensively before being
submitted for approval.
Staff at the national, provincial, and        M         Staff who are commissioned to develop training
district levels may not have the capacity to            materials will be chosen based on ability aind
implement the project's activities.                     supported with training and guidance frorn the
Technical Coordination Groups for Professional
Standards and Training. The project will
provide significant training opportunities for all
staff and technical assistance to complement
existing skills.
Trainers may not apply new skills and         M         The project provides for training of trainers and
instructional techniques appropriate to                 reviews instruction using quality assurance
zlassroom situations that new teachers                  processes.
will face in their schools.
There may not be wide acceptance of the       S         Substantial training and professional
need to change leadership and                           development opportunities are provided for
management styles. Building an effective                school, local-level and central educationaL
quality assurance system implies a shift in             managers. The project also supports twining
.he perceived roles of leadership and                   arrangements with experienced institutions who
management in supervision and support                   have made similar changes. These institutions
systems - moving towards a leadership                   will provide professional guiidance, training and
sand management style that relies less on               related technical assistance.
directives to achieve goals and more on
provision of professional guidance,
support and evaluation.
- 22 -



Any conflicting interests with regard to      S         Careful design of the consultative process and
revisions in the terms of service between               support for consensus building activities. The
key stakeholders are not resolved.                      proposed work on Terms of Service is designed
Resolution will require cooperation from                to involve key stakeholders in development of
several Ministries and agreement among a                proposals and contains generous provisions in
wide range of stakeholders.                             terms of time and resources for consensus
building activities.
Wider civil service regulations are in        M         The MoET has widely shared the project
conflict with proposed revisions in the                 concept document with concerned ministries and
terms of service.                                       specifically sought comments on the terms of
service component. This process will continue
during the project.
From Components to Outputs
The Profile Coordination Team may not         M         The team will be supported with technical
effectively blend a considerable amount of              assistance, action research, training, and links to
international experience and the results of             overseas institutions.
local consultations to develop a
professional profile appropriate to
conditions in Vietnam.
TTI and PETs management may not adapt         M         The project will support capacity building for
to a new role as pro-active training                    change management for training providers.
providers.
Managers may not be willing and able to       M         The project provides resources for institutional
adapt management systems and practice                   support and facilitation of change.
to implement reforms
Increases in teacher salaries, sufficient to  M         Current budget projections show that the
motivate teachers to engage in continued                ministry will have a budget "cushion" available
professional development, may not be                    to allocate to quality improvements, one of
affordable.                                             which may be teacher incentives. Work under
Component 4 "Revision of Teacher Terms of
Service" will be guided by the overall budget
constraints and informed by wide stakeholder
participation. Overall financing constraints will
be addressed through the Public Expenditure
Review and related follow-on work.
Sufficient capacity in financial              S         A Financial Management Action Plan has been
management is not developed.                            agreed with Government. An independent,
external oversight body - the inter-ministerial
project steering committee - will be established
with representatives from the public sector. The
project primarily procures goods and services
centrally, under relatively close scrutiny of Bank
personnel. Finally, the project will receive
additional comfort on risky costs, such as local
- 23 -



training costs, through special work conducted
by the external auditor.
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The project is complicated and ambitious. Implementing it will require a great deal of cooperation among
many stakeholders, and willingness to embrace new styles of leadership and management, particularly with
regard to teacher training and quality assurance. However, the Government and donor appraisal teams feel
that the time is ripe for the project. The Government is demonstrating a willingness to tackle these difficult
issues and to explore new ideas as it prepares to introduce the new primary school curriculum.
Furthermore, the experience with patterns of educational development in the region suggests that it woulcl
be prudent to address emerging problems (such as low teacher salaries, private tutoring, and disparities in
the delivery pattern) before they become larger, more deeply ingrained problems.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are several issues where debate will occur and where there is a potential for disagreement or
misunderstanding. Firstly, there is a widespread public misperception that there is a significant teacher
shortage throughout the primary education system. MoET has done careful analysis that shows that the
issue is one of deployment and under-utilization rather than shortage per se. An information and
sensibilization program from MoET will dispel the misperceptions and show that subject-specific
shortages, and shortages in difficult or remote areas, are being addressed.
Second, changes in teachers' employment regulations, salaries, or teachers' standards that may lead to ex:.ts
from the teaching service, are all changes that could be rejected by teachers. Teachers may feel that
increases in the pupil/teacher ratio will lead to a reduction in quality and may oppose such reform.
Government will need to explain the package of parallel actions that are designed to improve quality and
increase student performance, and for this reason a budget for a communications strategy has been included
in the project. The project will also regularly monitor student learning performance and achievement for
changes and report such changes.
Third, proposals to improve benefits for primary teachers will require both agreement from several
Government departments and the availability of adequate budgetary resources. The project's high level
oversight body, the inter-ministerial project steering committee, is made up of the key Government
departments involved in mobilizing and deploying resources, and the Government's agency responsible for
civil service salaries. The inter-ministerial project steering committee provides the mechanism through
which such collegial decisions can be reached.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The DFID Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
The inter-ministerial project steering committee has been established with responsibility for overseeing the
implementation of the Project and ensuring its coordination with the Borrower's economic and social
development policy.
- 24 -



Staff for the PCU have been selected under terns of reference acceptable to the Association and qualified
specialists, acceptable to the Association, have been appointed to lead implementation activities in each of
the following areas: (i) development of teachers' professional standards, (ii) design of teacher training
programs, (iii) quality assurance, (iv) formulation of teachers' terms of service, (v) administration and
training, (vi) accounts and finance, and (vii) procurement.
The PCU has engaged the services of an international procurement advisor under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
The PCU has established an adequate project financial management system to ensure proper execution
and monitoring of project implementation in accordance with an action plan acceptable to the Association.
The Borrower has completed the preparation of an initial primary teacher profile which includes
dimensions and levels of teacher knowledge, skills, competencies and attitudes.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Counterpart funding. Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed that it has made adequate
provision for counterpart funding and that the first year of these funds are readily available for project
start-up and are included in the forthcoming budget.
Selection of provinces. Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed its selection of the ten pilot
provinces in accordance with criteria previously agreed between the Government's and the Association's
preparation teams.
Management aspects of the project agency. Prior to negotiations, the Government provided documentary
evidence that the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established and that the PCU manager had
been appointed with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Monitoring, review and reporting. At negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will:
*  provide regular quarterly progress reports documenting implementation progress on all aspects of
the project and list problems and issues requiring resolution as soon as these become apparent, due
thirty days after the end of each FY quarter after project effectiveness;
* monitor the agreed key performance and impact indicators that relate to project objectives and
document these in the quarterly reports;
* furnish to the Association each year an annual work program for implementation during the next
twelve month period by November 30 each year;
* hold jointly with the Association and DFID, reviews of implementation and the annual work plan
each year by January 31;
* prepare and submit a Project Completion Report to the Association within six months of the
closing date of the project.
Program expansion. The Government shall examine options for expanding the Primary Teacher
Development Project to other provinces, and develop a plan for program expansion for discussion with IDA
and DFID by no later than March 31, 2005.
- 25 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
[] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
C] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
12 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
An action plan to strengthen financial management was prepared along with an action plan to strengthen
procurement. The capacity issues mentioned in these two assessments are addressed by effectiveness
conditions linked to the staffing of the PCU.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I ]2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Christopher P. Shaw               Maureen Law                      ,Ann hwZ4Wf.    --
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDIrector           Country Manager/Director
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The main goal of the      Improvements in student    Results of the Grade 5 student Improving the quality of
Govemment (as expressed in  achievement in Mathematics  assessments in Mathematics  education leads to increased
its 2010 Strategy), the World  and Vietnamese, measured    and Vietnamese, including an productivity, and therefore
Bank (as expressed in the  every 4-5 years beginning in  analysis of the relationship   increased income, and
CAS) and DFID (as expressed 2001.                    between classification of the   ultimately to a reduction in
in its CSP) is to provide a                          teacher, as measured by the   poverty. Improving the
high quality basic education                         profile, and student       quality of education also leads
for all children.                                    achievement. (For purposes  to improvements in health,
of monitoring this project,   fertility, and income
differentiate by project and    distribution, which in turn
non-project provinces.)   contribute to poverty
reduction.
Improvements in student   Ministry of Education
enrollment, completion,   statistics (For purposes of
repetition, and dropout rates,  monitoring this project,
reported annually.        differentiate by project and
non-project provinces.)
- 27 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Proiect Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The foundations are in place  The capacities to assess  1. PCU Annual Project   Govemment and donoir
for a nationwide program to  teachers, provide high quality Reports and reports of the  commitment to the program is
improve the quality of the    training, and efficiently  Technical Coordination  sustained.
primary teaching service, thus manage the teaching force are Teams
enabling the Government to   developed within the     2. Project mid-term and final Teachers and school
build a high quality, efficient, Ministry, provinces, TTIs    reviews           managers respond to training
professional teaching service, and/or schools.        3. Scorecards describing the  opportunities and apply
capable of teaching the new                          status of teacher development leaming.
cuniculum and              Govemment demonstrates a   in each province (See Annex
implementing emerging      readiness to implement an    11)                     The MoET, Provincial
requirements in primary    expanded and improved      4. Govemment plan for     Departments of Education,
education.                 program of teacher training.  program expansion (due 6    District Administrations,
months before project closing) Teacher Training Institutions
(TTIs), EMTCs, and schools
develop the capacity tc
manage and to sustain the
innovations supported by the
project.
There are no large scalLe
changes in the labor mTiarket,
civil service, or social status
of teachers that wouli
negatively affect the supply or
demand for teachers.
Organizational and leadership
skills of the Project
Coordination Unit are strong
enough to effectively integrate
work on standards, training,
quality assurance and terms of
service, and to take
foundations laid in project to
scale as part of a national
reformi.
28 -



Key Performance       [                           l
Hierarchy of Objectives I         Indicators         [Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Standards of teacher    A teacher professional profile Progress reports from the  The professional profile is
knowledge, competencies,    is drafted, tested, revised and  Profile Coordination Team.   formally approved by
skills and practice are defined, agreed with key stakeholders                      Govemment.
widely accepted, and applied. by the end of the project.  The minutes of focus group
discussions between
Draft professional profile  Govemment and
developed and trialed with   representative groups of
2,160 teachers in 90 schools  teachers on the concept and
in 10 provinces and modified  application of the profile.
accordingly by the end of
Yr. 1.                     Baseline measure of teaching
force's (sample) professional
Modules to be developed    status.
under component 2 are
identified, based on the results
of an exercise to map the TTI
curriculum against the teacher
profile, the new curriculum
and training needs of
teachers.
Consensus is reached among
key stakeholders on the
content and use of the profile
by the end of the project.
Approximately 25,000
teachers in 10 provinces are
assessed on the profile by the
end of the project. Teachers'
development needs are
identified through the profile
mapping exercise by Yr.3.
2. Teacher training programs  New teacher training modules Progress reports of the  Staff at the national,
are improved through staff   and associated materials are   Training Coordination Team. provincial, and district levels
and materials development.   developed and approved by                             have the capacity to
MoET. At least 24 modules                              implement the programs.
are developed over 3 years.
Trials of the modules involve                          Trainers apply new skills and
7,200 teachers in 93 districts.                        instructional techniques
appropriate to classroom
At least 14 modules are given                          situations that new teachers
final approval by MoET by                              will face in their schools.
the end of the project.
400 teacher trainers in TTIs,
districts and local levels
acquire the capacity to deliver
- 29 -



new modules.
Approximately 25,000
teachers receive an average of
10 modules each by the end of
the project.
3. Quality assurance processes Accreditation framework:   Progress reports of the Quality There is wide acceptarice of
designed and in use.         (i) drafted, (ii) tested,    Assurance Coordination        the need to change leadership
(iii) revised and agreed with   Team.                     and management styles.
major stakeholders, by the end                            (Building an effective quality
of the project.              PMIS records.                assurance system implies a
shift in the perceived roles of
Teacher classification       Newsletters or other forms of  leadership and manage ment
procedures (i) drafted,      pnnted communication         in supervision and support
(ii) tested, (iii) revised and    distributed to teachers,  systems - moving to'.ards a
agreed with major            education managers, and      leadership and manag,ment
stakeholders by the end of the  others; information provided   style that relies less c It
project.                     by the mass media.           directives to achieve c,oals and
more on provision of
1,000 principals and local                                professional guidanc-
education managers are                                    support, monitoring and
trained on interpretation and                             evaluation.)
application of the profile by
the end of Year 2.
1,000 schools, 93 districts and
10 provinces operate teacher
assessment systems and
school improvement reviews
by the end of the project.
A Personnel Management
Information System (PMIS) is
in operation by the end of the
end of Year 2.
A communications strategy
raises awareness of planned
reforms, keeps key
stakeholders informed of
project developments and
provides opportunities for
feedback.
4. Proposals for revised terms Options for revision of the  Progress reports of the Terms  Any conflicting interests
of service and remuneration   terms of service are:       of Service Coordination       between key stakeholders are
are widely agreed.           (i) identified; (ii) agreed with  Team.                    resolved. This will irquire
key stakeholders and                                       cooperation from seN eral
(iii) revised and regulations                              Ministfies and agreement
are drafted.                                               among a wide range ef
stakeholders.
Wider civil service rz,ulations
- 30 -



are not in conflict with
proposed revisions in the
termns of service.
5. MoET, provinces, districts The project is rated     Reports of the
and schools have strengthened satisfactory by IDA/DFID and inter-ministerial project
capacity for coordination,  Government throughout its   steering committee and PCU
implementation, monitoring,  implementation.           (these should include a
and evaluation.                                        discussion of management
Qualitative improvements on  issues and implementation
a baseline established by  constraints).
ongoing action research.
Project audit reports and
quarterly Project Management
Reports
Strategic Reviews of Project
Performance and other action
research reports.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                              Outputs)
Development of Teacher     $1.01 million               Semi-annual project         The Profile Coordination
Professional Standards:                                supervision reports, mid-term  Team effectively blends a
* Development and                                    review, and project progress   considerable amount of
ap plication of the profile                         reports.                    international experience and
to training courses                                                           the results of local
* Application of the profile                                                     consultations to develop a
to tea cher assessment                                                          professional profile
* Action research to refine                                                      appropriate to conditions in
the profile                                                                     Vietnam.
Training Programs for      $26.15 million              Annual reports from project   TTI and PETs management
Teachers and Education                                 TTls (regular existing      can adapt to a new role as
Managers:                                              Government reports).        pro-active training providers.
* Needs assessment and
s pecification of the
content of training
packages
* Establish materials
d evelopment teams and
prepare trial packages
- 31 -



* Reinforce capacity of
t eacher training
institutions, provinces
and districts
* Appraisal of training
pac kages and publishing
* Delivery and use of
tbr aining modules
Quality assurance:         $3.67 million               Annual provincial education   Management is willing and
* Personnel management                               reports (regular start- and  able to adapt systems and
in formation system                                 end-of-academic year reports). practice to implement
* Teacher classification                                                         reforms.
*Accred itation
*Comm unications and
tr aining for school
improvement
Revision in the Terms of   SO.50 million               Seminar and workshop        Reforms are affordablo
Service for Teachers                                   reports from this component.
Capacity in Coordination,    $4.42 million             Quarterly progress reports,    Sufficient capacity for
Implementation, Monitoring                             PMRs and annual             financial management is
& Evaluation is Strengthened:                          independent Audit reports.    developed.
* Project oversight
*PC U
oProfess ional teams
*Provin cial & district
te ams
* Monitoring & evaluation
*Pr eparation &
s pecification of expansion
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.01 million
Development of Teacher Professional Standards
Objective: The objective of this component is to establish a new vision for professional teachers,
articulated in a "Teacher Professional Profile". The profile will be used to inform the design of training
programs, assess teacher skills and development needs, and suggest standards for teacher classification and
titling. The profile will also allow teachers to benchmark and track their professional growth over time;
and facilitate the selection and training of educational leaders.
The profile will contain standards for teachers at each stage of their development, from a beginning
teacher, to experienced and advanced teachers. Teachers will be evaluated along at least three "strands" of
professional competence including: Strand I "Personality, ideology and politics"; Strand 2 "Knowledge";
and Strand 3 "Pedagogical skills." Indicators or "pointers" within each strand will be developed to
facilitate measurement or verification of a teacher's position on the profile.
Activities: Profile coordination team ($0.50 million). This team will be responsible for the timely and
effective implementation of Component I activities. Specifically, it will:
3 provide a detailed orientation to Component I activities for all participants,
* coordinate implementation of activities,
*   develop guidelines for the use of the teacher profile,
D   collate feedback on the strengths and weaknesses of the profile approach and problems encountered
based on initial trials and action research,
*   facilitate consultation on the profile content and application and share results with key stakeholders
(teachers, professional associations, teacher educators, etc.),
v revise the profile based on project activities,
disseminate findings and conduct follow-up work on the national policy and procedural
implications stemming from teacher profile development and application.
The project will fund personnel, fumiture, equipment, consumables, links to overseas institutions, and
workshops to assist the profile coordination team to carry out its work.
Application of the profile to training courses ($0.07 million). Staff in 10 selected TTIs and the respective
PETs will map existing pre-service and in-service courses for primary teachers against the teacher
professional profile to identify areas of strength and weakness in their current programs. The mapping
should show important content or skill areas omitted from current programs, or conversely, other areas of
overlap or redundancy. Using the profile "pointers" to indicate specific skills required of teachers, the
mapping could also identify areas where a change in emphasis is warranted (e.g., insufficient emphasis on
relating theory and practice). It will provide a summary of the current in-service and pre-service training
provision in relation to each profile strand. The results of the mapping will be used to identify training
modules to be developed in Component 2. The project will fund technical assistance to teacher trainers to
assist in the mapping; workshops and participation of the Profile Coordination Team in mapping work; and
participation of the profile team in the initial training module workshops under Component 2.
- 33 -



A4pplication of the profile to teacher assessment ($0.22 million). This sub-component will assist teacher
trainers and managers to apply the teacher profile as part of their normal procedures for assessing trainees
and teachers, and for identifying and prioritizing training needs. Teacher trainers will apply the profile
guidelines to chart the achievement of students in pre-service programs, and work with principals and
teachers in cooperating schools to identify ways of using the profile to assess teaching practice and identif?
teachers' professional development needs. Applying the teacher profile to student assessment (of
pre-service trainees) will help to identify revisions needed in existing pre-service courses. In a parallel
larger exercise, schools, districts and provinces will train teachers and managers in the use of the profile as
a means of assessing the professional development needs of teachers. The distribution of results for
existing teachers in participating schools will provide a benchmark of the skills profile of the current
teaching workforce, and lead to a description of teachers' most urgent professional development needs,
thus providing further feedback to guide the development of specific in-service modules in Component 2.
*The project will fund development of a guide on application of the profile (including the aims of the profile.
roles and responsibilities of teachers, principals, and others involved in its application; and guidance on the
appropriate application of the profile); and application of the profile (including materials, training and
travel associated with application of the profile; and data collection and analysis).
,4ction research to refine the profile ($0.22 million). A draft teacher profile was developed and then
refined with funding from the PHRD and DFID project preparation grants. The Profile Coordination
Team will undertake a systematic review of the draft profile using evidence accumulated from applying the
profiles in different schools and TTIs. It will further refine the profile using research data collected during
ihe project, including the opinions from key stakeholders (teachers, teacher educators, teacher managers,
parents, etc.) before it is formally recommended to the Government for use in assessing teachers' skills and
professional development needs. For example, if a strand level is found not to describe adequately the
performance of a teacher who, on other evidence, should be at that level, then further analysis will be
carried out.
Trhe Profile Coordination Team will have resources to commission action research studies on particularly
difficult aspects of the profile and, to design studies to link teacher assessment as measured by the profile
1o student achievement and other student outcomes, the ultimate criteria for quality teaching. When the
Profile Coordination Team is satisfied that the profile can be used to effectively assess teachers' skills and
professional development needs, it will revise the draft operational guidelines for use of the profile. The
guidelines will explain the benefits of the profile, discuss how it can be used by teachers, managers and
other stakeholders, and provide guidance on how to apply the profile in practice. The project will fund
r esearch grants for primary teacher trainers, TA for action research, seminars to review experience with
ihe profile, and printing of the finalized operational guide.
Outcomes: By the end of the project the following products will have been produced under this
component:
*   A guide on the use of the profile for curriculum mapping will have been produced and primary
teacher trainers from 10 provinces/cities, trained in the use of the profile, will have located their
in-service and pre-service courses within the profile strands.
*   A report will have been produced on the mapping of current pre-service and in-service courses
against the profile for all TTIs with implications for required revisions of, or additions to, the
teacher training curriculum and associated modules.
*   A guide on the use of the profile for assessment of teachers' skills and professional development
and training needs will have been developed and principals, deputy principals, and staff of
approximately 1,000 schools, having been trained on its application, will have completed an
- 34 -



assessment of teachers in their schools.
* Based on a trial of the use of the profile with approximately 2,160 teachers in Year 1, a report will
have been prepared and possible changes in the profile and in the guidelines recommended.
* By the end of Year 3, the profile (with any necessary changes) will have been used: (i) to assess the
skills of approximately 25,000 teachers in 10 provinces, and (ii) to identify priority needs for
further training related to the modules developed under Component 2.
* Based on feedback from all uses of the draft profile in the trials, a revised version of the profile will
have been produced.
* A revised guide will have been produced to explain the valid use of the profile, its strengths and its
limitations, the responsibilities of users, as well as forms of support which can be expected from
others.
* The revised profile and guide on its use will have been referred to the National Advisory
Committee for recommendation to the Minister.
* Based on teachers from participating provinces, a report will have been produced with benchmark
data on teacher standards, broken down by selected teacher background variables such as training
program, years of experience, location of school, etc.
Project Component 2 - US$26.15 million
Training Programs for Teachers and Education Managers
Objectives: The objectives of this component are to: (i) improve teacher in-service and pre-service
training programs through the development of strategic training modules that will assist teachers to
progress to new professional standards (and therefore implement the new curriculum), and (ii) create
opportunities for teachers to participate in such training through residential programs, part-time study,
on-the-job training, and distance education programs.
Activities: Training coordination team ($0.58 million). A Training Coordination Team will:
v develop specifications for the content of training modules based on a needs analysis from previous
studies and feedback from the early application of the profiles;
a provide staff development in new teaching methods for primary teacher trainers;
* produce a guide for the format of modules and different modes of delivery; provide training
sessions for the teams developing the modules;
o coordinate activities related to trial, feedback and revision of modules;
* arrange for major print runs of training materials and their distribution to training sites;
* provide advice and solve problems as they emerge;
* engage in a quality assurance process for module development;
*   engage in an evaluation of all Component 2 activities; prepare reports for monitoring and
evaluation purposes and for formative evaluation of materials;
* communicate information on completed modules and their accessibility to all stakeholders;
* maintain records on the production, distribution and completion of materials produced;
*   liaise with other institutions and groups with a stake in this Component of the project (e.g., NIES,
TTIs not participating in the project, secondary education teacher trainers, the Profile Coordinating
Team);
* encourage and facilitate action research projects based on the work within Component 2; and
* draw national policy implications stemming from the training provided through the modules.
The project will finance personnel, overseas attachments, equipment, consumables and contractual support
with local institutions, furniture, and library materials.
- 35 -



Needs assessment and specification of the content of training packages ($0.22 million). A team of
experts will draw on information gathered under the PHRD grant, reports produced under Component 1 of
the project, and supplementary discussions as required to specify the training needs of teachers, teacher
trainers, and education managers. It will apply this information to the development of training syllabi,
specification of the content of initial modules, and evaluation of their quality before submitting them for
approval. The content of later modules will be refined by using data collected on the application of the
profile in Component I and the accompanying training needs analysis. Included in the modules (and the
early modules in particular) will be training opportunities for principals and other managers to assist therm
to provide leadership consistent with project objectives. Project funds will be provided for TA, completimn
of the needs assessment, and specification of the content of training modules (including workshop to define
training modules and printing of module specifications to share with national, provincial, TTI, and distric-t
education staff).
Establish materials development teams and prepare trial packages ($4.68 million). Teams will be
organized to develop, trial and refine approximately 24 training modules - 6 in the first year, 8 in the
second year, and 10 in the third year. Typically, each team will comprise up to 6 persons, some on a
part-time basis. Contractual arrangements will be made with several institutions (a university, the NIES,
TTIs, etc.) able to provide individual writers and basic services such as working space, access to library
and the internet, use of a range of educational resources and media, as well as regular office facilities.
Each module will contain guidance on content and methods for training facilitators, study guides and text
material for trainees, and a range of additional resource material, including where applicable other media
(e.g., video tapes, teaching resources, examples of pupils' work drawn from classrooms, and assessment
material). The modules will be designed for flexible use in courses taught face-to-face and in self-study
modes, by individuals and by groups. Through the nature of the instruction and the application of
principles to local contexts, they will be adaptable to the wide variety of teachers' needs across the country.
Each of the module will be trialed by about 400 teachers. The project will finance personnel and
consultant services for module teams, intemational TA, office space and consumables, equipment,
furniture, orientation and training for module team members, module development workshops, printing and
copying of modules for trial, and trial of modules.
Reinforce capacity of teacher training institutions, provinces and districts ($17.34 million). Apart frorn
the training associated with development and trial of the modules, institutional capacity will be
strengthened in several ways. The project will improve the primary departments in TTIs by: (i) providing
training, study visits, and scholarships for TTI staff, including one-month staff attachments to sister
institutions overseas; (ii) providing one teacher as a "teacher-in-residence" at each TTI, to strengthen the
link between TTIs and schools, and to assist lecturers and pre-service students in designing materials and
teaching support materials appropriate to primary school children; (iii) providing international TA in TTIs
to help build capacity for teacher education and application and use of distance education materials; and
(iv) provide an equipment package for TTIs. This component of the project will also provide funding for
staff training and equipment in TTI resource centers. Finally, it will build capacity at the province and the
district level by (a) proving training for district education staff and distance education tutors; (b)
refurbishing rooms in district education offices or nearby locations (N = 100) to serve as local teaching
resource and materials centers, providing them with equipment and published materials; (c) providing
opportunities for teacher trainers to apply for action research projects to be conducted in conjunction witl
schools and aimed at improving teaching and learning, and (d) operational support for local teaching
resource and materials centers (supplies, communications, etc.). The refurbished centers should provide a
rich venue for training activities as well as the tools and materials for teachers to develop their own
classroom materials to support active student leaming.
- 36 -



Appraisal of training packages and publishing ($0.33 million). Feedback on the trials will be collected
initially by module development teams through surveys, focus groups, reports by trainers, and evaluation
forms. In addition, standards-based performance criteria will be included in each module that will assess
the impact of the teachers' learning on pupil outcomes. This will be used to appraise the effectiveness of
the modules. Mainly this formative evaluation information will be used to adjust or correct aspects of the
materials and methods of delivery. In addition, the module development teams will provide summative
evaluation reports to the Training Coordination Team. The Team may also commission research studies
into the strategies for training teachers. The project includes a budget within TTIs to assist in the
evaluation and review of trials and to present findings at workshops and in newsletters (such a process
strengthens the capacity for research and evaluation of teacher trainers). The Training Coordination Team
will have a responsibility to draw implications from these evaluations and research studies for future policy
within the MoET. When the Training Coordination Team is satisfied with the quality of a package of
materials (or module) it will seek approval from MoET for mass production and further dissemination. The
project will finance workshops to review local level trials, TA to help prepare the final versions of training
packages to submit for appraisal, review of trials of distance education packages, an official appraisal of
the packages (to include printing of student, tutor and lecturer materials; duplication of video and audio
materials; and official appraisal by MoET).
Delivery and use of training modules ($3. 00 million). For the dissemination of completed modules after
trials and revision, the project will print additional copies of each module for Years 2 and 3 of the project
to be made available to current teachers, lecturers and students in TTIs (pre-service and in-service).
Modules will be distributed across all districts in the selected provinces and information provided to
schools and teachers on the training opportunities provided by the modules. Managers at school, district
and province levels will develop action plans for in-service training to allow targeting of the most urgent
needs (e.g., as identified through the application of the profile) while also providing opportunities for
individual teachers to opt for modules of their choice. They will arrange for different modes of delivery
and identify training facilitators in collaboration with TTIs and PETs. Where appropriate, under the
leadership of principals and other educational managers trained themselves through appropriate modules
and Component 3, a whole-school approach to professional development will be encouraged. District
Office Teacher Resource and Materials Development Centers (these are existing centers that will be
strengthened with additional resources) will be used as focal locations where teachers can access additional
support for teaching and leaming (equipment, library materials, facilities to adapt support materials for
their own teaching). Managers will also plan with teacher trainers the delivery of modules through
distance education. It is expected that about 25,000 teachers will follow training with each receiving on
average 10-12 training modules (thus, about 300,000 training modules will have been delivered to serving
teachers).
In the case of pre-service programs, TTIs will be free to use trialed and revised modules, further modified
locally if necessary, within their pre-service programs. The project will finance printing and distribution of
reference copies of modules for schools and districts, printing and distribution of extra copies of modules
for pre-service programs in TTIs, evaluation and feedback on the use of the modules (through workshops
and action research), and actual delivery of modules to teachers.
Outcomes: By the end of the project the following products will have been produced under this component:
* A total of 24 training modules (training packages for one topic) will have been developed;
* 14 of the modules will have been trialed, feedback obtained on their use, modifications made, and
the revised version used extensively in the 10 provinces;
*   Approximately 10,000 teachers/managers in 1,000 schools across 93 districts in the 10 pilot
- 37 -



provinces will have participated in the trial of the training modules (24 modules each trialed by
over 400 educators = 10,000 persons in the trials);
*   48,000 copies of in-service materials based on revised versions of the first 14 modules will have
been produced, distributed, and used in different delivery modes within the 10 participating
provinces;
* Training for managers will have been included in the training packages;
* 14,000 copies of modules (based on revised versions of the first 14 modules) will have been
provided to participating TTIs and used in pre-service programs;
*   MoET will have developed centrally a capacity for, and considerable experience in, the
identification of the professional needs of teachers and the design of programs to meet those needs;
*   The work on teacher profiles as a means to assess the skills of teachers and their highest priority
for further training will be accompanied by opportunities for them to undertake that additional
training and chart their professional growth;
*   Through training and experience, considerable expertise will have been developed in instructional
design, and curriculum and materials development by up to 60 persons in module development
teams;
*   Training in the delivery of in-service and pre-service programs for teachers using new methods of
instruction and appropriate support materials will have been provided to a cadre of teacher trainers
in 10 TTIs and the respective PETs and facilitators in 93 districts;
3   The management capacity of 10 TTIs and selected provincial and district offices will have been
enhanced through attachments of key personnel, training and project implementation activities;
The capacity of teacher trainers to provide opportunities for their students in new approaches to
teaching and learning and through the use of materials-based active learning will have been
enhanced through improved physical facilities, equipment and training;
-   Resource units in 93 districts will have been transformed into teacher resource and materials
centers, through refurbishment of room, provision of equipment, and training of staff. The centers'
effective use will have been demonstrated through the delivery of in-service training and the
provision of teacher support; and
3   About 300,000 training modules will have been delivered to about 25,000 serving teachers (each
teacher receiving on average 12 training modules). Systematic records on successful completion cf
training modules, demonstrated through performance criteria and other evidence, will have been
accumulated towards formal, upgraded teacher classification.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.67 million
Quality Assurance
Objectives: The objectives of this component are to ensure consistent interpretation and application of the
professional profile for teachers, to strengthen school leadership, and to develop a communications
strategy. The component will: (i) develop a more effective personnel management information system to
keep accurate and accessible personnel records on teachers; (ii) create a system of classification for
teachers that will help to link the level of professional development with opportunities for professional
growth; (iii) ensure the quality of training through an accreditation system that reviews the content of
training programs and the effectiveness of its delivery; (iv) create a climate of motivation at the school
level, reinforced by external support, based on school review and leading to strategies for school
improvement, including professional development for teachers.
Activities: Quality assurance (QA) coordination team ($0.95 million). The project will support a
Quality Assurance Coordination Team, with responsibilities to
*   provide a shared understanding of quality assurance for education managers and educators
- 38 -



involved in the project;
* arrange training for key persons with a role in quality assurance;
* develop a comprehensive framework for quality assurance for professional development including
assignment of responsibilities for various aspects of quality assurance;
* develop strategies and mechanisms for accrediting the delivery of teacher training and for the
classification of teachers;
* engage in evaluation, research and development activities related to quality assurance; produce
guides and other printed material (such as examples of best practice) for dissemination in the
system;
* produce timely policy advice to MoET on quality assurance policies and procedures;
* develop and implement a communication strategy for the project; and
*   provide support for school-initiated improvement via school review, action plans and monitoring
and evaluation.
The project will finance personnel and consultants (including a twinning arrangement with an overseas
organization involved in quality assurance and teachers classification), study tours, overseas training
courses, and development of QA documentation (including writing contracts, workshops, and printing) and
local opportunities for professional development.
Personnel Management Information System and consistent interpretation and application of the
professional profile ($0.72 million). In Component 1 of the project, following training for educational
managers and then for teachers at each school, the profile will be applied as part of the annual appraisal of
primary teachers. The numbers of teachers involved will increase each year until by the end of the project,
approximately 25,000 teachers in the target districts (approximately 93 districts across 10 provinces/cities)
will be participating. Data collected progressively over the three years will be incorporated into an
enhanced Personnel Management Information System. Using computers for data entry of the teacher
profile at the District level will be necessary so that data sent to provincial and central levels can be
retained with the teacher as the unit, and not aggregated. The QA team will develop guides for secure
handling of the data, including concerns for privacy.
Analyses undertaken will permit descriptions of the distribution of teachers on profile strands, broken down
by key variables (e.g., province, gender, urban v. rural, age, qualifications, etc.). Such analyses should
reveal broad consistencies in the application of the profile and provide benchmark data against which to
monitor and evaluate teacher development following the training initiatives in Component 2. The analyses
will also uncover any differences which would not be expected from previous surveys or known
characteristics of schools. This broad analysis of survey data will be complemented by selected qualitative
studies undertaken during school visits, including to schools with unexpectedly high, low, or otherwise
unusual profile distributions. Reports on the results will be discussed with the Profile Coordination team
and appropriate action (e.g., amendments to guides; additional training for managers) recommended where
necessary. Although the QA team will develop an appeals process, the primary emphases will be on
training for appropriate use of the profile as an index of a teacher's achievements, using evidence provided
by the teacher, as well as a means of identifying training needs. The project will provide resources for
development of a PMIS guide, printing of the guide, PMIS inputs and activities (software, personnel
records cabinets, data entry), training on PMIS for school principals and district officials, and provincial
and district workshops to analyze profile data.
Teacher classification ($0.55 million). This sub-component links demonstrated performance on the
profile to those objectives in Component 4 to develop new regulations on the classification of teachers
linked to deployment, conditions of service and incentives. Standards for classification of teachers
- 39 -



completing pre-service and in-service programs are currently designated under the Education Law as
professional secondary education diplomas, college diploma and university diplomas, or their equivalent.
These are commonly referred to as 12+2, 12+3, and 12+4 respectively. Under this sub-component,
analysis of data collected during trial of the profiles in Component I will be prepared, considered at two
high-level national seminars, and then recommended as new standards for different levels of classification
identified through "titles".
The difference between formal awards (diplomas, degrees) and the proposed levels of classification (titles,
should be noted. Formal awards will still be issued by TTIs based on successful completion of training
programs, with curricula based on the profile and delivered in part through the newly developed training
modules. Levels of classification will be defined by standards made explicit in the profiles and issued by
the Ministry of Education and Training. In demonstrating professional growth and qualifying to move to a
higher level of classification, teachers will be assisted by opportunities for in-service training in the form cf
the modules. Successful completion of modules, because of their assessment requirements, will provide
evidence of some aspects of achievement and performance defined in the profile. In addition, at the time of
annual assessment, teachers may also demonstrate professional growth on aspects of the profile by
providing evidence of high teaching performance as a consequence of experience in teaching, professionaL
commitment to their students and the school community, self education, the exercise of leadership in the
school, and so on. The evidence might include documents showing leadership or participation in
community events, data on changes in student achievement, development of teaching resources in the
school, peer reviews of teaching, participation in professional conferences, etc. This component of the
project will provide resources for TA to help in defining standards and procedures for certifying teachers,
training in teacher classification, and a national level seminar on teacher classification.
Accreditation ($0.45 million). The Quality Assurance Coordination Team will develop frameworks for
the accreditation of in-service training programs offered through TTIs and supported by Provincial
Education and Training Services (PETs). These programs will be offered through three modes - part time
study while on-the-job at the District Office resource centers or through in-school training programs,
summer programs, and distance education. With leadership provided by the QA team, an accreditation
group will formulate policies; define standards and evaluation criteria; determine accreditation procedures;
produce accreditation guides; strengthen capacity of the accreditation group to develop, implement and
review accreditation policies and procedures; and train and monitor extemal accreditation examiners. In
general, the accreditation process will include three elements: (i) an appraisal of institutional capacity (e.g ,
library, teaching resources, equipment, management practices, staff quality) of the organization offering
the training; (ii) a review of curriculum and materials including how modules have been adapted for the
local situation; and (iii) an evaluation of delivery (on campus, in districts or schools, or by distance
education) in terms of effective teaching, support for students, feedback to students, record keeping, and so
on. The project will provide resources for the work of the accreditation group including development
workshops, production and trial of guides, training for staff who carry out accreditation, travel and per
diems during institutional visits, and report writing accompanied by feedback to TTIs, PETS and others.
Communications and trainingfor school improvement ($1. 00 million). The QA team will, in liaison wilh
other component teams and project management, lead the development, preparation and implementation of
a communication strategy for the project. This strategy will raise awareness and convey essential
information on the objectives and processes supported by the project and on related aspects of the broader
changes in the primary education (e.g., curriculum reform and the education development strategy to 2010)).
The team will ensure that all stakeholders receive regular updates on project and related developments and
have opportunities to provide feedback . The diversity of stakeholders implies a need for a similar diversity
in the scope and nature of communications. A range of communication methods will be used, including
- 40 -



broadcast media (radio and television) and existing newspapers, magazines, and other print media.
The QA team will create training opportunities on school leadership and development (e.g., workshops,
staff exchanges, provision of local TA to schools, etc.) for school principals, deputy principals, and local
education managers. The training will be aimed at helping principals create good staff development plans,
ensure that those plans are integrated with other initiatives that need to be taken at the school level to
improve student learning outcomes, and ensure that teachers utilize their new skills in the classroom.
Principals will learn to create in-school professional development activities that will benefit weaker
teachers and complement more formal training programs offered under Component 2. They will also learn
how, at the level of the school, they should integrate staff development plans with other important
initiatives, such as the introduction of the new curriculum, introduction of new textbooks and learning
materials, implementation of the new education law, or initiatives to promote decentralization and
commnunity participation in schooling.
Outcomes: By the end of the project the following products will have been produced under this component:
* an effective communications strategy will be operational.
* a comprehensive quality assurance framework for primary teacher development and performance
will be in operation.
an improved personnel management information system (including records of teachers' status on
the profile, training completed, and qualifications) will be operational.
* a profile of the teaching force that shows the distribution of teachers by level on the profile will
have been produced and analyzed to check consistency of application of the profile across schools
and districts.
* teachers and managers will be confident that annual teacher assessment on the profile is being
consistently applied and interpreted.
: teacher training program accreditation standards and evaluation criteria will have been defined, an
accreditation committee established, procedures applied and review mechanisms established and
operational. This will ensure that, in the 10 provinces concerned, students who are training to be
teachers will receive similar high quality training, whichever college or institution they are being
trained in, and that serving teachers will have access to training of similarly high quality.
* systematic strategies for school analysis and school improvement will have been developed and
implemented in target schools.
* greater confidence will be evident amongst stakeholders (parents, teachers, school managers,
district, provincial and institutional authorities, MoET, other Government bodies and donors) that
the quality of primary education is being addressed in a coordinated and systematic manner.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
Revision in the Terms of Service for Teachers
Objective: The objective of this component is to develop proposals for: (i) revising the regulations and
compensation mechanisms that will enable teachers to provide full day schooling and for schools to teach
all subjects in the new primary curriculum; (ii) establishing a link between salaries and professional
performance; (iii) ensuring the appropriate appointment, assessment, rewards and sanctions for teachers in
schools; and (iv) improving the deployment of teachers.
Activities: Staff and consultants responsible for this component will:
*   establish the reality and the extent of current problems associated with the terms of service and the
supporting regulations for teachers by mean of discussions and workshops with Ministry officials,
- 41 -



local level officials and schools.
*   develop, analyze and test proposals for possible change by drawing on intemational experience, by
conducting brainstorming sessions and by testing ideas at the national and local levels.
*   refine, cost and test the preferred proposals by means of developing draft regulations, undertaking
financial analysis, holding discussions at the most senior levels of government and preparing a final
set of proposed changes; and they will prepare the chosen option in detail, conduct a fiscal impact
analysis, discuss the proposal in principle with central officials, conduct field consultations to test
feasibility, and conduct a final check on revisions in regulations.
*   produce an implementation plan and a communication strategy and agree with government which
provinces will pilot the changes. The implementation plan and communication strategy will include
the design of an evaluation methodology and training; the delivery of which will form part of the
govemment's revisions. The team will obtain final approval from Government on proposed
revisions in the terms of service, prepare an implementation framework for pilot provinces, devise
a commnunications strategy and conduct a media campaign, prepare an evaluation methodology tc
integrate into the pilot project.
Support will be provided for a terms-of-service team (including consultant services, support staff,
furniture, equipment, and consumables), travel and workshops, report writing, coordination with other
components and international advisors / technical assistance, preparation of a report on intemational
examples of personnel management practice, and training.
Outcomes: By the end of the project policy options should be developed, consensus for change built and
regulations drafted that:
*   propose three titles for primary education teachers related to the profile; redefine the terms of
employment, responsibilities and qualification requirements of teachers to fit with new
qualification requirements and titles so that new remuneration policies can be made and linked to
each title and level of primary teachers.
*   propose policies and solutions to deal with poorly performing teachers and with those who do no.
meet the qualification requirements after being provided with opportunities for training, to
encourage them to exit the teaching service.
*   review ways of measuring the workload of primary education teachers and so the required numbers
of subjects and classes to be taught by primary education teachers; assure flexibility so that
teachers, depending on their ability, can teach all the subjects for one class or some subjects for
many classes, or teach more than the standard requirements.
*   propose new arrangements for responsibility and autonomy of principals, district education offices
and departments of education for the recruitment, utilization, management, monitoring, rewarding
and sanctioning of teachers (in short all the tasks relating to school personnel and teaching and
leaming) in way that significantly increases the powers of principals.
*   construct regulations and mechanisms allowing principals to have power over the use of salary
allocation to pay salaries for teachers; for example to be able to reduce the number of teachers or
mobilize teachers of high qualifications to teach more than standard requirements.
*   provide supplementary awards for primary education teachers (e.g. people's teacher, supreme
teachers, etc.), particularly for teachers of ethnic minorities or those working in difficult areas.
Provide new regulations to increase salaries for teachers performing their work well.
Project Component 5 - US$4.42 million
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Capacity
Objectives: The objectives of this component are to reinforce the Ministry's capacity to: (i) coordinate
activities within the overall primary education development strategy of MoET; (ii) monitor and evaluate the
- 42 -



impact of the revisions in primary education, especially the impact of this project; (iii) prepare and plan for
follow-on activities that could, through a subsequent operation, expand improvements beyond the ten
project provinces; and (iv) ensure the timely implementation of the project according to the agreed
procedures and regulations.
Activities: Project oversight ($0.14 million). An inter-ministerial project steering committee will be
responsible for overseeing the implementation of the project in relation to the overall government economic
and social development policy and linking this project with the overall education strategy. Funds will be
provided if necessary to commission technical reports from consultants to assist this body in its oversight
functions.
Project C'oordination Unit ($2.05 million). A project coordination unit will be established to carry out the
day-to-day management of the implementation of the project activities. The PCU will be headed by a
full-time manager, assisted by specialists in administration/training, accounts/finance, procurement, and in
four technical areas (see below). The PCU will have sections that provide generic project management
functions such as administration and training, accounts/finance and procurement/contract management. To
the extent possible, during the life of the project, these generic functions will be rmainstreamed into the
MoET units with responsibility for such activities and services. Funds are available for PCU personnel
(local consultants), limited technical assistance, training, in-country travel, office space, furniture,
equipment, transport, consumables, and audit services.
Professional teams ($0.30 million). The project will further develop the capacity of the sector ministry in
teacher-related issues with professional teams, each led by a full-time professional officer, responsible for
conceptualization, coordination, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of each of the following
technical areas: (1) Teacher professional profiles and standards; (2) Teacher training course development
and delivery; (3) Quality assurance; and (4) Primary teachers terms of service.
Provincial and district teams ($0.50 million). Using their existing educational personnel each of the ten
selected provinces will each establish their Primary Teacher Development Project Implementation teams.
These teams will call on personnel from different departments at the provincial level that relate to primary
teachers such as the DoET, PETs, the Personnel Committee, the Finance Dept., and representatives of the
local TTIs and district education offices. Change facilitators will be identified from existing staff and
provided with facilitation skill training. The provincial team is responsible for implementing the
experimental activities (application of the professional profile, delivering of the training programs,
implementing quality assurance activities and participating in the policy dialogue for terms of service
revision). The provincial teams will train district-level change agents to facilitate the project activities at
district and school levels. Funds will be available for training provincial change agents, travel for
provincial team members, and workshops for training district level change agents.
Monitoring and evaluation capacity: ($1.11 million). The project will support monitoring and evaluation
of these activities and of other MoET programs related to the improvement of teachers. These M&E
actions will include: (i) a repeat of the national assessment of grade five pupil leaming performance in
Language and Mathematics; (ii) complementary primary classroom observations and teacher-related action
research; (iii) school-based research; and (iv) fiarther analysis of available M&E data.
Preparation and specification of project expansion ($0.32 million). This sub-component will provide the
necessary resources and personnel to compete a detailed plan for the expansion of the project activities to
other provinces not covered by this project. Preparation would include: (i) a workshop to review progress
of project; and (ii) design of procedures, modalities and implementation guidelines for expansion. Funds
- 43 -



will be available for workshops, travel and technical assistance.
Outcomes: By the end of the project the following products or services will have been produced or
improved under this component:
* Capacity to develop and support pedagogical reforms will have been built at central, provincial,
district and school levels with improved professional capacity.
* Managerial support for project implementation, procurement, disbursement, and reporting will be
increased.
* Capacity for regular monitoring and evaluation of the impact of this project and other activities on
student learning perfornance will be developed.
* Regular information flows to and from key stakeholders working to improve primary education.
* Design of the Government expansion phase with detailed plans that effectively integrate and
coordinate activities and personnel.
- 44 -



Primary Teachers Development Project Structure
INTERMINISTERIAL PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
MANAGER
Professional Team                       Generic functions
Coordinators
Profile Coordination Team       eAmi                       ii |
X,v,             .~~~~~~~~~~dmn &,,Tann
-  Traihing Coordination Team   4   _-|Proeujrement      l
A  Quality Assurance Coordination Team         Finance
XTerms of Service&ream 4.
PROVINCIAL PRIMARY TEACHER IMPROVEMENT TEAMS
. W__, \._~-----     - - -- - -,. .           .
,"' TEACHER                   DISTRICT
TRAINING                                         S DITRI  i'S
TEAMSSCOL
INSTITUTION   ,      x               . -                  -
existing
project specific
-45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                   US $million    US $million    US $million
Development of Primary Teacher Professional Standards           0.45          0.41           0.86
Training Programs for Teachers & Education Managers            10.93         11.36           :22.9
Quality Assurance related to Primary Teachers                   2.06           1.04          3.10
Revision of Primary Teachers' Terms of Service                  0.12          0.31           0.43
Sector Implementation, Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation    1.30          2.43           3.73
Capacity
Total Baseline Cost                                            14.86         15.55          30.41
Physical Contingencies                                         1.35          1.55           2.90
Price Contingencies                                            1.49          0.95           2.44
Total Project Costs'                17.70          18.05         355.75
Total Financing Required                 17.70          18.05         35.75
Local        Foreign         T'otal
Project Cost By Category                   US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                            2.12            6.98           9.10
Training (overseas)                                              0.00            3.63           3.63
Training ((local)                                                 6.89           0.00           6.89
Consultants (international)                                      0.00            3.82           3.82
Consultants (national/local)                                     3.61            0.00           3.61
Learning Materials                                                1.23           1.02           2.25
Operating Costs                                                   1.01           0.10           1.11
Physical Contingencies                                            1.35           1.55           2.90
Price Contingencies                                               1.49           0.95           2.44
Total Project Costs        17.70          18.05          35.75
Total Financing Required        17.70           18.05         35.75
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.3 (US$m) and the total project cost. net of taxes, is 33.45 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharng ratic s 59.31'% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 46 -



Annex 4
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
1. Economic rationale:
As often the case in education projects, the present project is not amenable to conventional
techniques of economic appraisal such as cost-benefit analysis. Moreover, since the alternative
design options for teacher training (and their respective costs) will be specified during the project,
it is not yet possible to attempt a cost-effectiveness analysis for selecting the least-cost option for
achieving the project purpose of building a high quality teaching service. At this stage in the
project's development, its economic justification is drawn from past sector work on the economics
and financing of education in Vietnam and elsewhere, while noting the intention to generate during
the project the necessary information upon which to base a more rigorous economic analysis.
The following analysis uses the existing literature to guide the team in responding to a hierarchy of
choices that include decisions to invest in education over other sectors, to invest in primary
education rather than secondary or tertiary, in the quality of education rather than the quantity, in
teachers rather than the other possible inputs into quality, and specifically in teachers development
and terms of service. It concludes by suggesting a framework for collecting information needed to
conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis on training options that will guide investment decisions for
program expansion.
Why Education .......?
Educational attainment is critical to economic and social development and to human well-being.
This view is supported by an extensive body of literature concluding that both economic growth
and equity benefit from universal basic education and a wide spread of secondary education.'
Where rates of return have been estimated, they have usually been high, especially at the primary
level. In the case of Vietnam, estimates of the social rates of return range from 10% for primary
education to 3.8% and 3.0% at the margin for secondary and tertiary education, respectively
(World Bank, 1996, p. 99). These estimates are based on data compiled for the 1992-93 Vietnam
Living Standards Survey (VLSS). It is likely that the relatively low rates at the secondary and
tertiary levels reflect a labor market which was not yet significantly liberalized, in which wages and
salaries were still somewhat compressed. The data generated from the recently completed 1997-98
VLSS shows a substantial increase in wage employment and a closer alignment of wage rates to
payments for human capital. The data also shows annual earnings rising rapidly. These indicators
of labor market reforms suggests that if one were to re-estimate rates of returns to education, they
would be considerably higher than those estimated using the 1992-93 data.
This expectation is supported by research showing that while returns to education tend to be low in
centrally-planned and transition economies compared with those observed in market economies,
they increase rapidly as economies liberalize. Estimated rates of return to education in China
during the 1 980s ranged from 1% to 5%2 . Low rates of return have also been found in other
command economies in the latter half of the 1980s: 2.9% in Poland and 4.3% in Hungary.'
Evidence from Slovenia shows that, between 1987 and 1991, workers with four years of university
education gained most in increased earnings, followed by those with two years of university
education.
- 47 -



The potential rates of return are significant. Psacharopoulos (1993) estimates the rates of return to
different levels of education and finds the lowest rate of return is the OECD countries, where it is
close to the long-term opportunity cost of capital. Private returns are considerably higher than
social returns because of the public subsidization of education; and primary education investmeni
provides a particularly high return for developing countries.
Regional average rates of return to investment in education
Social                         Private
Primary  Secondary    Higher     Primary  Secondary   Higher
Region
Asia*                             19.9%      13.3%      11.7%      39.0%     18.9%      19.9%
Sub-Saharan Africa                24.3%      18.2%      11.2%      41.3%     26.6%     27.8%/,
Europe, Middle-East, North Africa*  15.5%    11.2%      10.6%      17.4%     15.9%     21.7%
Latin America, Caribbean          17.9%      12.8%      12.3%      26.6%     16.8%      19.70%'
OECD countries                    14.4%      10.2%       8.7%      21.7%     12.4%      12.3%
World                             18.4%      13.1%      10.9%      29.1%     18.1%     20.30%3
Non-OECD
Source: Psacharopoulos (1993)
The importance of education is therefore particularly critical during this period of economic
transition in Vietnam. An expanded and improved educational system is a fundamental
requirement if Vietnam is to realize the aspirations implicit in its economic reform agenda and to
facilitate the exploitation of the new technologies and investment opportunities offered by greatet
reliance on the market and private sector development.
Education plays an important role beyond the strictly economic dimensions of development,
impinging on broader social aspects. The development of civil society is an integral feature of the
development process, in which education and the freer flow of information are crucial elements.
Literate citizens are better able to play a full role in public and civic affairs. Education fosters and
facilitates the collation, analysis and interpretation of information. It enables and promotes wider
popular participation, hence enriching and legitimizing decision-making processes. Higher levels;
of education are associated with a wide range of indicators of well-being that are not captured in
conventional analyses of rates of return, including better health, lower fertility, decreased
household vulnerability to shocks, and increased social mobility.
The beneficial aspects of education, actual and potential, have been acknowledged in Vietnam.
Government spending on education and training grew rapidly during the 1990s. The share of
current spending on educaiton and training in total current spending increased from 11% in 1994 to
17% in 1998, or by more than 50%. Over the same period, current government spending on
education and training as a share of GDP increased from 2.2% to 2.5%, despite decreases both in
the share of current spending in the total budget (from 74% to 68%) and in total spending as a
proportion of GDP (from 25.3% to 19.9%). This reflected the government's policy of protecting
current spending on education and training during a period when overall macroeconomic policy
dictated the need for strong fiscal adjustment, including expenditure tightening. The 2000 PER has
recommended a further increase in spending for education and training to 4% of GDP.
The high priority accorded to it by the government reflects a traditional respect in Vietnam for
education. General education indicators in Vietnam are impressive. The adult literacy rate is
about 88%. The net enrollment rate in primary education was 92.1% and 90.7% in 1998, for boys
-48 -



and girls, respectively. At lower and upper secondary levels net enrollment rates increased
dranatically over the same period. At lower secondary level in 1998 the rates were 61.3% (boys)
and 62. 1% (girls), roughly twice their respective rates in 1993. The increase in upper secondary
net enrollment rates have been even more dramatic, albeit from lower levels: from 8.4% (boys) and
6.1% (girls) in 1993 to 30% and 27.4% respectively in 1998.'
These indicators also compare favorably with other, much richer, countries in the region. In
particular, Vietnam's enrollment performance now is relatively stronger than Hong Kong, Japan,
Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Taipei-China in the past at the start of their development
processes. When enrollment rates for the different education levels are regressed against per capita
GDP, Vietnam typically "out-performs" these countries when they were at Vietnam's current level
of per capita GDP.' However, there are some important differences between Vietnam today and
these countries in the past. Many of these countries placed a strong emphasis on primary
education (basic education was essentially free of user charges) and an efficient input mix,
including generous teachers' remuneration.
Education Outcomes and GNP Per Capita
Samoa                                              *Korea
c 0.9      * Philippin  s
*Fiji
> 0.8  * Vietnam      * Thailand
X  lndones        * Malaysia
-  0.7  *M    a Chi___
E 0.6        * Vanu itu, Papua New Guinea
E         * Solomon s.
 0.5    Lao PDR
ui
a 0.4 -
* Cambodia
0.3                             ,
0           2000           4000          6000          8000          10000
GNP Per Capita
Why Priimary-Level Education .......?
Some aspects of the justification for focusing on primary education have already been noted in the
previous section, e.g. its relatively high social rate of return. A strong primary education system is
also the necessary foundation on which to develop the secondary and tertiary education systems
and facilities. This is especially needed in Vietnam's transitional phase given the enhanced
potential for realizing higher rates of return at secondary and tertiary levels. In particular, in the
context of increasing globalization and skill-biased technical progress, employment opportunities
will progressively favor educated labor-market entrants with the requisite training and skills.
Education at the primary level, however, also holds particular relevance in addressing issues of
socio-political importance, which in turn have potentially beneficial economic implications.
- 49 -



Primary education has a crucial role in catering to basic human needs. It is an important factor in
reducing poverty since, quite apart from any productivity enhancing benefits which may be
derived, educational qualifications are themselves often an important key to labor-market access
and improved employment and income-eaming opportunities. Even if such employment is not
highly paid, for poor people it improves their well-being through greater stability of earnings and
security. Since the children of poor people are generally least able to participate in formal
education, it is they who have the greatest potential to gain from improved educational access.
This effect is clearly manifested in Vietnam, where poverty rates decline with higher levels of
education and those with a lower secondary education or below make up almost 90% of the poor.'
The highest incidence of poverty (57%) is for those who have not even completed primary
education, while there is hardly any poverty (4%) among those with a university education. The
social integration and empowerment which education fosters has already been noted. More
specifically, the 1997-98 VLSS points to the adverse impact of education and linguistic constraints,
which limit the representation of ethnic minority people in local authorities and reduce their
confidence to access public services. The poverty reducing potential from education (especially a1
primary level) is patent, given a poverty incidence among ethnic minorities of 75% (compared witl
31% among the Kinh majority). Whereas ethnic minority people make up only 14% of the
population, they account for 29% of all poor people in Vietnam.'
The association between low education attainment and poverty is not unidirectional. Poverty itsel-f
is cited by respondents in all Participatory Poverty Assessments as the single most important factor
in children dropping out of school at low levels of attainment. Problems spring typically from the
burden of having to pay school fees and associated costs. The differential in access is not acute a:
primary level, where net enrollment rates range between 96.4% among the highest
income/expenditure quintile and 81.9% among the poorest. However, the discrepancy becomes
progressively greater at higher levels, until, at post-secondary level the respective net enrollment
rates are 28.9% and 0.4%. Moreover, although school fees are progressively structured, in that
they favor low-income households, especially in view of the primary fee exemption, they represen1:
only some 30% of what household pay directly to schools and a much smaller proportion of
households? total school-related expenditures. Total expenditures paid directly to schools increase
with household income much less proportionately than do school fees alone, so the overall structure
of such payments is much less progressive than is the structure of school fees. Moreover, because
school enrollment is positively correlated with household income, the structure of school fees is less
progressive for the entire population of households with school-age children than it is for those
with children actually enrolled.
Similarly the relationship between economic growth and poverty reduction is not unidirectional,
i.e., from growth to poverty reduction. An increasing body of research has shown that, conversely,
the more equal is the initial distribution of income or national resources, the faster is economic
growth.' The importance of capital distribution is particularly stressed, and this applies also to
human capital distribution, with implications for more equitable access to education.' The
dramatic increase in Vietnam's growth during the 1990s is substantially attributable to the land
reforms implemented under the economic reform program inaugurated in the late 1980s. This wis
associated with some subsequent increase in inequality, with the Gini coefficient increasing from
0.33 to 0.35, and the ratio of the richest to the poorest quintiles' expenditures rising from 4.9 to
5.5, between 1993 and 1998, reflecting increased inequality between regions and a widening
urban-rural gap. Nonetheless, the acceleration in growth facilitated a substantial reduction in the
incidence of poverty, from 58% to 37%.' Vietnam remains a moderately equal society, with Giiii
coefficients comparable with South Asia and lower than in some East Asian countries. However,
- 50 -



its future growth will depend in part on its present ability to distribute educational opportunities
equally among various segments of its population.
Why Quality of Education rather than Coverage (Quantity) .......?
It has been noted above that quantitative education targets, especially at primary level, have been
nearly achieved, viz. net enrollment rates of some 90%. Nonetheless, enrollment rates are not the
whole story. The main focus now needs to be on improving quality, which, in the first place,
implies enhanced quality of inputs and instruction. This refers most directly to such factors as
school/class resources. (On a wider definition this would also include influences outside the formal
educational environment, such as the home support.)
A complex mix of qualitative and quantitative factors make for an inefficient use of resources in
Vietnam's schools and contribute to a widespread perception that the quality of education is
declining. Vietnam's primary schools provide only approximately 660 hours of classroom
instruction per year, compared with an average of 900-1,000 world-wide. The reasons, which are
undoubtedly inter-related, include: low salaries, forcing many teachers to shorten the school day in
order to take a second job"; overcrowded facilities, forcing managers to run multiple shifts; and a
short school year, of 165 days compared to an international norm of 180 or more. The implication
is an average school day of less than four hours, involving instructional exposure for individual
pupils of no more than two hours. Undermining the promise of high enrollment rates in primary
education, only 68% of pupils entering primary education eventually graduate, and those who do
graduate take on average 6.8 years to complete the five-year cycle. This both inflates the costs of,
and reduces the rates of return from, education.
Although system cost savings could expect to be achieved through reduced drop-out and repetition
rates (reducing both the time taken for pupils to graduate and the proportion of "wasted" time in
school) this in itself will require up-front investment in improving and expanding school capacity
and related resources and in enhancing the quality of the curriculun and pedagogical methods.
Some of these costs may need to be borne by the government, but also by private contributions
from parents. Other kinds of costs, such as the up-grading of teachers' skills and capacities - and,
ultimately, a potentially substantial increase in teachers' salaries, reflecting both their improved
qualifications and heavier teaching loads - will need to be met largely from public funds.
Why Teacher Training and Terms of Service ......?
The quality of teachers ..........
The methodological basis for establishing the relationship between education and economic
development has a long pedigree. Attempts to measure educational attainment - and what
influences it - are much more recent and less developed. However, some recent studies do provide
evidence of the importance of staff quality in schooling outcomes. A study of education in
Vietnam has analyzed the impact of various indicators of school quality on children's success at
school.  This found the strongest (and significant) association to be with teacher quality, with the
second strongest influence being the quality of current inputs." Another study, focusing on
primary education in five provinces in Vietnam, has tried to identify the factors that contribute
most strongly to quality education." The model constructed includes three "explanatory"
environments - school, classroom and home - each of which consists of several dimensions. The
findings point to the dominant influence of the school environment (consisting of "administration",
- 51 -



"policy" and "resources"), and within it that of resources (comprising housing, electricity and water
supply, building standard, and school possessions). The influence of the classroom environment
appears to be the weakest of the three, although within it the most important element is "practice",
comprising the use of teaching time and teaching activities.
Less than 72% of teachers in Vietnam's primary and secondary schools possess the suggested
mninimum qualifications. Moreover, teaching methods are no longer suitable in the Vietnam's
changing social and economic conditions. The quality of teachers needs to be enhanced through
training, together with their ability to teach the new curriculum, which has been introduced on a
rolling basis from 2000/01 school year.
Many econometric and statistical studies have focused on the consequences of teacher's general
skills as captured by education or experience. A second strand of research has looked at the
question of how specific episodes of on-the-job training and in-service training affect pupil
performance. In spite of the importance and potential cost effectiveness of in-service training, the
literature on the effects of this sort of training is sparse. A study by Angrist and Lavy (1998)'
estimated the impact of a handful (random) of public schools receiving a special infusion of funds
earmarked to in-service training (pedagogy not subject content) and examined the impact on
mathematics and language test scores. They attempt to assess the economic value of training: by
comparing the treatment effect and costs of training to the effect size and costs of altemative
school improvement strategies involving a reduction in class size and lengthening the school day.
The analysis suggests that in-service teacher training provides a less expensive strategy for raising
test scores than reducing class size or adding school hours.
....... and their incentives .
A World Bank comparative analysis of primary teachers' salaries in the region shows that
Vietnam's primary teachers' salaries remain compressed - along with China, Sri Lanka and the
Philippines. Primary teachers' salaries were 1.7 times per capita GDP, while Thailand and
Malaysia paid 2.5 - 2.7 times per capita GDP. This low wage rate may be a reflection of the
perception in some circles that primary teaching is a part time job in Vietnam.
The fiscal analysis carried out for this project assumes the 2000 PER recommendation of raising
education and training expenditure as a percentage of GDP to 4% will be taken on board by the
government and GDP growth will rise from 4.5% in 1999 to 6.0-7.0% between 2001-2004. It
takes account of the recent 25% increase in teachers' salaries and assumes that wages will continue
to rise with inflation. The financial analysis projects a budgetary 'cushion' in the order of 20-30C/o
of education and training spending. It is assumed that this cushion could finance salary increases,
teacher training and other non-salary expenditure (see section E, 2 "Financial Analysis" above).
The quality (and quantity, in terms of hours inputs, etc.) of teaching, however, depends on a
number of factors, such as teachers' terrns of service, including remuneration, and their skills and
capacities. The low pay of teachers and limited time spent teaching have been mentioned already.
Undoubtedly the compensation system for teachers will need to be further improved, such that it
offers better incentives for professional development and good performance. This will need to
gauge how much extra pay will be required to compensate teachers for teaching a full day (and a
longer school year). Among other factors, this will depend on the amounts that teachers currently
eam from moonlighting, and, since teachers are civil servants, the feasibility of enhancing their pay
either within the wider framework of the public sector salary structure or other measures. These
- 52 -



questions are being addressed in a study intended to provide the necessary information and data to
contribute to the "Terms and Conditions of Service" component of this project. The upgrading of
teachers' quality should be seen as an essential complement to the enhancement of their terms and
conditions of service.
A note on broader work force conditions
The 1997-98 VLSS points to an average annual growth in population of working age of about 2.6%
between 1992-93 and 1997-98. This translates into a net increase of about 1.11 million people
entering the labor force. The average annual increase in employment over the last 12 months was
about 1.07 million jobs. And although the new data confinns self-employment as the primary
form of employment (wage employment accounts for 20% of all employment), wage employment
in the public sector saw a net increase of 250,000 wage jobs. The public share of wage
employmnent has not changed much since 1992-93, holding the share at 41%. Wage trends reflect a
close alignment of wage rates and human capital payments, with a 9% average hourly wage growth
rate between 1992-93 and 1997-98. Average hourly wages have increased by all levels of
educational    attainment, from an average of 2,010 VND to 3,150 VND between 1992-93 and
1997-98. The highest growth was secured by services, of which teachers comprises 26%. The
data also shows individual and household annual eamings rising by an annual growth rate of
12.2% (the highest earnings growth were secured in the North Central Coast, followed by the Red
River Delta, while the lowest was in the Mekong River Delta, followed by the South Central
Coast).
II. Cost Effectiveness:
The improvement of the quality of teaching can be approached through various modes of
instruction: e.g. residential summer courses, distance learning, and other in-service models.
Different variants will be suitable for teachers of different quality, age and experience, and may
vary in terms of cost and effectiveness. Information on the different costs of delivery modes is not
yet available and analysis of a least-cost option will await data generated during this project.
However, as mentioned at the start of this Annex, the required information will be generated during
the project, based in part on the results of the pilot teacher-training programs to be implemented in
selected provinces.
Information on the costs of various modes of training delivery and on the effectiveness of each
mode (as measured by the progress of a teacher on his or her professional profile) will provide the
basis for a cost-effectiveness analysis study that will inform investment choices during the
Government's expansion of the program. The cost-effectiveness analysis could evaluate the
different alternatives of teacher training delivery according to both their costs and their effects in
terms of advancing teachers on their professional profile. The cost effectiveness analysis could
evaluate the primary output from the project: "Teacher advancement as measured by profile level
and strand" against the cost of its main input "Training (delivered through various modes)".
The Personnel Management Information System will track teacher progress on the professional
profile. It will provide information on the specific rankings for each teacher by strand (pedagogical
skills, content knowledge, and personality). Beginning in 2003, it will also provide information on
the overall level of classification for each teacher (teacher, key teacher, or senior teacher).
Teachers will be assessed on the profile before and after training, allowing one to measure progress
in terms of overall level of classification or within a particular strand.
- 53 -



Draft model table
Level of Classification               Strand 1: Pedagogical    Strand 2: Content                  Strand 3:
Skills                     Knowledge                        Personalit__
Senior Teacher
Key Teacher
Teacher
The PMIS will also keep a record of teachers' training activities. It is expected that there will be
three modes of training: in-service, summer and distance training. The likely costs elements of the
training are specified in the draft model table below.
Example of cost data needed for cost effectiveness analysis of teacher training delivery
'00,000 VND                                                          In-service  Pre-service   Distance
Total annual cost
I  Capital costs (depreciated over 5-10 years)
Upgrading new training colleges
Equipment
additional facilities (e.g. video room)
New training colleges
full building cost
acquisition of land
1I Recurrent costs
Materials (annual books/chalk/etc.)
Trainers' salaries
Travel expenses of students
Per diems
Bills (mail, telephone, electricity, water, heating, etc.)
Cost of a substitute teacher
III Cost recovery
Payments made by teachers
III
Total unit cost
1+11-III / Number of teachers receiving training
* Costs here are unit costs per teacher per year. However, it might be more useful to obtain costs per teacher per training course This
would imply that all courses have unit duration.
Source: MoET and its decentralized administration annual audited accounts by school.
- 54 -



The cost-effectiveness analysis could relate the costs of the training that a teacher takes with his or
her progress in terms of classification or movement within a strand to determine the most
cost-effective modes of training. The next step is to evaluate cost-effectiveness ratios with regard
to desired outcomes. The table below presents a set of possible and hypothetical cost-effectiveness
results for teacher training. Three alternative methods of securing advancement on the profile are
evaluated according to their cost and effects. The cost-effectiveness ratios show the cost per
teacher for a one-increment improvement, on average, in the profile strand. The most effective
approach in terms of moving teachers on the profile when costs are ignored for advancement in
pedagogical skills (in-service) ranks first and yields the same rank when costs are taken into
account. While the most effective method when costs are ignored for advancement in content
knowledge (summer) is only the second most effective (second to distance). This would illustrate
that the most effective approach is not always the most cost-effective and when educational
decision-makers have a binding training budget constraint this decision data is invaluable.
Hypothetical cost-effectiveness results for teacher training programs: Phase 11
Method        Cost per Teacher   Average Incremental Movement        Cost/Effectiveness
'00,000 VND         on the Professional Profile        '00,000 VND
In-service
Pedagogical skills      3,500                     2 levels                      1,750
Content knowledge       2,800                     1 Level                       2,800
Leadership skills       3,500         _          1.5 Levels                     2,333
Summer
Pedagogical skills      4,500                    1.5 Levels                     3,000
Content knowledge       4,000                     2 Levels                      2,000
Leadership skills       4,500                     1 Level                       4,500
Distance
Pedagogical skills      2,500                     1 Level                       2,500
Content knowledge       2,000                    1.5 Levels                     1,333
Leadership skills       2,500                     2 Levels                      1,250
* Costs are calculated for one week of training per teacher.
Notes
1.      See for example: F Bourguignon, "Growth, distribution and human resources", in G Ranis
(ed.), En Route to Modern Growth: Essays in Honor of Carlos-Diaz Alejandro (Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, 1994); F Bourguignon and C Morrison, "Income distribution, development
and foreign trade: a cross-sectional analysis", European Economic Review, 1990, pp. 1113-1132; G
Papenek and 0 Kyn, "The effect on income distribution of development, the growth rate and
economic strategy", Journal of Development Studies, 1986, pp. 55-65; J H Jung, "Personal income
distribution in Korea, 1963-1986", Journal of Asian Economics, 1992, pp. 57-71.
2.      Jamison and van der Gaag (1987), Byron and Manolato (1990), Meng (1995), cited in
World Bank, op. cit., p. 96. Another study estimated significantly higher returns to education
among industrial workers in China who had found work on their own, compared with those who had
been allocated jobs by the State (R G Gregory and Xin Meng, "Wage determination and
occupational attainment in the rural industrial sector of China", Journal of Comparative
Economics, 1995, pp. 353-374).
- 55 -



3.      See G Psacharopoulos (1994), cited in World Bank, op. cit., p. 96.
4.      Note, however, that these increases in lower and upper secondary enrollment rates
represented a reversal of the reduction in enrollments which had set in over the period 1989-1991,
which had in part reflected the increase in the imputed direct costs of education (i.e. foregone
earnings) during a period when economic growth accelerated dramatically, from 4% in 1987 to ox er
9% in the mid-1990s.
5.     World Bank, op. cit., p. 1 17ff. Even so, (gross) enrollment rates in secondary and tertiary
education in Vietnam lag behind the current averages for low- and middle-income counties in Asia
(52.5% and 5%, respectively).
6.     Joint Report of the Government-Donor-NGO Working Group, Vietnam Development
Report 2000: Attacking Poverty, Consultative Group Meeting for Vietnam, December 1999, p. 21.
7.     Ibid., p. 32.
8.      See for example: K Deininger and L Squire, Does Inequality Matter? Examining the
Links between Growth and Inequality (World Bank, Washington DC, 1996).
9.      See S Anand and M Ravallion, "Human development in poor countries: On the role of
private income and public services", Journal of Economic Perspectives, 1993, pp. 133-150.
10.    See Vietnam Development Report 2000, op.cit., pp. 4, 68, 69.
11.    In 1998, teachers' average monthly salaries were VND 455,000. Only in the agriculture
sector were state employees earnings lower, at VND 439,000. The highest earnings were in
transportation, at VND 1,162,000 per month. (Estimates quoted from IMF, Staff Country Report
N. 99/56, Statistical Appendix). As a comparative yardstick, the poverty line adopted in the
Vietnam Development Report 2000 is VND 150,000 per month.
12.    Cf J R Behrman and J C Knowles, "Household income and child schooling in Vietnam",
The World Bank Economic Review, Vol. 13, No. 2, 1999, pp. 211-56. Indicators of school quality
included school staff, current inputs, congestion and facilities. Indicators of success in school
included the age at which children started school, grades passed per year of school, last completed
grade and exam score in last completed grade. (This article cites a number of other studies
analyzing the relationship between school quality and school output in developing countries.)
13.    The components of the "staff quality" indicators included the qualifications of the head
teacher, the years of experience of the head of school, the proportion of the school's teachers who
are qualified, the proportion of teachers who are ranked "excellent" or "good" by the head of school,
the proportion of teachers who are full-time, and the average teaching experience of teachers. The
components of "current inputs" included the proportion of class-rooms wired for electricity, with
legible blackboards, and with ceiling fans; whether the school had safe water, hygienic latrines, a
library, a science laboratory; the number of computers per student and the number of textbooks pt'r
student for rental or loan to poor students.
14.    See Tran Kieu and P Griffin, "Educational quality and efficiency in Vietnam", January
- 56 -



2000.
15.    Angrist, 1. and V. Lavy, 1998, 'Does teacher training affect pupil learning? Evidence from
matched comparisons in Jerusalem public schools,' NBER: http://www.nber.org/papers/w678 1.
Also see their paper on class size: http://www.nber.org/papers/w5888.
16.    Bales, S., 2000, 'Vietnam's Labor Situation and Trends: Analysis Based on 1992-93 and
1997-98 VLSS, Background papers to Vietnam Development Report 2000.
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD                   _______
| Year I   Year2            3 Year3   '4 Year 5  I Year 6          Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.0        9.0       11.0        9.8        3.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.0        9.0       11.0        9.8        3.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.0        9.0       11.0        9.8        3.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/iDA                   2.0        4.0        7.0        5.0       1.9
Government                 0.2        1.5        1.5        1.5       0.9
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
DFID                       0.8        3.5        2.5        3.3       0.2
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      3.0        9.0       11.0       9.8        3.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 58 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Procurement
The Ministry of Education and Training (MOET) will be responsible for coordination and
implementation of the project, including procurement. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be
established in MOET and it will be responsible for all procurement under the project. The PCU will be
headed by a full time Manager appointed by MOET, who will report to the Deputy Minister. The PCU
will be staifed to provide the generic project management and professional functions, which will
include staff for coordination of: (i) administration and training, procurement, and financial
management; (ii) senior specialists as coordinators of each of the four'professional teams, each
responsible for conceptualization, coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all
aspects of the respective project components (i.e. Teacher Professional Profile Development, Teacher
Development and Training, Quality Assurance, and Terms of Service for Teachers). The Government
will also put in place an inter-ministerial project steering committee comprising of representatives of
the Office of Government, the Ministries of Finance, Planning & Investment, Education & Training,
the Government Committee on Personnel, and the State Bank of Vietnam. The inter-ministerial project
steering committee will provide overall policy guidance for implementation and will monitor the
achievement of the project objectives. The PCU will function as the secretariat of the inter-ministerial
project steering committee, carry out the day-to-day administration and management of the project. An
organizational chart of the institutional arrangements for project implementation and the inter-agency
and stakehol c- relationships that relate to project implementation appears in Annex 2 under
Component 5.
The MOET has developed project management capacity --including procurement-- under the two
on-going IDA financed education projects, but this project's PCU does not have experience with Bank
procurement procedures for goods and services, except for procurement conducted while implementing
the US$0.9 million PHRD grant for preparation of the project. Therefore, improved procurement
capacity will be critical to the success of the project and procurement difficulties are likely to be
encountered during implementation, particularly in the first year of operation. A procurement capacity
assessment of the PCU in MOET was carried out during pre-appraisal and has been updated on the
basis of information made available to the appraisal mission. The assessment has confirmed that the
PCU's procurement capacity needs to be strengthened. It was agreed that the government will take the
following actions before the effectiveness of the Credit: (i) before the end of the year 2001, a
deputy-manager of the PCU and the designated staff will take procurement training, both in the country
(to be provided by the IDA Field Procurement Officer) and intemationally (at the ILO Training Center,
Turin, Italy); (ii) the PCU will retain the services of a qualified and experienced procurement
consultant for a total of 12 months and a senior implementation advisor for a similar period to
supplement the capacity of the PCU; and (iii) the PCU will assign qualified counterpart staff to work
with the procurement consultant, and these staff will assume the procurement function after necessary
training, on-the-job and abroad, prior to the end of the assignment of the procurement consultant. The
procurement consultant will be selected and mobilized prior to effectiveness of the Credit. The
selection mechar sm and terms and conditions of the contract will be subject to prior review by the
IDA. The draft action plan (below) to strengthen the procurement capacity of the PCU was discussed
and finalized during negotiations. The procurement capacity of the PCU will be re-assessed after the
first year of the project implementation.
- 59 -



Procurement Capacity Building Action Plan
Action:                 Time-Frame:                 Carried Out by:
Conduct Basic Procurement        After Appraisal    IDA Field Procurement Officer
Workshop
Attend ILO Procurement Training    After Appraisal  Deputy manager of PMU
Sign contract for International  Before Effectiveness  MOET and PCU
Procurement Advisor
Conduct Project Launch Workshop   In parallel with  IDA Task Team and Field Procurement
to                             Effectiveness
reinforce procurement procedures in                 Officer
the DCA and disbursement letter
Conduct Goods Procurement       Before the first ICB   IDA Field Procurement Officer
Workshop                          and NCB
Conduct Hiring of Consultants   Before the first    IDA Field Procurement Officer
Workshop                          QCBS,
QBS or CQ hiring
Supervision Missions            Every 6 months      IDA Task Team and Field Procurement
Officer
Post Reviews, including NCBs and    As frequently as  IDA Field Procurement Officer
consultations                   needed
The project launch workshop shall be conducted immediately before the effectiveness of the credit and
is tentatively planned for March 2002.
A draft Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) conducted by IDA in association with the
Government in 1998 was not finalized due to a later issuance of a Government new Decree
88/1999JND-CP effective on September 16,1999 approving new Procurement Regulations. The
conclusions of the draft CPAR are generally positive. There have been definite improvements in the
quality of the public procurement regulations and procurement practices in the country and a positive
direction is visible. However, the principle conceptual divergence from the Bank Guidelines lies in
Government's lingering preference for quality based selection and the consequent non-transparent bid
evaluations. Another major deficiency in the newly approved Procurement Regulations is that
procedures for national competitive bidding (NCB) do not conform to IDA procurement policies and
principles. For example: bid security requirement, requirement to pre-disclose bid evaluation and
award criteria, advertising, participation of foreign bidders, etc. The NCB procedures to be followed
under the project were discussed and agreed during negotiations and a side letter was attached to the
minutes of negotiations:
National Competitive Bidding procedures will include the following: (a) bid security requirement
which has to be valid 30 days longer than bid validity; (b) explicit statement to bidders of the
evaluation and award criteria; (c) local advertising with public bid opening; (d) award to the
lowest evaluated bidder; and (e) foreign bidders would not beprecludedfrom participating in
NCB.
- 60 -



There are twenty-five Bank financed projects under implementation in Vietnam. The overall
procurement performance under these projects has been generally satisfactory except some cases of
procurement delays, which are mainly attributable to the inexperience of the procurement staff and
inadequate coordination among the agencies involved in project implementation.
Procurement Methods
All procurement financed by IDA and DFID will follow Bank's Guidelines as stipulated below:
Procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). Bank's standard bidding documents and
preference for domestic manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines
for ICB procurement.
Procurement of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection
and Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). Procurement of consultant services will use the
World Bank Standard Request for Proposal Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised
April 1998 and July 1999 and all consultant contracts will use the Bank's standard Forms of Contract
for Consultant Services. Large-value consultant contracts costing more than US$200,000 each shall
be advertised in both intemational and national newspapers and in Development Business (UNDB). A
general procurement notice will be published in the UNDB at the end of February 2002.
Table A. I summarizes the procurement arrangements under the project, and Table A.2 shows selection
methods for Consultant Services.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods (US$ 10.55 million equivalent)
Goods procured for the project will include computers, printers, local-area network servers, setup and
internet connections, photocopiers, video equipment, office equipment, furmiture and vehicles. Where
possible, items will be grouped into packages in order to attract competition. Contracts valued less
than US$50,000 each and up to an aggregate amount of US$560,000 can use international shopping
procedures with comparison of three price quotations from at least two countries, or national shopping
procedures where the desired goods are ordinarily available from more than one source in the country
at competitive prices. Requests for price quotations will indicate the description and quantity of the
goods as well as the desired delivery time and place. Some off-the-shelf standard items such as office
equipment, computers and printers, vehicles can also be purchased directly through any UN agencies,
for example: IAPSO, UNICEF or WHO, as appropriate. Contracts valued less than US$100,000 each
and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.72 million will follow national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures. Contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 each will follow intemational
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
- 61 -



Consultant Services (US$8.81 million equivalent)
Consulting services will be 100% financed by the IDA-administrated Grant from DFID. Consultants
will be procured following the Bank's Guidelines using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS),
Quality-Based Selection (QBS), Contract by Qualification (CQ), Single-Source Selection (SS) and
individual consultants by qualification as appropriate. Least-Cost Selection (LCS) method will be used
for the Audit Service for Program contract estimated less than $125,000 under Component 5.2. Table
A.0 provides detailed description of the services to be provided by firms and individuals including
estimated costs under each of the proposed selection methods. Individual consultant selections will be
selected on the basis of consultant qualifications consistent with Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines.
Private consulting services in Vietnam are currently in a nascent state. Public universities, planning
and research institutes, and knowledge centers and their staff comprise a unique source of local
knowledge and expertise in Vietnam and such institutions would be eligible to provide highly
specialized services. Thus, given the unique and exceptional nature of some consultant services, for
which there are no suitable private sector alternatives, it was agreed during preparation, that
government-owned universities and research institutes will be hired either directly or as sub-consultailts
to provide some critical services (teacher profile application and classification, training materials
development and delivery). Institutions and individuals from such entities would be selected through
SS or CQ procedures as national firms and national individuals.
Training (US$12.40 million equivalent)
Annual training programs including TORs, selection of trainees, venues and participants of overseas
study tours and fellowships will be subject to Bank's prior approval. Training funds will largely cover
local workshops and seminars as well as international and national fellowships and overseas study
tours using government's administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local training in
workshops, seminars and in-service professional courses will be conducted by the MoET, the PCU,
provincial education departments and provincial TTIs and will not require competitive contracting.
Training expenditures will only cover related costs such as meeting room rentals, training materials,
per diem and travel allowances excluding salaries for government staff. Overseas training will be
co-financed by IDA and DFID.
For each training activity a training information sheet will be submitted to the Bank for information
prior to the project expenditure for that specific activity. This training description sheet will include
the following information: (i) course objectives, expected outcomes, certificates offered if any
(including the content and training methodology, participants number, entry qualifications of trainees,
duration, location, staffing/faculty and trainers); and (ii) a summary list of other documentation for
training (including the budget of the training course). A draft model training activity information sheet
is provided in the Government's PIP documentation.
Learning Materials (US$2.66 million equivalent)
Procurement of learning materials will include printing of forms and manuals, purchase and copying
video and audio tapes as well as library books and journals for TTIs and district resource centers.
Contract value less than US$50,000 each to an aggregate amount of US$530,000 can use international
shopping procedures with comparison of three price quotations from at least two countries, or national
shopping procedures where the desired goods and related services are ordinarily available from more
- 62 -



than one source in the country at competitive prices. Contract value less than and equal to
US$ 100,000 each and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1,330,000 will follow national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts value greater than US$100,000 each will follow international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
Operating Costs (US$1.33 million equivalent)
The project incremental operating costs will be financed 100% by the Government. Incremental
operating costs include travel and subsistence allowances for project management, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation, office consumables and utilities, as well as office space rentals and related
operating costs for local institutions including district resource centers. These will be availed of in
accordance with Government administrative procedures.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Learning Materials. Contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 each will be
subject to prior review. All other contracts below the prior review threshold will be subject to random
post review.
Consultant Services. All individual contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 each and
firm contracts valued greater than and equal to USS100,000 each will be subject to prior review. All
other consultant contracts below the prior review threshold will be subject to random post review. In
addition, all SS contracts and Terms-of-reference (TORs) will be subject to prior review regardless of
value.
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Credit of US$19.84 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of
three-and-one-half years, up to the closing date of December 31, 2005. The allocation of Credit
proceeds according to each expenditure category is shown in Table C. Retroactive financing will be
available for eligible expenditures incurred after May 31, 2001 up to a maximum of US$500,000.
Allocation of DFID Grant Managed by IDA (Table D)
The proposed grant of US$10.29 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of three and one
half years, up to the closing date of December 31, 2005. The allocation of DFID Grant proceeds
according to each expenditure category is shown in Table D. Procurement eligibility restrictions of
IDA 11 or 12 will only apply to the overseas training expenditure category, and would not apply to the
consultant services expenditure category, since this category is 100% financed by DFID.
- 63 -



Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Disbursement from the Credit and DFID Grant will be
fully documented for: (i) contracts valued greater than and equal to US$ 100,000 for goods and learning
materials; (ii) firm consultant contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 each; and (iii)
individual consultant contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 each. Disbursement for all
other expenditures including training funds will be disbursed against SOEs with supporting
documentation retained in PCU and made available for IDA review during supervision. SOEs will be
subject to an annual audit. All other disbursement from the Credit or DFID Grant would be supported
by full documentation and signed contracts.
Special account. To facilitate disbursement of the Credit, the MoET's PCU will open and maintain
two separate special accounts for IDA Credit and DFID Grant in a commercial bank specifically
designed for the purpose of this project by the Borrower's Central Bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The SAs should include appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. IDA's Special Account, which would cover its share of eligible expenditures in all
disbursement categories except leaming materials, would have an authorized maximum allocation of
US$2,000,000 with an initial amount of US$ 1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit account and
deposited into the IDA SA. The full US$2,000,000 allocation shall be withdrawn when the amounts
disbursed total US$8,000,000.
DFID Special Account, which would cover intemational and national consultant services and some of
overseas training expenditure categories, would have an authorized maximum allocation of
US$ 1,000,000 with an initial amount of US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant account and
deposited into the DFID SA. The full US$1,000,000 allocation shall be withdrawn when the amounts
disbursed total US$4,000,000.
Applications to replenish the SAs, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted
regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal to
50% of each of the initial deposits. The SAs shall be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable by IDA.
Financial Manaaement
Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
A financial management assessment of the implementing agency was conducted by the firm Grant
Thornton (report dated March 9, 2000). The areas covered by the assessment included: understanding
the project and the country environment, and examining prior experience, records management, intemal
control, accounting, staffing, software, audit arrangements, reporting and funding sources. The
assessment found that the financial capabilities of the Project Management Unit and related entities
require significant capacity building and strengthening in staffing and training, financial management,
and record management to enable it to properly manage and implement the project. The following
actions were recommended to address major weaknesses: 1) existing record management systems,
internal control and project accounting methodologies require improvements; 2) sufficient PMU
management and staff with appropriate qualifications and experience need to be recruited on a full-tirne
basis, and 3) appropriate accounting software which deals with planning, procurement, and financial
reporting requirements needs to be identified and installed, and its users provided with appropriate
training. Based on this assessment an action plan has been developed and agreed with the Governmen-t
to improve financial management of this project. (see the action plan presented below).
- 64 -



A recent Country Financial Management Assessment concluded that there is a certain degree of
fiduciary risk in the use of public resources, particularly at the sub-national level. Additionally, the
current budget arrangement in Vietnam suffers from a lack of transparency for achievement of
objectives.
However, the fiduciary risk for this project will be manageable considering the steps outlined in the
action plan. Additionally, the following remedial steps will be taken to lower the fiduciary risk,
particularly in procurement: (1) the project will set up an independent, external oversight body,
consisting of high-level representatives from the public sector, (2) the project will primarily procure
goods and services centrally, under relatively close scrutiny of Bank personnel, and (3) the project will
receive additional comfort on risky costs, such as local training costs, through special work conducted
by the extemal auditor.
Project Management
MoET has experience in managing two current IDA-financed projects and several other projects
supported by multilateral and bilateral agencies. The proposed project will be managed centrally by a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in MoET. The PCU will be established to carry out day-to-day
management activities. The PCU will be headed by a full-time manager, assisted by specialists in
administration and training, accounts and finance, procurement, and each of the four technical areas.
The PCU will have sections that provide generic project management functions such as administration
and training, procurement, and finance. To the extent possible, these generic functions will be
streamlined into the current MoET arrangements for these services. The project coordination unit will
also have professional teams, each led by a full-time professional officer, responsible for
conceptualization, coordination, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of each component.
These teams are: (1) Professional Profile Coordination Team; (2) Teacher Training Technical Support
Team; (3) Quality Assurance Team; and (4) Terms of Service Team. Funds are available for PCU
personnel (local consultants), TA, training, in-country travel, office space, furniture, equipment,
transport, consumables, and audit services. During the appraisal mission, the task team reached
agreement with the MoET on the fornat of "simplified" Project Management Reports (PMRs). It is
expected that funds from an ongoing PHRD grant will be used to assist the MoET in implementing the
tasks scheduled for "Before Effectiveness" in the Action Plan presented below.
In Section G above, effectiveness conditions are proposed to implement the action plan items scheduled
to be completed prior to project effectiveness. If these actions are taken, this project will meet the
minimum requirements for proper financial management as set forth in OP/BP 10/02.
Audit Arrangements
Independant auditors will be selected under a competitive process from a list of qualified firms
maintained by the World Bank. The auditors will be appointed as soon as project funds are disbursed.
A standard terms of reference will be used to require the auditor to opine under international auditing
standards on the project financial statements (including an SOE Statement) and a Statement of Special
Account. In addition, the auditors terms of reference will include the requirement to provide separate
assurance on local training costs, due to their greater susceptibility to misuse. Audit costs will be
financed under the project. The financial statements will be audited and presented to the World Bank
within six months of the end of each full fiscal year.
- 65 -



The Financial Management Action Plan
Action:                             Agreed Date             Responsibility
Appoint qualified financial management staff   Before Effectiveness        MoET
Design and implement a records management system Before Effectiveness      MoET and consultants
that documents project activities separately
distinguishing expenditures to be financed by
Govemment, IDA and DFID respectively, and
protects project records
Establish a chart of accounts that will meet the  Before Effectiveness     MoET
recording and reporting needs of the GOV and the
Bank
Complete and adopt financial management manual  Effectiveness              PCU/Consultant
acceptable to IDA. Draft to be submitted to IDA
before Effectiveness
Procure, install and train staff on a software package Before Effectiveness  MoET
that will facilitate the compilation of project financial
statements and PMRs
Appoint an Extemal Auditor                     End of January 2002         MoET
Produce PMRs                                   18 Months After Effectiveness  Manager of PCU &
MoET
For the Government's planned expansion of the  6 to 12 months before the   Manager of PCU
program, develop procedures and train staff at the    end of the project
provincial level to properly disburse, record and
report funds used
-66 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              8.27              1.72           0.56          0.00        10.55
(7.29)           (1.56)         (0.51)        (0.00)       (9.36)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00           0.00          8.81         8.81
Intemational & National               (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training                           0.00              0.00          12.40          0.00         12.40
(0.00)           (0.00)         (8.06)        (0.00)       (8.06)
5. Learning Materials                 0.80              1.33           0.53          0.00         2.66
(0.73)           (1.21)         (0.48)        (0.00)       (2.42)
6. Operating Costs                    0.00              0.00           0.00          1.33         1.33
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              9.07              3.05          13.49          10.14       35.75
(8.02)           (2.77)         (9.05)        (0.00)       (19.84)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
" The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" are: (i) international shopping with three
price quotations from at least two countries, (ii) national shopping with three quotations from qualified
suppliers; (iii) UN agencies purchasing; and (iv) training activities using government's administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
NBF: DFID will finance consultant services in accordance with the Bank Consultant Guidelines and GOV will
finance the incremental operating costs in addition to taxes of US$2.30 million.
- 67 -



Table AO: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
I                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sol
Ref. Detailed 
Num   Table |   Expenditure Category       Notes   QCBS       aBs    SFB   LCS         cQ      Other  source contc)
ber Number|                                                                  Lt                          r
A.1
Firms -
Internati
onal
1 2.2.A  Intemnational firm contract to         153,256
conduct (1) in-service teacher
training needs assessrent; & (i)0
to define the specificationand
content of the in-service teaoe
2.3.B  Intemational firm contract to    same as   223,579
provide advisors and TA to  abv
support mrial developmeiat
teams and prepare training
modules
2.5.B  Int. TA to prepare training  same as   192,686
material package for offcial0  ae
2.3.B  international firm contract to    same as   124,953
provide advisors and TA to  above
support desdign and production
of distance education versions of
mo6dules
694,474                                           ___   694,474
2    31 .A  Twin link contract for Quality         271,826                                                    271,826
Assurance and teacher course
program accreditation
3   2.4.A.3 International TA for teacher ed.        90,109
deveioment in TTis                   ___                               _______
5.3.C  i5terional TA advisor on    same as   182,469
teacher improvement for     abv
provinces and district level
2.4.A.3 Intemational TA to support the  same as   164,637
applicaion and use of DE    above
materalinTTIs
437,215                                        _ ._    437,215
4    5.4. B  International TA to undertake a                                         86,438                    86,438
Classroom Observation study of
the project Impacts._ _
5    1.1 .D  Twin link contract with overseas  Sole                                           270,559 SS
nstitution for Teacher      Sorce
Prfesonal;Pnoafil Team C  f a ;0V'00 ft 
1 .3.A  tnt. TA forapplication of Profile  same as                                       46,849 SS
to Teacher Assessment       above
3.3.A  Int TA to anlzye profiles and to same as                                          103,666 SS
map to a teacher classification  above
-_____  68____________________   -_______  __ _421,074       4
-68 -



6    52. K  Audit services for project  Audit                             120,503                            120,503
services
7   4.1.B.6 intemational TA to identify reality              68,056
and scope of issues that relate to
teachers terms of service
4.2.A  tntemational TA to develop,  same as             83,553
thru D  Analyze and Test Proposals for above
Change
4.3.A  Intemational TA refine, cost and same as        117,002
thru E  validate the selected option  above
4.4.A  Intemational TA to develop  same as              74,359
thru D  implementation plan &      above
communication strategy for
revised teachers ToS
342,970                                          342,970
A.2
Firms -
National
8    2.3.A  Multiple local contracts for                                          1,514,322                 1,514,322
national specialists to reinforce
Materials Development Teams
9   2.3.1-C  ontract sevices to develop, edit               371,784                                           371,784
sub   and copy audio & video learning
materials
10   5.4.C  Contract for data collection of                  500,008                                          500,008
student performance M&E of the
project impacts
B. Individuals - International
11   1.4.8  International TA to support                                                       147,691         147,691
continuing action research to
refine the teachers professional
profile
12    5.1.  international TA to support                                                       109,227         109,227
B,C,D  project oversight
13   5.2.8  Two Intemational TA advisors                                                      584,268         584,268
(implementation and
procurement)
14   5.4.A  Intemaltional individual contracts multiple                                       361,471         361,471
for supplementary analysis of   indiv.
assessment data             contracts
15   5.4.D  Four international individual sole four int.                                      161,878 4 indiv.  161,878
source contracts for analysis of  sole                                                   SS
new student assessment data   source
(M&E)
16   5.5.8  International TA to prepare the  multiple                                         223,918         223,918
design of the expanded (follow-  indiv.
on) program                 contracts
- 69 -



B. Individuals - National
1 .A  National consultnats to join the  multiple                                           156,731          156,731
Profile coordination team    local
indiv.
contracts
1.3 C & Local consultants for data entry  multiple                                           20,562           20.562
E    of profile forms             local
indiv.
contracts
1 .4.A  Local research grant contracts   multiple                                           51,019           51,019
with TTI staff for Continuing  local
Action Research on profile   indiv.
Contracts
2.1.A  Local consultants as members of                                                     460,733          460,733
the Training materials developent
team
2.4.A.2 Local "teachers in residence" at                                                    499,317          499,317
TTIs
2.6.C  Local consultants to carry out                                                       22,610           22,610
action research on module
delivery & use
3.1.A & Local consutlants to form the QA                                                    198,486          198,486
D    team members
3.2.A & Local consultants to draft guides                                                    36,055           36,055
C    and enter data for Personnel
Management Information System
3.3.A & Local indiv. Consultants for                                                         17,013           17,013
B    mapping profiles/titles and
drafting guides for Classification
4.1 .A  Local consultants to support the                                                    23,419           23,419
ToS work (p)t secretary &
translation)
4.1.B.1 Localconsultants asteamrn    LI & L2                                                 21,468
thru 5  mremnbers for identification of!
reality and sCOpe of work on ToS
4.2. A  L6cal consultants to develoip:,  LI &L2                                              19,353
thru E  analyze and test proposals for
change in teachers ToS
4.3. A  Local consutlants to define, cost L1&L2                                              20,238
thru F  and validate selected option ofir
revised teachers ToS
4.4. A  Local onsultants to develop  Ll &L2                                                  22,917
thru E  impentation Plan and
commIunication strategy fo,r;00000t; i0
4.4.B & Local medacomnications       L1 & L2                                                  7,016
C    cnsutstant to prepare training &  0 i0 ;0 0
=         X~~~ediia inform*ation on 0teachjersi;;b                                               09i=_           9,9
-______                                       90,992           90,992
-70 -



5.1.A  Multiple local indiv. Consultants                                                    31,207           31,207
for project oversight
5.2.A  Project Coordination Team &                                                         773,941          773,941
Professional Team Members
5.3.E  Research contracts to support                                                        52,958           52,958
teacher improvement in
provinces
5.5.B  Local consultants to prepare                                                         29,683           29,683
follow-on & expanded program
Total                               1,403,515 1,214,762    0 120,503 1,600,760 4,474,253         6,613,763
Notes: (1) QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SFB  = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   = Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.,
NBF = Not Bank-Financed
(2) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
Highlighted text indicates services that are grouped into larger contracts. The total for eadc grouped contract is shown in the final
column.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection  Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category    QCBS          QBS        SFB        LCS         CQ       Other    N.B.F.   Total Cost
A. Firms                     1.40       1.22       0.00      0.12        1.60       0.42       0.00        4.76
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)        (0.00)
B. Individuals               0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      4.05       0.00        4.05
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)        (0.00)
Total   1.40        1.22       0.00      0.12        1.60      4.47       0.00         8.81
_  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single-Source and Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines)
All consultant services contracts are financed by DFID.
NB.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millicns)
1. Works
2. Goods                  Less or = $50,000     International or national
and Learning Materials                         shopping, UN agencies
Less than $100,000            NCB                     9.07
Greater than and equal to       ICB
$100,000
3. Services
Firm                 > 100,000 and all SS and    QCBS, QBS, CQ, SS            4.76
TORs regardless of value
Individual           > 50,000 and all SS and  SS, Consultant qualification    4.05
TORs regardless of value
4. Training             Annual training program         Other                   12.40
regardless of value
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$30.28 million
[85% of total project
costs]
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
All post reviews, one for every five contracts including NCBs will be carried out by the Procurement
Officer in the field, and consultations as frequently as needed.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 72 -



Disbursoment
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                      9.54          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally)
Training                                   6.07                         65%
Learning Materials                         2.43          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally)
Unallocated                               1.80
Total Project Costs                       19.84
Total                                     19.84
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of DFID Grant Managed by IDA
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Consultant Services                          8.00                      100%
Overseas Training                            1.19                      35%
Unallocated                                  1.10
Total DFID Grant                             10.29
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              01/15/1998                   01/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      05/02/2000                   06/02/200]I
Negotiations                                     10/22/2001                   11/09/20C]
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/29/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education and Training
Processing:
At the request of Government, appraisal was deferred for twelve months while the Government completed
its review of the feasibility of the project. When this was completed the project was re-appraised by the
Bank in August 2001.
Preparation assistance:
Government-executed PHRD Grant of US$892,700 and Bank-executed DFID TF of 301,200.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Christopher Shaw                   Principal Education Specialist
Mai Thi Thanh                      Operations Officer
Christopher Thomas                 Education Specialist
Carol H.L Chen Ball                Procurement Accredited Operations Officer
Behdad Nowroozi/Robert O'Leary     Sr. Financial Management Specialists
Omowunmi Ladipo                    Financial Management Specialist
Karen Hudes                        Senior Counsel
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                    Senior Counsel
Hoai Linh Nguyen                   Team Assistant
Kathy Li Tow Ngow                  Program Assistant
DFID staff and others who worked on the project included:
Name                        Specialty
Steve Passingham     Senior Education Advisor
Lindy Cameron        Govemance Advisor
Peter Owen           Senior Governance Advisor
Michael Schultz      Senior Social Development Advisor
Peter Balacs         Senior Economic Advisor
Samya Beidas         Economist
- 74 -



Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                        Specialty
Neil Baumgart       Education Specialist
Michael Boesen      Survey/Data Specialist
Bemadette Robinson   Teacher and Distance Learning Specialist
Quentin Thompson    Education Systems Advisor
Kathryn Riley       Education Specialist
Stefan Nachuk       Institutional Development Specialist
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File'
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Detailed project description
* Detailed implementation plan
* Detailed cost tables
* Detailed procurement plan for first year
* Project Management Structure and Implementation arrangements
* Detailed Terms of Reference for each unit (Steering Committee, PCU, key project & professional staff)
* Technical requirements of training modules
* Teacher professional profile
* Monitoring and Evaluation plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Financial Management System assessment
* Procurement Assessment
3 Environment Data Sheet
C. Other
3 PHRD studies:
1.    School Census and Teacher Survey (ACER)
2.     Survey of Teacher Training Institutions (Madecor)
3.     Distance Education Study (Illawara)
4.     Teacher Professional Standards (Melbourne University)
* Stakeholder analysis
3 Budgeting and Financing study
 Public Expenditure Review
*Including electronic files
- 76 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
07-Nov-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P059936        2002 Northern Mountains Poverty Reductbn                  0.00     110.00                            0.00     111.30       0.00       0.00
P004850        2001 VIETNAM- POVERTY REDUCSUPPORT CREDIT                 0.00    250.00                              0.00     150.90      -0.64      0.00
P042927        2001 VN-MEKONG TRANSPORUFLOOD PROTECTION                  0.00     110.00                             0.00     110.26      5.92       0.00
P052037        2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANIT.                                0.00     166.34                             0.00     163.62      2.00       0.00
P062748        2001 COMMUNTY BASED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                  0.00     102.78                             0.00     102.60      0.00       0.00
P042568        2000 COASTAL Wetl/Prot Dev                                0.00     31.80                              0.00     28.21       9.05       0.00
P059864        2000 VN-RURALTRANSPORTII                                  0.00     103.90                             0.00      86.65      19.25      0.00
P056452        2000 RURAL ENERGY                                         0.00     150.00                             O.0O     139.43     63.88       0.00
P051553        1999 VN-3 CITIES SANTATION PROJECT                        0.00     80.50                              0.00      75.40      9.06       0.00
P004845        1999 MEKONG DELTA WATER                                   0.00     101.80                             0.00      89.12     40.11       0.00
P004833        1999 VN-URB TRAN IMPROVEMENT                              0.00     42.70                              0.00      35.55      28.43      0.00
P004828        1999 VN-HGHER EDUC.                                       0.00     83.30                              0.00     71.76       25.05      0.00
P045628        1998 TRANSMISSION & DETR                                  0.00     199.00                             0.00     164.21     166.55     63.36
P004843        1998 VN-INLAND WATERWAYS                                  0.00     73.00                              0.00      61.56     42.93       0.60
P004844        1998 AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                                 0.00     66.90                              0.00      51.46      13.99      0.00
P004839        1998 FOREST PROT.& RUL DE                                 0.00     21.50                              0.00      18.15      9.48       0.00
P004630        1997 VN-WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                              0.00     98.61                             26.85      36.92     60.38       1.48
P039021        1997 VN-RURALTRANSPORT                                    0.00     55.00                              0.00       0.51       3.29      0.00
P004842        1997 VN.HIGHWAY REHAB II                                  0.00     195.60                             0.00      78.30      88.83      0 00
P036042        1996 BANKING SYSTEM MODER                                 0.00     49.00                              0.00      30.69      38.10     29.38
P004841        1996 VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH                        0.00      50.00                             0.00      1879       14.81      0.00
P004838        1996 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPOFT                           0.00     101.20                             0.00      52.17      50.27      0.00
P004847        1996 RURAL FINANCE                                        0.00     122.00                             0.00       1.26      11.61      0.00
P004834        1995 IRRIGATION REHABILIT                                 0.00     100.00                             0.00      33.22      36.27      0.00
P004832        1994 VN-HIGHWAY REF-AB                                    0,00     158.50                             0.00      16.64      22.28      19.85
P004835        1994 VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION                                 0.00      70.00                             0.00       7.00       9.56       7.48
Total:        0.00    2693.43                            26.85     1735.69     770A5      122.15
-77 -



VIETNAM
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Q)uasi  Partic
1995                Baria Serece Prt               1.00    0.00     0.00    0.20     1.00    0.00     0.00    0.20
1996                Kyoei Steel                    8.57    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                MFL Vinh Phat                  0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996                Mom.StarCement                24.88    0.00     0.00   50.18   24.88    0.00      0.00   50.18
1997                NATL                          20.00    0.00     0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00      0.00   20.00
1995/97            Ngni Son Cement                21.24    0.00     0.00    17.59   21.24    0.00     0.00    17.59
1996                SMH Glass Co.                  8.33    0.00     0.00    2.81     8.33    0.00     0.00    2.81
1996                VILC                           0.00    0.75     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75      0.00    0.00
1996                Vimaflour                      5.00    0.00     0.00     1.50    5.00    0.00     0.00     1.50
Total Portfolio:        89.32     0.75     0.00    92.28    89.17    0.75    0.00   92.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998               BA RIA                           24.20      0.00       4.00     49.00
2000               Interflour                         8.00      0.00      0.00      5.00
2001               RMIT Vietnam                       7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        39.70      0.00      4.00     54.00
-78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
VIETNAM: PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &      Low-
Vietnam     Pacific  income       Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         78.5     1.853     2.459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      390      1,060       420
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       30.4      1.964      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                           1.5       1.1        1.9
Labor force (%)                                          1.7       1.4        2.4     GNI                               Gross
per                             ptimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                  0     'enrollment
PovertV (% of population below national poverty line)    37
Urban Dopulation (% of total population)                 20         35        32
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                         69         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                 37         35        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               37         13                     Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     56         75        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15/)                       7         14        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   114        119        96            -       ietnam
Male                                                  116        121       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                111        121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              ..       6.5      28.7       31.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                           13.0      25.4       27.4                     Trade
Exports of ooods and services/GDP                      26.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                               6.0
Gross national savinas/GOP                                                                               A
Current account balance/GDP                             -5.4       4.0        1.6     Domestic                     Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                                    0.7       1.1        1.5     savings
Total debt/GDP                                        359.6       81.1       49.8     s
Total debt service/exports                               8.9      10.0        7.0
Present value of debtUGDP                                         75.6
Present value of debUexports                                     153.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(avera.e annual growth)
GDP                                  4.6       7.9       4.8       5.5        6.8                   Vietnam
GDP Der capita                        2.2      6.0       3.5       4.1        5.4                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 23.4      22.6      14.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            so
Agriculture                                             37.5      25.4       24.3
Industry                                               22.7       34.5      36.6      40
Manufacturing                                         18.8       17.6               20
Services                                                39.9      40.1       39.1
Private consumption                                     86.5      68.8       66.6    .20      9    ss   97   se   99   ox
General government consumption                           7.5       7.1        6.4               -               0GDP
Imports of goods and services                          33.4
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    4.3       4.8       5.2        4.0    80
Industry                                                12.1       7.7       10.1    so
Manufacturing                                                                       o -  .. ._
Services                                                 7.8       2.2        5.6    20
Private consumption                                     10.2                          o
General government consumption                          10.9       2.5                       95   96   97   98   99  0o
Gross domestic investment                              20.2       -3 0       10.9            -Exports              lnmpDrns
Imports of goods and services                          29.4       25.5       15.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comDared with its income-group average, If data are missinqg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 79 -



Vietnam
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)i
Domestic prices                                                                     3
(% change)                                                                            .
Consumer prices                                       36.4        4.3      -1.8    20 -
ImplicitGDPdeflator                             ..    42.1        5.6      5.3         31N
Govemment frnance                                                                   o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         ss   9s   97   98   99
Current revenue                                       14.7       19.6      19.6    10
Current budget balance                         ..      0.0        5.9      4.8             -     GDP deflator    +CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -0.8     -1.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1980    1990       1999      2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   1,731      11,540    14,448    20,000
Rice                                          ..    272         969      667
Fuel                                          ..    390       2,092     3,548     15oo000
Manufactures                                  ..
Total imports (df)                             ..   1,901      13,480    14,259    10,000
Food                                          ..      86                           5,005
Fuel and energy                                      356
Capital goods                                 ..    561           ..       ..
94  90  96  97  98  99  50
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..
Import pnce index (1995=1 00)                  ..       ..         ..        .                 * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990        1999      2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..   1,913    14,010    17,107       s
Imports of goods and services                   ..   1,901     13,480    17,344
Resource balance                                ..      12       530      -237       o  _
Net income                                      ..   -412        -427     -597                                     99   x
Net current transfers                          ..       49      1,050    1,341      -5
Current account balance                        ..   -351        1,154      507        -      *
Financing items (net)                          ..    510         130      -412
Changes in net reserves                        ..   -159    -1,284         -95    -15
AMemo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               ..  6,482.8  13,944.0  14,170.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  23,270    23,260    15,600
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                G  ,0       :111
IDA                                           2       59       989     1,113                G31,700    s:1,113
Totaldebtservice                                       174      1,410     1,218        D, 1, 141
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        1         8         9       F: 3.1 10
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..       96       257
Official creditors                           ..    -86         839       973
Private creditors                            ..        0      -781      -717
Foreign direct investment                    ..       16      1,609
Portfolio equity                             ..        0         0                                         E: 8,220
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0       318       260      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 1        0       158       175      B-IDA    0- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          0        1         2         2      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                      1       -1       156       173
Interest payments                             0        0         7         7
Net transfers                                 1       -1       150       166
EASPR                                                                                                                  9/6/0
- 80 -



Additional
Annex 11
Format for reporting Key Monitoring Indicators
Project indicators
Indicator            End Year 1           End Year 2   End Year 3
Status of development  Drafted            Tested        Revised and agreed with key
of the teacher                                          stakeholders
professional profile
Number of teachers    2,160 teachers                    25,000 teachers
assessed on the profile
Cumulative number of 6 modules            14 modules    24 modules
training modules
developed
Number of training                                      At least 14 out of 24 modules
modules given final
approval by MoET
Number of teacher                                       200 trainers who have followed
trainers trained to                                     long-term training courses and 200
deliver modules                                         trainers who have followed short-term
training courses
Number of modules                                       250,000 out of 300,000 modules (i.e.,
completed by teachers                                   25,000 teachers each having studied
10 modules)
Status of development  Drafted            Tested        Revised and agreed with key
of an accreditation                                     stakeholders
framework
Status of development  Drafted            Tested        Revised and agreed with key
of a teacher                                            stakeholders
classification system
Status of work on a                       Options       Options agreed with key stakeholders
revised terms of service                  identified    and regulations drafted
for teachers
Government                                              A plan for program expansion
demonstrates readiness
to implement an
expanded and
improved program of
teacher training
- 81 -



Suggested Format for Provincial Scorecard: Province "XX"
INDICATOR                        2001    2002    2003    2004    24105
Effective Teacher Training
% of all teachers who have been assessed on the profile  0     5       38       76       95
Number of teacher training programs that have been    0        2        3        3        3
submitted for accreditation review
Number of fully accredited programs                   0        0        1        2        3
Number of teacher trainers trained to deliver new    15       40       80      100      1]10
modules
Improving Teacher Skills
Distribution of rated teachers by level and strand
Strand 1, level 1                                           60%      58%      55%      5(0IWo
Strand 1, level 2                                           25%      25%      26%      25%
Strand 1, level 3                                           15%      17%      19%      25%
Strand 2, level 1
Etc.
Strand 3, level I
Etc.
Distribution of teachers by the number of program
modules in which they enrolled in the current year.
0 modules                                         100%      80%      60%      40%      20%
1 module                                            0%      10%     25%      40%       55%I/o
2 modules                                           0%      10%      15%      15%      15%'I/
3 or more modules                                   0%       0%       0%       5%      1 0%1/O
Effective Terms of Service
Student:teacher ratio                                28       29       30       32       32
Average number of classroom teaching hours           12       14       16       18   =18
- 82 -



Additional
Annex 12
Additional References
Brooke, Peter, Duong Thi Thanh Mai, Nguyen Huu Tu, and Kitty Stewart. Education Financing Study
Primary Education in Vietnam. September, 1999.
Center for Development Studies. Vietnam Primary Education Teacher Project Stakeholder Analysis Final
Report. Swansea, Wales: Center for Development Studies, University of Wales, October, 1998.
Cuban, Larry and Tyack, 1995 : Tinkering Toward Utopia: A Century of Public School Reform. Boston:
Harvard University Press, 1995
Kieu, Tran and Patrick Griffin. Educational Quality and Efficiency in Vietnam. Paper presented at the
International Congress on School Effectiveness, Hong Kong, January 3-8, 2000.
MoET. Ministry of Education & Training. Primary School Curricula for the year 2000. Hanoi: MoET
1997
Shulman Lee. Those Who Understand: Knowledge and Growth in Teaching. Education Researcher.
February 1986
South East Asia Network for Cooperating Educators. Teacher Training: Lessons from Asia. Newsletter
#4. Washington: World Bank March 19, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Region, Human Resources Operations Division. Vietnam Education Financing
Sector Study. Washington: The World Bank, October 1996.
World Bank. Aide Memoire - Mission notes. Vietnam Primary Teacher Training Project. PHRD Mission,
December 3-18, 1998.
- 83 -



-84



MAP SECTION






10 I2-                                IL                               I IOL'                            1W-I9]ID
jil f mms g F  s   *z>v\z= i,, 5                            _C H I N A                   ---
.\.
/ SH io*                         _j
'Kr    tCa\s>                                t'iL                         ,F,
22% ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ um P2                       ,    t\   ,y;                                                                                 2220    
LAO PEOPLE'S                                       27                                                                          Hain ni
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                   ( Chine)
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 ~ ~ ~     ~           ~          ~          .
-~ -  - -- ------'f  ,::
54                                                                                                                   24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
102}                                                                                                             >          t      .  -=,o,
VIETNAM
PRIMARY TEACHER                                      ''~     
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                <
4't.  PROJECTPROVINCES(10TOTAL)
TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
4  AIRPORTS                       NATIONAL ROADS                  C        MB    0   DI   A  
. PORTS                           RAILROADS                                     /
e PROVINCE CAPITALS               RIVERS                                                                        ,
(A) NATIONAL CAPrTAL              PROVINCEBOUNDARIES-
-  -   INTERONAThNAL BOUNDARIES                        11*
P1ROVLNCES: WCN                                    _444 5 442 ,   --                                            . X
IWi ch-  lb.- H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                               4
- a,           12 SDNg. INpC ,342
31 H-.-,       33       N-
S.. W  35  T..~~~~~~~~~."    3                                                                      h,25R
* aan        44,044  375,AS,,4  31         24              XL,     5g       .                                                 -g =.
4  rCn 38 Ptah. 'T.44                                                                    3'
i6 Ba4264      42 42nh4224n     t        %4Y7(Ln           2X           S ;     /Il X  Wi3 LA                   ;       -0t 
18   Ph.n      45 BLA 2 nhF         ; 1i-              54   L   X5
, 22 N.,'    42 MMc~               PEnI;
4Q- h              T3 Nhk         D        2 '   p;   2 '
14 04 NgheA       42  y3hlnog       -0 -e -4  r~-4                        20...............  .l -  ,Rn  .......- >t         m     5     , 1d         8 
|22 RO4N,,3,    4,  Song .          *-;
1 12             7    .=, H:.  . 7  ;i. T-  ,-
I1       ,      42 24 R-; 3-         -                              6rp; 0                                     RO  .T  1S=    jR r-
2221214         52 B.                                                                                         1)     25      50      2       50.1
23 22-4 541       2 8.b I-
25 Ni58n,       344422422 G-,1 
0~~~~~~~~0 



