Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3594 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Teacher Development Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 02, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER  3594 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 02, 2002, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower expects to receive from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, through its Department for International Development (DFID), assistance in 
the financing of the Project in an aggregate principal amount of about seven million one hundred 
and ten thousand Pounds Sterling (£ 7,110,000) (the DFID Grant) to be provided to the Borrower 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Association as administrator of those grant funds received from DFID (the DFID Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
Page  3
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
“DFID Memorandum of Understanding” and “DFID MOU” mean the 
memorandum of understanding between DFID and the Association for the administration by the 
Association of the proceeds of the DFID Grant, as may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between DFID and the Association.
(c)
“District” means an administrative sub-division of a province.
(d)
“DOET” means the Department of Education and Training in a Project Province, 
responsible for the management of education within said Province, and any successor thereto; 
and “DOETs” means, collectively, all said Departments of the Project Provinces.
(e)
“Inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be 
established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(f)
“MOET” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Training, and any 
successor thereto.
(g)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within MOET with the 
responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(i)
“Project Provinces” means the provinces of the Borrower listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said Annex may be revised from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Association.
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
Page  4
currencies equivalent to fifteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and 
Page  5
December 15 commencing June 15, 2012 and ending December 15, 2041. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on December 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies 
the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years 
on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
         Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
Page  6
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
Page  7
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than October 31, 2003, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)  sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
and out of the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project (a Co-financing) including the DFID Grant, 
during the period covered by said report, and expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of the proceeds of 
any Co-financing, during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)  describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  8
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of any Co-financing, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section 5.01: 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant, 
or any other grant or loan, made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section 5.01 shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources, on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the DFID Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled;
(b)
the Inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee has been established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
core staff for the PCU have been selected and appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
the PCU has engaged the services of a procurement advisor under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association; 
(e)
the PCU has established an adequate project financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(f)
the Borrower has completed the preparation of an initial primary teacher profile 
which includes dimensions and levels of teacher knowledge, skills, competencies and attitudes.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower
:
State Bank of Vietnam
Page  10
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
VIETBANK 
412248
(84-4) 825 0612
Hanoi
NHTWVT
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
or 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Hanoi, 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
/s/
Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Andrew Steer
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in
SDR Equivalent)
% of Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1)  Goods (other than 
       learning materials)
7,500,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 90% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally
(2)  Learning Materials
1,900,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 90% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally
(3)  Training
4,800,000
65%
(4)  Unallocated
1,400,000
TOTAL
15,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  12
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 390,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 31, 2001.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, other than learning materials, 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) learning materials under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (c) training; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to establish a program of 
development of the primary education teaching force by formulating professional standards, 
training programs, related quality assurance mechanisms, and terms of service for primary 
education teachers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Teacher Professional Standards
1.
Development of a teacher professional profile, including: (a) definition of required 
competencies; (b) establishment of standards of preparation and performance for each stage of 
teacher professional development; and (c) formulation of guidelines on the application of such 
professional profile.
2.
Piloting of the application of the teacher professional profile in: (a) the evaluation of 
existing in-service and pre-service training programs for primary teachers; and (b) the 
classification of teaching trainees and teachers, and identification and prioritization of their 
development needs.
Part B
: Teacher and Education Manager Training
1.
Development of training programs for teachers, teacher trainers and education managers, 
including: (a) assessment of training needs; and (b) development, piloting, evaluation and 
Page  13
dissemination of training modules.
2.
Development of teacher training capacity in selected provinces, including: (a) 
strengthening of selected teacher training programs and institutions; and (b) establishment of 
teaching resources and materials development centers in selected District offices.
Part C
: Quality Assurance
1.
Development of an enhanced personnel management information system and 
dissemination of practices for consistent application and interpretation of a teacher professional 
profile. 
2.
Development and dissemination of standards and procedures for the classification of 
teachers.
3.
Development of accreditation policies, evaluation criteria and accreditation standards 
and procedures for teacher training institutions and programs.
4.
Development of procedures to analyze school programs, and to formulate and implement 
improvement strategies.
5.
Development of a communication strategy to inform stakeholders on the objectives and 
processes of the Project and on the strategy for education reform and development.
Part D
: Terms of Service
Formulation of terms of service for primary teachers conducive to the improvement of 
teaching performance and efficient deployment of teachers; and design of an implementation 
plan and communication strategy regarding said terms of service.
Part E
:
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to implement the Project, monitor and evaluate 
the impacts of the Project and related programs for teachers, and prepare a detailed plan for the 
expansion of the Borrower’s program for the development of primary teachers.
* * *
Page  14
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Provinces
Ben Tre Province
Binh Phuoc Province
Kontum Province
Ninh Binh Province
Phu Yen Province
Quang Binh Province
Son La Province
Vinh Phuc Province
Hai Phong City
Ho Chi Minh City
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and 
(b) the provisions of the following Parts B, C and D.
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods to be financed in whole or in part out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  15
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C below, goods, including learning materials, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)  Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Goods, other than learning materials, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,720,000 equivalent, and (b) learning 
materials estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,330,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
(a) Goods, other than learning materials, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $560,000 equivalent, and (b) learning 
materials estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $530,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures or, in the event that such goods or learning materials are 
ordinarily available at competitive prices from more than one source within the Borrower’s 
country, on the basis of national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Off-the-shelf standard items, including office equipment, computers and related 
equipment, and vehicles, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured from IAPSO or UNICEF in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Page  16
Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods other than learning materials or for learning 
materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement.
Project Management and Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project maintain, an inter-ministerial Project steering committee with representatives from, 
inter alia, the Borrower’s State Bank of Vietnam,
 
Ministry of Education and Training, Ministry 
of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Finance and Government Committee on Organization 
and Personnel, said committee to be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Project 
and ensuring its coordination with the Borrower’s economic and social development policy.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain within MOET, throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, the Project Coordination Unit under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank, managed and staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number, and with 
Page  17
adequate resources, to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2, the 
Borrower shall appoint to the PCU qualified specialists acceptable to the Association to lead 
implementation activities in each of the following areas, under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association: (i) development of teachers’ professional standards; (ii) design of teacher 
training programs; (iii) quality assurance; (iv) formulation of teachers’ terms of service; (v) 
administration and project management training; (vi) accounts and finance; and (vii) 
procurement.
3.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial management system within the 
PCU, acceptable to the Association, to ensure proper execution and monitoring of project 
implementation.  To that end, the Borrower shall, inter alia: (a) appoint or engage qualified 
financial management staff for the PCU; (b) establish a records management system and a chart 
of accounts; and (c) establish a computerized system to support the preparation of project 
financial statements and management reports and provide training to the PCU staff in the 
operation thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an implementation plan 
satisfactory to the Association; to that end:
(a)
the Borrower shall, by November 30 of each year furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments an annual work plan for the next succeeding calendar year, except for 
the first annual work plan which shall be furnished to the Association by no later than March 31, 
2002; each such plan shall be prepared under terms of reference acceptable to the Association 
and shall include, without limitation, the programs of training in the application of the teacher 
profile, of development and distribution of teacher training modules, of outreach and 
dissemination of information to stakeholders; and
(b)
thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out each such annual work plan taking into 
consideration the comments of the Association thereon.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than March 31, 2005, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a detailed action plan to expand the program for primary teachers development to 
Provinces other than the Project Provinces; and (b) thereafter, discuss and exchange views on 
such plan with the Association. 
Monitoring and Reporting
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  18
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, commencing with the 
second quarter in 2002, a quarterly report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 6, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the date of said report (or in 
the case of the last such report furnished for each calendar year, during the preceding four 
calendar quarters), and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(c)
review with the Association and DFID, by January 31 of each year, commencing 
in 2003, or such later date as the Association shall request, the annual report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 6, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  19
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  20
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
