                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000697




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (DFID-23861 IDA-35940)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 19.84 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                     FOR A

                 PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   April 22, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective xxx, 2007)

                  Currency Unit =Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                           US$ 1.00 = VND 16,025
                            VND10,000 = US$0.62

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 to June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA    Analytic & Advisory Activities          M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
ADB    Asian Development Bank                  MDGs      Millennium Development
                                                         Goals
APL    Adaptable Program Loan                  MoET      Ministry of Education and
                                                         Training
BoET   (District) Bureau of Education and      MoF       Ministry of Finance
       Training
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy             MoHA      Ministry of Home Affairs
DCA    Development Credit Agreement            MPI       Ministry of Planning and
                                                         Investment
DFID   (UK) Department for International       PAD       Project Appraisal Document
       Development
DoET   (Provincial) Department of              PCU       Project Coordination Unit
       Education and Training
DFA    District FSQL Analysis                  PDO       Project Development
                                                         Objective
EFA    Education for All                       PEDC      Primary Education for
                                                         Disadvantaged Children
EMIS   Education Management                    PDIS      Professional Development
       Information System                                Information System
FSQL   Fundamental School Quality              PMIS      Personnel Management
       Levels                                            Information System
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                  PPCU      Provincial Project
                                                         Coordination Unit
GNP    Gross National Product                  PTDP      Primary Teachers
                                                         Development Project
GoV    Government of Vietnam                   QA        Quality Assurance
HCMC   Ho Chi Minh City                        SBM       School Based Management
IBRD   International Bank for                  SEQAP     School Education Quality
       Reconstruction and Development                    Assurance Project
ICR    Implementation Completion               TTC       Teacher Training College
       Results
IDA    International Development               TTI       Teacher Training Institution
       Association
KPI    Key Performance Indicator               VTV       Vietnam Television

     Vice President: James W Adams
   Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
    Sector Manager: Christopher J Thomas
Project Team Leader: Thanh Thi Mai
  ICR Team Leader: Thanh Thi Mai

                                              VIETNAM
                         Primary Teacher Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................... 1
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 2
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................. 4
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................... 9
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 10
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 11
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 13
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    VN-PRIMARY
Country:                Vietnam               Project Name:         TEACHER
                                                                    DEVELOPMENT
Project ID:             P051838               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35940,TF-23861
ICR Date:               05/06/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 15.6M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 11.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education and Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/22/1999    Effectiveness:        08/29/2002        08/29/2002
Appraisal:             05/03/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/20/2001    Mid-term Review:                        11/29/2004
                                     Closing:              12/31/2005        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               3                7
Primary education                                              57               63
Tertiary education                                             40               30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                             Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                    James W. Adams
Country Director:         Ajay Chhibber                    Alain A. Barbu
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            James A. Stevens
Project Team Leader:      Thanh Thi Mai                    Thanh Thi Mai
ICR Team Leader:          Thanh Thi Mai
ICR Primary Author:



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to lay the foundation for a nationwide program to upgrade
the quality of the primary teaching force.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project PDOs were not formally revised during implementation but they were made
specific and operationalized by: (i) defining and measuring professional standards for
teachers; (ii) applying the standards to infer training needs; (iii) developing and




                                             ii

delivering corresponding training modules; (iv) providing incentives for teachers to
improve their performance.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
                The capacity to improve teacher performance by developing competency
Indicator 1 :   standards, providing high quality training and revising performance incentive is
                developed within MOET, provinces, TTIs and schools
                                                                              Teacher standards
                                                                              promulgated by
                                                                              MOET; training
                                          Teacher standards,                  curricula and
                                          new pre-service                     modules developed
                Regular objective         and in-service                      by MOET &
                assessement does not take training programs,                  delivered to TTIs
Value           place, instead there is a accreditation                       and teachers in
quantitative or selective norm-referenced framework and                       project provinces;
Qualitative)    review that does not      teacher titles                      accreditation
                stress professional       linked to                           framework adopted
                competences and skills.   remuneration have                   by MOET; &
                                          been fully                          teacher titles &
                                          developed                           corresponding
                                                                              salary bands
                                                                              promulgated by
                                                                              MOHA
Date achieved 08/29/2003                  06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The project had surpassed the original targets by achieving institutionalization of

achievement)    key policy measures in teacher management and professional development

Indicator 2 :   Government demonstrates a readiness to implement an expanded and improved
                program of teacher training

                Professional development  Expansion of                        All teacher training
Value           of serving teachers is    project                             modules have been
quantitative or provided only on an ad-   interventions has                   formally approved
Qualitative)    hoc basis, uncoordinated  been discussed                      for nation-wide
                or is left to provinces   with the
                                          government                          introduction

Date achieved 08/29/2003                  06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        MOET has teacher professional development, taking the results of this project,

achievement)   as one of the main focus of the forthcoming School Quality Assurance Program




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   A teacher professional profile is drafted, tested, revised and agreed with key
                stakeholders by the end of the project
                                            Teacher                             The teacher

Value           A preliminary draft of the professional                         professional

(quantitative   teachers professional       standards have                      standards have been

or Qualitative) profile was prepared and been adopted and                       formally
                submitted at negotiations. promulgated by                       promulgated by
                                            MOET                                MOET
Date achieved 08/29/2003                    06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% fulfilment
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   New teacher training modules and associated materials are developed and
                approved by MoET
                                            The project has                     30 modules
Value           No modules were             developed 24                        developed and
(quantitative   available at the start of   modules and                         delivered to more
or Qualitative) the project.                trained about                       than 40,000
                                            25,000 teachers                     primary teachers
Date achieved 08/29/2003                    06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        130% fulfilment
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   An accreditation framework is drafted, tested, revised and agreed with major
                stakeholders
                                            A standards- based
                                            approach for the                    The teacher training
                                            accreditaton of                     program

Value           Prior to this project, thereTeacher Training                    accreditation

(quantitative   was no formal               Colleges                            standards and

or Qualitative) accreditation framework.    Preservice                          procedures have
                                            Program and                         been approved and
                                            upgrading to this                   promulgated by
                                            level has been                      MOET
                                            developed
Date achieved 08/29/2003                    06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% fulfilment
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Options for revision of teacher terms of service are identified, agreed with key
                stakeholders and revised and regulations are drafted
Value           Prior to the project,       Regulations for                     New teacher titles
(quantitative   teachers were classified    terms of service                    and corresponding



                                                 iv

or Qualitative) on the basis of a         have been revised           salary scales
                subjective norm-          in draft form               approved and
                referenced review that did                            promulgated by
                not emphasize skills and                              Ministry of Home
                competencies.                                         Affairs
Date achieved 08/29/2003                  06/30/2007                  06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% fulfilment.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP          Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     04/01/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                0.00
  2     11/19/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                0.00
  3     01/19/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1.00
  4     07/28/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1.08
  5     02/15/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1.14
  6     08/06/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                2.03
  7     02/18/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                2.78
  8     12/27/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                7.34
  9     05/15/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                8.95
  10    06/21/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory               14.14



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At a country level, the current project preparation occurred at the cusp of rapid economic and
social change in Vietnam, in line with the transition from a centrally planned economy to a
market economy. The economy had stabilized through the 1990s following an earlier period of
successive economic crises brought on by factors internal to Vietnam as well as changed external
circumstances associated with a decline in support from communist countries in Eastern Europe.
Economic changes were reinforced by the doi moi reforms initiated in 1986 and Government was
committed to providing a high quality basic education for all children, the major goal of its 2010
Education Strategy, so as to improve their abilities to participate in Vietnam's changing economy
and society. Government also recognized the need for poverty reduction, discussed explicitly in
its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of April 2001, and for universalizing primary
education as set out in the Education Law of 1999.

Within the education sector, following substantial progress on expanding access to primary
schooling in line with the Government's development strategy in the late 1990s, concern shifted
to large disparities in quality of provision, manifested in very significant differences in
achievement and other key performance indicators (KPIs) between pupils in urban areas and
those in remote, mountainous locations. The shift in focus from access to quality was also
rendered feasible by a projected decline in the school-age population in the decade 2001 to 2010.
The Education Law, in recognizing the duty of the state to guarantee equity in education,
acknowledged the need for priority in provision for ethnic minority children and disadvantaged
groups (Article 9), and the rights of pupils to equal treatment (Article 75). Strategic interventions
were required, for example, to assist ethnic minorities (11% of the population) for whom
enrollment and performance were lower than for the majority Kinh population, to face the
multiple challenges of poverty, remoteness and language.

A significant basic education reform was the phased introduction from 2002 to 2006 of a new
primary school curriculum characterized by new teaching methods, activity-based learning,
increased teaching hours, and relevant applications of pupils' knowledge and understanding to the
rapid changes in the economy and the society. Effective implementation of this new curriculum
depended on teachers having greater in-depth knowledge of curriculum content and how children
learn in different contexts, an enhanced repertoire of pedagogical skills, and a commitment to on-
going professional development. These requirements presented a significant challenge since, at
the time, approximately 20% of teachers had qualifications below the designated minimum at that
time ("12+2"), didactic methods of teaching were well entrenched, and low salaries (1.7 times
GDP per capita at the time, compared with a norm of 2.4 in Asian countries) and poor working
conditions provided little incentive for reform.

Against this background, the present project was designed to enhance the skills and work habits
of primary school teachers and principals, along with the provision of more teaching and learning
resources and their better management. These were also factors associated with higher
achievement, as demonstrated by research at the Grade 5 level in Vietnam. While the project was
set in a sample of 10 of (then) 61 provinces, it included provision for capacity building within
teacher training institutions and enhanced management at provincial, district, and school levels.
By introducing professional standards for teachers and quality assurance strategies for training
programs, the project sought to address teacher quality system-wide. In addition, at the time of
design, the Government was looking at ways to improve the effectiveness of the civil service.
This project offered an opportunity to model changes in conditions of service for primary teachers



                                                  1

by developing and validating professional standards, assessing performance against the standards,
and linking improvements to teacher rewards. If this model of change worked for primary
teachers, then it would have implications for the civil service generally.

The project focus, in addition to aligning with Government priorities for education reform, was
consistent with education elements within the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and DFID's
Country Strategy Paper to provide high quality basic education for all children and so to improve
their ability to contribute to Vietnam's changing economy and society. The Bank's support for
primary teacher development was also logical when set in the context of a number of other,
concurrent development projects in basic education in Vietnam where the Bank provided
leadership and a framework for donor collaboration in addressing critical determinants of learning
in primary schools. Further rationale for Bank involvement came from the Bank's knowledge of,
and experience and leadership in, basic education in countries at similar stages of development
around the world. The AAA studies and other research supported by the Bank, as well as its
leadership in studies monitoring student achievement at a national level, further reinforced the
rationale for assistance in the present project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The objective of the project was to lay the foundation for a nationwide program to upgrade the
quality of the primary teaching force, thus enabling the Government to build a high quality,
efficient, professional teaching service, capable of teaching the new curriculum and implementing
emerging requirements in primary education.

As listed in the PAD, the key performance indicators were as follows.
· A new set of professional standards for primary teachers, expressed as a professional profile,
    should be drafted, tested, revised and agreed with key stakeholders.
· Training modules should be developed, trialled, approved by MoET, and in use.
· Guidelines for teacher training program accreditation should be drafted, tested, revised and
    agreed with key stakeholders.
· Guidelines for teacher classification should be drafted, revised and agreed with key
    stakeholders.
· Options for revised terms of service and remuneration should be identified, agreed with key
    stakeholders and drafted into regulation.
· Government should demonstrate a readiness to expand the Primary Teacher Development
    Project to other provinces and will have developed a credible plan for program expansion.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The project was implemented as designed with no formal revision of the PDO or indicators.
However, the PDO as expressed in general terms under 1.2 was made operational by defining and
measuring professional standards for teachers, applying the standards to infer training needs,
developing and delivering corresponding training modules, and providing incentives for teachers
to improve their performance.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group for the intervention comprised primary school teachers, principals and
vice-principals of primary schools, education managers at provincial (DoET) and district (BoET)
levels, managers, lecturers and final year students in teacher training colleges in 10 pilot



                                                  2

provinces selected from 61 nationally at the time of design. With system-wide application where
feasible during the project, and with a Government commitment to national implementation post-
project, primary teachers, principals and teacher trainers in all other provinces make up a
subsidiary target group for the reform.

To the extent that the project provided improved training, better understanding and enhanced
professional skills for the target group, their students were the ultimate beneficiaries through
enhanced learning and achievement. The reforms envisaged by the design were highly significant.
Enhanced professional standards for teachers, opportunities for further training, and better
personnel management were intended to focus attention on students' individual learning needs
and to provide an objective basis of performance appraisal for teachers. By linking performance
appraisal to incentives for teachers, the design was intended to shift the emphasis from rewarding
teacher seniority and teachers with the highest performing students to rewarding those teachers
whose improved skills and behaviors added value to student outcomes, regardless of their
baseline achievement.

As part of their quality assurance strategies, education systems need to ensure that teachers have
adequate subject-matter knowledge and a repertoire of pedagogical skills based on evidence and
standards sufficient to meet the development and learning needs of all students. Emphasizing the
success of all students as the ultimate beneficiaries of improvements in teacher quality focuses on
equity as well as quality in enhancing workforce skills to the economic benefit of the society.
Both econometric models (using an education production function) and education models (using
multi-level modelling) researching the impact of teachers on student achievement conclude that
teachers make a very significant difference to learning outcomes. The challenge is to identify
what contributes to teacher quality and to implement teacher management policies to maximise
student outcomes from our investment in teachers. These arguments are expanded in Annex 3.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised five components:

Component A. Development of Teacher Professional Standards. (US$1.01 million estimated
base cost of which US$0.65 million was spent)

          Disbursed              World Bank              Government                 DFID
             652,325                   58,812                  40,604                552,909

This component was intended to provide a new vision for professional teachers by adding
performance appraisal, in terms of well-defined standards for teacher knowledge and actions, to
formal graduate qualifications. The Teacher Professional Standards (or the so-called Teacher
Profile) were intended to comprise different domains (e.g., Professional ethics, commitment and
leadership; subject matter and curricular knowledge; and teaching methods), each with several
levels of developing competence. The Teacher Professional Standards had to be designed as an
objective, evidence-based strategy to chart professional growth during a teacher's career. When
developed, this so-called Teacher Profile would provide an objective basis for identifying in-
service training needs, monitoring the effectiveness of both pre-service and in-service training,
and making decisions on a teacher's career progression.

Component B. Training Programs for Teachers and Education Managers. (US$26.15
million estimated base cost of which US$25.95 million was spent)

          Disbursed              World Bank              Government                 DFID
          25,949,698               16,241,360              4,348,147               5,360,191




                                                   3

This component was designed to improve pre-service and in-service training programs through
the development of strategic training modules. The modules were to comprise both print
materials and video clips with self-study options complementing face-to-face delivery. The
modules were to cover Ministry requirements to update teachers on new developments (e.g., the
introduction of the new primary school curriculum; the introduction of information technology)
as well as allowing teachers initially trained at lower levels to upgrade their qualifications. In the
design, the modules were required to provide for multiple modes of delivery (including on-
campus programs, school-based programs, and distance learning), to cater to the needs of teachers
in remote locations or with restricted physical access.

Component C. Quality Assurance. (US$3.68 million estimated base cost of which US$1.90
million was spent)

          Disbursed              World Bank              Government                 DFID
            1,889,998                 785,452                386,195                 718,350

Component C was intended to develop a shared understand of, and commitment to, quality
assurance (QA) among managers and educators over the work of all other components. A
comprehensive framework for QA was expected with standards-based criteria and evidence to
support achievement of the standards. In addition to working with other Component teams to
ensure quality in all project outputs, the Component C team was asked to develop an effective
personnel management information system to record and analyze teachers' professional standards
and their participation in professional development; link work on professional standards under
Component A with the system of classification of teachers (titles) developed under Component
D; develop a framework of accreditation for formal teacher preparation courses and a mechanism
to apply it through self and external evaluation; and develop and implement a communications
strategy for the project to ensure its achievements gained credibility and currency in the
profession and publicly.


Component D. Revision in the Terms of Service for Teachers. (US$0.50 million estimated
base cost of which US$0.41 million was spent)

          Disbursed              World Bank              Government                 DFID
              412,744                  15,754                   8,799                388,191

This component team was expected to carry out systematic survey research combined with
extensive consultation with authorities, teachers and other stakeholders to develop a classification
scheme for primary teachers under three titles ­ Regular Teacher; Senior Teacher; and Lead
Teacher. Forms of teacher compensation were to be investigated and changes proposed to
motivate teachers to engage in continuing professional development and to demonstrate enhanced
performance. Through a study of teachers' workloads under different contexts, supplemented by
wide consultation, the Component was expected to provide an evidenced-based rationale for
changes in norms for teacher deployment. Similarly, a research study was to be conducted on
options to give greater autonomy to schools and their principals. The report was to identify both
rights and obligations of principals under a more devolved system of school-based management.

Component E. Project Coordination, Capacity Strengthening and Monitoring. (US$4.41
million estimated base cost of which US$3.26 million was spent)

          Disbursed              World Bank              Government                 DFID
            3,259,359                 227,238                554,775               2,477,346

Although asked to manage project implementation (coordination, timely implementation,
procurement, disbursement, financial management, and reporting), Component E team was also



                                                   4

asked to develop the capacity of central, provincial, district and school managers to support
pedagogical reforms and to improve teaching and learning. Through systematic data collection
and the use of standards-based evidence for decision making, the Component was expected not
only to monitor and evaluate project progress, but to assess its impact on system-level reform.
Through effective communication and involvement of authorities and stakeholders in project
activities, the project was expected to publicize project achievements, extend the boundaries of
influence and link project reforms to concurrent and future projects, and where possible to
institutionalize significant outcomes within the Government's reform agenda for education.

1.6 Revised Components

The structure of the project was not formally changed although, in terms of efficiency and
distribution of workloads across components, project management did reassign responsibility for
some tasks across component teams. Some minor modifications to component activities occurred
with the agreement of Government authorities and review missions. For example, when the
proposal for overseas Masters training for 56 persons was not feasible, short structured overseas
training for 343 participants was substituted.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project was extended by 18 months from December 2005 to June 2007.                      When the
development of training materials, by far the largest and most complex sub-component to manage,
was delayed, the delivery of training, contingent upon availability of materials, had to be
rescheduled. This potential problem had been identified at the time of the mid-term review in
December 2004, but the decision to extend the period was postponed until late in 2005 when it
was evident that the best efforts of the project would not achieve timely completion. From a
project management perspective, the 18 month extension granted was less than ideal, but proved
to be a strong incentive for rescheduled completion of outstanding activities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

At the time of project preparation, the limitations of the teaching force in primary schools stood
out as a barrier to improving the quality of basic education. Teachers' standards were defined in
terms of their years of academic study and then teacher training so that teachers were labeled as
5+3, 9+3, 12+2, 12+3 and so on. At the time, 12+2 was defined as the minimum standard with
the two years of pre-service training provided in teacher training schools following 12 years of
academic schooling. Even then, some 20% of teachers were described as "below standard" and it
was generally accepted that schools in remote and mountainous regions, with high ethnic
minority populations, could not be staffed with appropriately qualified teachers.

In addition, even in economically advantaged urban areas, teachers worked for very limited hours
for relatively low pay. In some locations, restricted physical facilities resulted in double (or even
triple) shifts thus also limiting hours of schooling. Parents who wished their children to have
access to the full curriculum could pay fees enabling teachers to be hired for afternoon sessions to
teach additional hours in the basic skills, or to teach specialist subjects such as music, art and
physical education. The curriculum was highly prescribed and academically challenging with a
strong emphasis on theory, conveyed through teacher homilies and absorbed by rote learning.
However, this state of affairs was questioned by visionary educators advocating a new curriculum
with active student learning and by economists in the national oversight agencies who perceived
the need for entrepreneurial skills in school graduates required for transformed workplaces
adjusting from a planned to a market economy. In short, the time was ripe for reform in basic



                                                    5

education and, along with a new curriculum, a better qualified teaching force was essential to the
reform agenda.

In a broader context, this was also a time when the international literature on teacher standards
was emphasizing what teachers know and can do, rather than how long they had studied1. With
projections for a relatively stable or even declining primary school-age population, it was feasible
to embark on a project to upgrade teachers' skills, to expect them to work longer hours at least in
line with other countries in the region, and to provide incentives through additional compensation
and a more stimulating environment, both in terms of instructional materials and teaching
methods. Under lessons learned from previous projects, the PAD identified the need for
sequencing and linking of reforms (curriculum and textbooks; followed by teacher training
reforms; followed by changes in teachers' conditions of service, linked to their qualifications and
performance) to be reflected in the design. These logical contingencies in the design proved to be
highly influential for project impact.

Lack of objective and detailed school-level information on the schooling system was a major
constraint for project preparation. Statistical information collected manually at a school level was
reported to district bureaus (BoETs), aggregated and reported to provincial departments (DoETs),
and further aggregated for reporting to the central Ministry (MoET). As part of project
preparation, a series of preliminary studies was undertaken, including a national census of schools
and their teachers thus allowing analysis using the school as the unit. Other preparatory studies
focused on teacher pre-service and in-service training, and the decision of Government to move
towards College level pre-service training as a minimum standard for entry to the profession.

With documented evidence of the situation in primary schools, including their satellite campuses,
extensive discussions and workshops involving all relevant Government ministries and other
stakeholders were held. The project design that emerged emphasized professional standards for
primary teachers (Component A), identified the need for training modules to be developed to
cover skill gaps in pre-service and in-service training (Component B), and included a Component
(D) relating to teacher deployment, conditions of service, and compensation. Component C on
quality assurance was added as a strategy, not only to emphasize quality as in the accreditation of
training programs, but to interrelate the other components. It was recognized that the proposed
reforms were far-reaching, with implications for defining standards in other professions and
having ramifications for conditions of service within the whole civil service. Hence initial
planning considered a phased approach with the project initially located in just 10 of (then) 61
provinces, with a possible APL as a way of moving towards nation-wide implementation. As
described in the PAD, Government decided to request assistance only for what was the
foundation phase of the proposed APL, and to keep options open for subsequent external
financing.

Although the design was relatively simple in terms of number of components and the logical
relationship among them, it was challenging for other reasons. Some of the fundamental concepts
underpinning the design (notably, evidence-based professional standards and quality assurance)
were new concepts in Vietnam that implied a different approach to defining quality. The focus



1 For example: National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. What. What Teachers Should Know
And Be Able To Do. (1999). NBPTS.




                                                   6

on primary teachers, although a logical starting point for basic education reform, implied that
subsequent provision would need to be made for teachers at other levels. Similarly, the focus on
conditions of service and salaries of teachers carried implications for other ministries and for
regulation of the civil service. MoET was itself a large bureaucracy with many departments
having a stake in teacher pre-service and in-service training, teacher certification, supply and
demand, teacher deployment and mobility, teacher remuneration, and performance appraisal.
There was also a need to coordinate with other Bank-financed projects (the on-going Primary
Education project and the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children (PEDC) project, under
preparation) as well as other donor-assisted projects involving primary and secondary schooling.
Risks identified as substantial in the PAD were:
· the emphasis on local delivery of professional development might not be widely accepted by
    a centralized and hierarchical bureaucracy;
· changes in the terms of service for primary teachers might conflict with the interests of other
    stakeholders and the priorities of other ministries; and
· insufficient capacity in financial management.

In terms of lessons learned, two actions taken during preparation were significant for project
design. First, project preparation was a protracted process and involved extensive consultations
with key GoV agencies and ministries, including the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI),
the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA), to secure support for
the proposed directions. Second, the Steering Committee set up to oversee the project had wide
representation of GoV ministries and agencies as a means of securing ownership for the reforms.
A third set of actions was crucial in gaining acceptance of the reform agenda. Throughout the life
of the project, including for each review mission, the project director was diligent in securing
participation by representatives of relevant GoV ministries and MoET departments.

2.2 Implementation

Generally, implementation proceeded smoothly, although initially frustrations were evident in
getting activities underway. In contrast, the last few months of the project saw of flurry of
activities with significant demands placed on stakeholders to meet deadlines with some inevitable
compromise in quality of activities. Although this pattern of disbursement was fairly typical for
Vietnam, a more orderly disbursement would have been preferred. However, there were good
reasons for initial delays stemming from decisions to extend the project charter in two crucial
ways, as described below. This extension of activities exacerbated delays but led to far more
effective system-wide adoption of project reforms. Of the four components, Component B was
particularly complex logistically. The project coordination unit (PCU) was most effectively
managed and difficulties under Component B were addressed by dividing the team into two and
bringing in an additional manager so module development and training delivery were handled by
separate teams. At least in the early stages, timely implementation was a major challenge since
large equipment packages required complex technical specifications. When procurement
procedures located the most reputable institutions to undertake module development, these
institutions often failed to meet prescribed deadlines for product delivery because of the many
other demands on their time. A strategy that solved this problem was contracting a wide range of
agencies from all over the country to produce modules. However, this strategy only worked
because the PCU provided extensive training for writers and ran hands-on workshops on using
video and other support materials in addition to print. The selection of a wide range of agencies
for module development proved a bonus for regional capacity building.

Timely production of modules remained an issue and eventually led to a project extension, since
training delivery was contingent upon module completion. Were there other factors in
implementation delays that might have been anticipated at the time of design? Two factors stand



                                                  7

out. The design called for the development of a set of 24 training modules and allowed time for a
needs analysis to identify topics and an overall content framework. The project decided to go
much further than this in two ways.
1. Through collaboration with MoET and with the support of stakeholders, the project opted to
    design new teacher training curricula for the College level (12+3), the University level (12+4),
    and for Upgrading to College level for teachers with lower qualifications. This process
    required extensive consultation and a significant delay, but it resulted in formal approvals
    (Decision 17/2004; Decision 39/2006; and Decision 4578/2004 respectively) for revised
    teacher training curricula. When modules were then developed to match these curricula, they
    had immediate validity that gave the modules a system-wide application and formal
    recognition.
2. With the introduction of the new primary curriculum, the project decided to develop
    additional modules based on the phased introduction of the new curriculum from Grade 1
    (2002-2003) to Grade 5 (2006-2007), as well generic modules on new teaching methods and
    on managing the curriculum introduction. This decision further delayed implementation but
    gave the project output immediate national relevance.

It took some time to get Provincial PCUs in place and even longer to orient them to a new style of
management where they had to take responsibility for local implementation. The PCU achieved
this by running workshops, providing a clear project-wide framework, and then delegating to
PPCUs decisions on module selection (some school-based modules were designated as optional),
scheduling of training, selection and orientation of key teachers, etc.

Project management made effective use of technical assistance by ensuring that component teams
retained full responsibility for project outputs and that the role of consultants was to facilitate
development, provide technical support, and build capacity in the process. In contrast to some
other projects of this kind, the ownership of the reforms and accountability for outcomes by the
PCU and their partners was a major strength of the PTDP.

2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design adequately identified an appropriate set of indicators to allow progress to be
monitored and achievements at the end of the project to be documented and evaluated, against the
PDO. During biannual review/supervision missions, the PCU routinely reported against these
indicators in both quantitative and qualitative terms, with a tabulated summary for each
component. Nevertheless, the PAD drafted in 2001 located KPIs and M&E strategies within a
detailed 6-page log-frame. To simplify reporting, a simplified Results Framework was drafted in
November 2005.

M&E implementation was also carried out in a very systematic way. Perhaps because the PTDP
had an explicit component on QA (Component C), very good electronic databases were
maintained of participants and outputs. These quantitative data were supplemented by qualitative
evaluations of activities and their impact through open-ended questions in surveys, through a
classroom observation study, and through feedback in consultative workshops.

The PDO focuses on policy reforms that include (a) performance appraisal of teachers in an
objective way and on criteria demonstrated by research to be related to student outcomes; and (b)
changes in conditions of service for teachers in line with increased professionalism, enhanced
efficiency, and higher quality. Although related KPIs were based on process measures, the
project was evaluated on the extent to which the policy outcomes were institutionalized within the
Ministry and the civil service.

Utilization of M&E feedback was frequently used to inform management decision making at
central and provincial levels, plan for enhanced application system-wide of project outputs, or


                                                  8

plan alternative strategies when intermediate objectives were not met. For example, when
module production fell behind schedule, additional tenders were sought and some management
responsibilities were re-assigned within the PCU. Maintenance of good records of project
achievements along with regular evaluative workshops at regional and national levels facilitated
the production of Implementation Completion Reports by the PCU and the 10 PPCUs under a
common framework at the end of the project.

Finally, while the project KPIs did not specifically include measurement of student learning
achievement but this high level outcome had also been assessed in the project. Before the project
became effective, a baseline study of grade 5 student achievement in mathematics and
Vietnamese Reading was done in 2001 with 72000 students and this data was representative at
provincial level, including 10 project provinces. In May 2007, PTDP financed the design and
administration of a second study with 60000 students, with test items anchored such that
comparisons can be made between the two studies.

2.5 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The PAD discussed in particular a number of social issues (including gender, ethnic minorities,
variations in access and quality, and the demands on poor parents through the introduction of
some user charges (so-called socialization). The PAD also addressed the relevance of education
(or the national curriculum) for children from different communities and concerns for
environmental issues. The argument was advanced that improvement in basic education, a
consequence of addressing teacher standards, would lead to enhanced opportunities for children
to lead productive lives and to participate meaningfully in the economy, the society and further
education. It was argued that girls in particular would benefit from such improvements in
teaching and learning.

Under Component B of the project, teacher training modules were developed on Vietnamese
Language Strengthening for Ethnic Minority Children, Teaching Students with Disabilities, and
Multigrade Teaching. Although these actions are not safeguard measures as normally understood,
they do serve to address education outcomes for disadvantaged groups.

At the central level, adequate financial management arrangements and corresponding software
were in place to control, record and monitor the flow of funds to cover project transactions. At
the provincial level where capacity was limited, hardware, software and training were provided to
achieve satisfactory financial management. No problems were encountered in reconciling project
expenditures with the Bank's records. In addition, project accounts were audited annually by the
Government auditor and, at project completion, an external audit was commissioned through
Ernst and Young.

2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Although the project was designed to operate in only 10 of the nation's 64 provinces, a number of
decisions of project management ensured the project had a system-wide impact. As described in
section 2.2, instead of simply developing a key set of 24 training modules as specified in the
design, the project first undertook a revision of teacher training curricula and secured formal
approval for them, thus ensuring that the modules subsequently developed would have national
currency. Similarly, by developing additional training modules to cater to the requirements of
introducing the new primary school curriculum, the project acquired immediate relevance across
the country. MoET funded additional printing costs to allow a roll-out of the relevant modules in
all provinces, including a module on training of managers to implement the reform agenda in
relation to primary schooling and professional standards for teachers. The production of 154 TV
programs based on a selection of the project's training modules and the broadcast of 50 of these
to date also ensured wide applicability of project outputs. Other project outputs that attained



                                                   9

formal legal status to be applied system wide, or that were prepared for promulgation by MoET,
included the professional standards for primary teachers, the accreditation of pre-service training
programs for teachers, the classification of primary teachers under three titles and the approval
for corresponding enhanced salary scales, and revisions in the norms for staffing schools under
different situations.

The products developed by the project including the 32 modules with corresponding print and
video materials and the Professional Development Information System (PDIS), along with their
copyright, were handed over to relevant MoET departments for further use or enhanced
application. A complete archive of project materials and reports on their development,
evaluation and use was compiled so that the research and development that underpinned project
activities would not be lost.

Finally, well before project completion, the Government and the Bank undertook identification of
a new project that would promote a seamless transition for some project activities into
mainstream practice and further development of other PTDP activities where additional work was
required. The School Education Quality Assurance Project (SEQAP) is currently under
preparation with a focus on support to improved teacher quality and support to full day schooling.
Lessons learned from the PTDP will inform the design of the SEQAP. It is feasible that a
medium-term impact evaluation of the PTDP on teacher development nationally might be
conducted in conjunction with a mid-term review of SEQAP, since by that time it should be
possible to document the take-up and further development of key PTDP outputs such as the
primary teacher professional profile, modules for pre-service and in-service training, accreditation
of training courses, teachers' titles, and their conditions of service.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Over the past decade or more, countries in the region have strategically focused on their
Education for All (EFA) plans and their Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Accordingly,
they have emphasised access to basic education and the provision of inputs designed to improve
structural dimensions of education systems ­ sufficient classrooms, fewer schools operating on
two (or more) shifts, longer time for instruction, trained teachers, reduced class sizes, flexible
delivery, additional textbooks and other teaching/learning resources, and mobilizing extra
resources from communities, the private sector and local government. Although on-going
challenges remain for structural improvements and are being addressed in Vietnam through other
projects and programs, there is now a strong reform agenda for increasing quality, with better
student outcomes from schooling, and notably improved student achievement. The PTDP
anticipated this focus on increasing quality and hence appropriately set its objective to lay the
foundation for upgrading the quality of the primary teaching force. The objective encompassed
not only improved knowledge and skills, but a change in attitude for teachers that required a
commitment to on-going professional development and performance appraisal.

Careful analysis of process variables related to student outcomes demonstrates the importance of
school improvement and teacher performance. For teachers, adequate qualifications (initial
training) are necessary but not sufficient to ensure effective teaching. With an international focus
on professional standards for teachers, the outcomes of the PTDP are at the forefront of
contemporary thinking on achieving quality from primary schooling. In a recent argument for
higher teacher quality, Ingvarson and Rowe (2007) claimed that systems need to ensure that
"teachers are equipped with subject-matter knowledge and an evidence- and standards-based
repertoire of pedagogical skills that are demonstrably effective in meeting the development needs




                                                   10

of all students" (p. 2)2. As noted under 1.4 and elaborated in Annex 3, teacher quality defined in
this way is directly related to improvements in student outcomes (achievement and retention) and
hence ultimately to a more productive and inclusive workforce, with economic benefits to the
country. With the PTDP provided a strong foundation through its outputs, including attitude
change for teachers, the challenge now for MoET is to extend that foundation achieved in the
target provinces to country-wide implementation. This emphasis on teacher quality also fits well
with current Bank priorities as demonstrated by its sponsorship of a July 2007 regional workshop
on teacher standards in Beijing.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

As stated in 1.2, the objective of the project was to lay the foundation for a nationwide program to
upgrade the quality of the primary teaching force, thus enabling the Government to build a high
quality, efficient, professional teaching service, capable of teaching the new curriculum and
implementing emerging requirements in primary education.

Overall Rating: Highly Satisfactory

All of the project's major development objectives were achieved, many with evidence of high
quality, and with satisfactory efficiency. For some components, quantitative targets were
exceeded and in other cases original intervention strategies were replaced with more appropriate
ones (e.g., overseas Masters training was replaced with short-term training for larger numbers).
Qualitative evaluation data from workshops, field observations during review/supervision
missions, and systematic surveys indicated a very positive influence on stakeholders. Most
importantly, the overall rating takes account of the extensive influence of the project beyond its
target provinces and the striking acceptance of its outputs and products across the system. Annex
2 provides a tabular summary of outputs by component against expectations and provides
additional, explanatory commentary where required.

Although more difficult to quantify than measurable products, it is the attitude and commitment
of teachers and managers to the reforms that warrants special mention. This change in teachers'
and managers' attitudes was observed during classroom visits and consistently reported in
stakeholder workshops as well as in the beneficiary survey. Whereas previously the commitment
and professional attitude of local officials and teachers was expressed in terms of following all
the directives and regulations of MoET to the best extent possible, through the development of
professional standards, the project was able to portray a clear picture of what teachers needed to
know and be able to do. Recognition that professional status could be defined in terms of the
professional "profile" and growth could be documented through evidence motivated teachers
towards self improvement. Providing opportunities for in-service training using module materials
including print and videos and designating necessary self study times gave teachers a structured
approach for professional development. Finally, linking that professional development and
demonstrated growth to career enhancement via the three titles ­ Regular Teacher; Senior
Teacher; and Lead Teacher - linked to a new salary scale provided a tangible incentive for
teachers to improve their knowledge, skills and attitudes. The qualitative evidence collected and




2See Ingvarson, L. & Rowe, K. (2007). "Conceptualising and Evaluating Teacher Quality: Substantive and
Methodological Issues". Paper presented at the Economics of Teacher Quality Conference, Australian
National University, 5 February 2007.




                                                  11

triangulated from different sources suggested the strategy was certainly working. Teachers
involved in the project were now committing to professional improvement and acknowledging
that they themselves had control of this process, rather than responding to top-down directives.

Four research studies conducted at the end of the project documented not only positive opinions
of various stakeholders about changes in teacher behavior following training using the in-service
modules, but also observed changes in classroom practice (see 3.6 for details).

Component A: Highly Satisfactory

The project successfully developed a set of Professional Standards for Primary Teachers that are
widely welcomed by the profession, acknowledged by the public, and officially adopted by
Ministry. The Primary Teacher Professional Standards were developed to appraise teacher
performance on 3 strands ­ professional ethics, commitment and leadership; subject matter and
curricular knowledge; and teaching methods ­ with four levels of developing competence within
each. Working with international consultants, the Component A team progressively developed
the Teacher Professional Standards through 5 versions. The concept of professional standards
was derived from the most recent developments worldwide with an emphasis on evidence-based
standards to describe what a teacher knows and can do, as distinct from qualifications awarded
after programs of academic study. Following a trial with 2,200 teachers and subsequent revision,
a large-scale pilot with 25,000 teachers (or about 40% of teachers in the 10 target provinces) led
to the final version. The developmental work was of a high standard and item response theory
was used to locate 64 pieces of evidence from 14 (later 15) requirements into hierarchical scales
under each strand. This large scale pilot required 100 trainers to train 1,000 assessors (100 per
province) so that each assessor provided the external appraisal for about 25 teachers. Teachers
appreciated that judgments were made on evidence relative to defined standards, and not just on
subjective ratings, or comparisons with other teachers. Figure 1 shows the distribution of scores
on the three strands of the Professional Standards for the 25,000 teachers who participated in the
large-scale pilot. It is evident that teachers performed well on the measure of professional
commitment, and fairly well on knowledge and teaching skills. However, reaching the highest
level of the knowledge strand remained challenging for significant numbers of teachers. These
are baseline data and do not indicate changes in teacher behavior during the project. They do
provide an objective basis on which to evaluate changes in teacher performance into the future.


                  60

                  50                                                                     Below 1
                  40                                                                     Level 1 - low
   % of teachers 30                                                                      Level 2 - moderate

                  20                                                                     Level 3 - high

                  10                                                                     Level 4 - very high

                   0
                         Commitment           Knowledge         Teaching skills

                                             Profile strand


Figure 1. Percentage of 25,000 teachers falling into each of five levels on the three strands of the Primary
Teacher Profile

In addition to the system-wide promulgation, work on the professional standards has now given
rise to the following standards-based initiatives:
· a School Charter has been developed within the Department of Primary Education setting
    down performance standards expected of primary schools;


                                                     12

· the instrument used in regular appraisal of teachers within their schools has been modified to
     conform to professional standards;
· an evaluation form used to review teachers' lesson plans has been modified to bring it into
     line with the standards used for this behavior within the professional standards;
· the long tradition in Vietnam of designating teachers as excellent teachers at school, district,
     provincial and national levels will now use criteria based on the professional standards; and
· the instrument used by pre-service trainees at TTIs to engage in self-appraisal of their
     performance has been modified to reflect the professional standards.

Component B: Satisfactory

Under Component B, the project developed 32 training modules and delivered more than 275,000
person-modules of in-service training to teachers and education managers. Component B was
by far the most expensive and most complex logistically of all the project components. It
encompassed two major sub-components: the development of training modules and the delivery
of pre-service and in-service training using the modules under different modes of delivery. As
already described under section 2.2, the project went well beyond its development objectives
firstly by designing new teacher training curricula before deciding on what modules to develop.
Following extensive consultation and collaboration with key MoET departments, formal
approvals were obtained for new curricula for the College level (Decision 17/2004), for
Upgrading from Teacher Training School level to Teacher Training College level (Decision
4578/2004) and for University level (Decision 39/2006). The second way in which the project
went beyond its development objectives was by designing additional modules based on the
progressive introduction of the new primary school curriculum from Grade 1 (2002-2003) to
Grade 5 (2006-2007). The penalty paid for these decisions was a delay in module production that
eventually impacted on the timely delivery of training. On the other hand, the reward for these
initiatives was that the project and its materials had immediate national relevance for both in-
service and pre-service training. This synergy meant that the modules became highly sought after
and MoET funded the production of additional materials to support in-service training on the new
curriculum in the remaining 54 provinces. A further notable achievement was the scripting of
154 television programs of which 50 had been televised nationally by VTV2. The original
development objective was to produce some modules for delivery in a distance education mode,
although the medium was not specified. The use of television programs, although currently at
inconvenient times and without coverage to some remote locations, was a brilliant strategy since
programs could be recorded off air and used flexibly at other times or in remote locations and in
addition, they became accessible to parents and served to heighten interest in new teaching
methods and to promote the work of schools in their communities.

The timely production of modules was a continuing challenge for the project. Institutions with a
high reputation not surprisingly won contracts to produce modules under competitive
procurement rules. However, their workload and competing priorities often meant that they
failed to deliver on time. In the end, far more institutions were involved in module development
resulting in capacity building across the nation. Other problems were encountered with delays in
mass production of materials and associated procurement procedures. Hence in the early stages
of training plans, some training had to be undertaken with photocopied materials or without
equipment to play video clips. The scale of the enterprise for materials production and for
delivery of training is fully documented in Annex 2 and attached tables showing the numbers of
modules produced, the print and video copies that were mass produced, and the numbers of
person-modules delivered through in-service training.

For in-service training, some modules were prescribed as core modules while others were
designated as optional. It was significant that modules were produced on topics relevant to



                                                   13

special needs in the system (e.g., Vietnamese language strengthening for ethnic minority children;
Teaching Children with Disabilities; and Multigrade Teaching). Other modules were produced
on new developments where teachers required assistance (e.g., Information Technology;
Environmental Education; and Action Research in the Classroom). Feedback from teachers and
principals during completion workshops and surveys indicated that schools would have preferred
more flexibility in choosing modules and in determining how many modules might be taken by
any one teacher. Central planning, although devolved to the provincial level, prescribed which
modules would be delivered and assumed that all teachers would take the same number.

A feature of the school-based delivery of in-service modules was that they were devised for some
face-to-face hours, followed by a much higher time in self study, using print materials. Feedback
suggested that this model helped to generate in teachers a culture of self improvement, reinforced
by the knowledge that completion of further training would result in recognition by growth on the
professional standards, or if formally enrolled in an Upgrading program through a TTI, in gaining
a higher qualification.

Under the project, almost 6,000 teachers completed training on TTI campuses to bring their
qualifications from Teacher Training School level (12+2) to College level (12+3). As a
consequence, these teachers became eligible for promotion to the next title developed and
approved under Component D.

Under Component B, the project also provided domestic Masters degree programs for 73 TTI
staff and education managers. Their research theses appropriately covered topics related to the
project's reform agenda. However, the numbers fell short of the target of 150 and plans to train a
further 56 people through Overseas Masters degrees was abandoned when insufficient
applications were received, with foreign language requirements being a major obstacle. After
addressing bureaucratic and logistic difficulties, the project delivered a short period (one month)
of overseas training for 343 persons in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Although this
overseas training occurred very late in the project, it had a striking impact on participants as
reflected in their evaluations and in their post-training activities within their provinces and
districts. One activity included making videos modeling best practice in the classroom, as
inferred from their overseas observations. The evidence pointed to the powerful influence of
first-hand experience of new teaching methods compared with learning from theory.

Finally under Component B, there was considerable capacity building undertaken by the project
for TTIs, DoETs and BoETs. The capacity building included training for staff, not least through
their active leadership in project activities, and substantial procurement of new equipment.
Resource Centers were equipped in 107 project districts and became an ideal venue for in-service
training, a base to store software (print, videos, IT software) developed by the project, a location
for new ICT and other equipment, and a site for local development of additional teaching and
learning materials. Under the project, TTIs also received substantial equipment for IT, music, art,
crafts, and physical education. Schools also received computers and overhead projectors on the
premise that teachers who had undertaken relevant in-service training would be motivated to use
this equipment in line with their training in new teaching methods.

Component C: Highly Satisfactory

The project's contribution to quality assurance was threaded through all components, but
involved some specific achievements under Component C. Since QA was a relatively new
concept in Vietnam, the project developed a framework for QA activities that involved a series of
steps with feedback and wide consultation to ensure that outputs and outcomes achieved defined
standards. In addition, QA work involved good recording keeping and the maintenance and use
of databases thus integrating QA with M & E activities.




                                                   14

Software was developed, with refinement through 3 versions, for the Professional Development
Information System (PDIS). This database on teachers recorded their accomplishments on the
professional standards (Component A), their successful completion of in-service modules
(Component B), and their classification according to teachers' titles (Component D), as well as
other background variables. Managers at all levels were assisted to use data analysis from the
PDIS to assist planning, monitoring and evaluation. The PDIS with accompanying copyright has
been transferred to the Department for Teachers and Managers within MoET for future use.
There remains scope for further enhancement of the PDIS, including its interface with MoET's
Personnel Management Information System (PMIS) and opportunities for research on teacher
deployment, upgrading and career enhancement.

Accreditation was also a relatively new concept in Vietnam and Component C set about a
development process to accredit teacher training programs. Through research, consultation and
trial, 7 criteria were identified and validated, and a set of procedures established, initially for self
accreditation of programs within a TTI, and then for external accreditation. Under the project,
programs were accredited in all 10 TTIs and those in 4 institutions proceeded to external
accreditation. The work on accreditation of courses was given legal status for national use
through Decision 75/2006 and has now been transferred to the Department of Testing and
Accreditation for wider application. The work on accreditation is a further notable achievement
of the PTDP with system-wide status.

No reform can be successful unless it is widely understood and eventually owned by stakeholders
themselves. Starting with Professional Standards, the PTDP engaged in a dynamic
communications strategy to explain the concepts and to seek feedback from the profession and
the public. The strategy included articles in newspapers and magazines as well as use of radio
and television. The campaign was mounted at national and provincial levels and invited
participation by educators, parents and the public. Products of the communications strategy were
documented but its evaluation points to the key role this strategy played in developing not only
public acceptance of change, but ownership of it as a symbol of progress within schools and
education generally. Later publicity encompassed all project components and was coordinated
through Component D.

Component D: Highly Satisfactory

The developmental work on teachers' conditions of service went beyond the development
objective in the PAD by not only undertaking research and wide consultation on changes, but by
securing formal legal status for some proposed changes. Assisted by international consultants,
Component D undertook research on classification of teachers into titles and carried out surveys
and consultative workshops on criteria associated with 3 proposed titles. The prospect of having
a career structure where teachers could progress to higher levels through enhanced qualifications
and performance, and be remunerated accordingly, was highly motivating for teachers.
Following successive drafts of teachers' titles, refined through trials and workshops, Component
D worked with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) to have the titles (Regular Teacher; Senior
Teacher; and Lead Teacher) promulgated as Decision 61/2005. However, these developments
occurred so smoothly that the work on the Professional Profile was not ratified, so the Decision
on titles is essentially based on qualifications and does not include performance appraisal as
measured by the Professional Standards. This aspect has to be regarded as unfinished business at
the end of the project, although the inclusion of professional standards in the criteria for titles is
likely to be easier when professional standards have been developed for teachers at other levels as
well.

At an early stage of the project, links of titles to the salary scale were considered sensitive and a
conservative approach was adopted for what the PTDP might be able to achieve. However, it is a



                                                    15

tribute to collaborative work of this Component with other ministries and the accompanying wide
consultation with stakeholder groups that Joint Circular 81/2005 was issued by MoHA and MoF
with new salary scale coefficients linked to teachers' titles.

A third area where Component D was able to secure formal changes was in relation to prescribed
norms for the workload of primary teachers under different school conditions (level, size, location,
number of sessions) and classroom situations (full day schooling, multigrade classes, ethnic
composition, and maternity provision). Joint Circular 35/2006 between MoET and MoHA
formalized changes to the norms.

The Component D team also investigated in depth options for greater autonomy at the school
level and undertook research on obligations and responsibilities of principals under different
scenarios for delegation. The findings and recommendations from their research and
development work has been passed to relevant MoET departments and will become area for
follow-up under subsequent projects. School-based management (SBM) is a central plank in
various reforms of basic education in the region and already features in meeting the different
needs of schools under the PEDC project. Variations in levels of SBM will need to be addressed
under staged progression towards to full-day schooling (e.g., under SEQAP) and the initial work
undertaken by the PTDP will provide a foundation for these developments.

3.3 Efficiency

The project did not collect any systematic data on cost effectiveness or least cost comparisons so
to this extent, this ICR does not address efficiency. The completion report prepared by the PCU
does identify cost savings in some areas. The project team discussed the tension between
building capacity for procurement at a provincial or district level by devolving procurement
activities and the gains in cost effectiveness through centralized and large scale procurement. No
major items were procured locally and to this extent, costs were contained and procedures were
controlled. The price for this strategy was that local capacity building on procurement was not
promoted and little provision was made to tailor equipment and materials to local needs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall rating of highly satisfactory was made after careful analysis of project achievements
relative to the development objectives. The project was very faithful in keeping the development
objectives as a central focus. Moreover, these objectives remained highly relevant within the
country and even internationally, where there are robust debates on professional standards for
teachers and teacher compensation based on performance. The dilemma for many countries, and
developed countries in particular, is that, even if performance pay is accepted as a worthwhile
goal, a fair basis for allocation is difficult to define. Having a career structure with levels based
on defined standards (in addition to qualifications) is a sensible way to proceed. But in many
countries where unions are powerful stakeholders and a unitary pay scale is entrenched, any move
to set levels in the salary scale is likely to be strongly resisted by the workforce.

Against this background, the progress made by the PTDP in introducing 3 titles for teachers
(Regular Teacher; Senior Teacher; and Lead Teacher) is highly significant, even if at this stage
the professional standards still have to be included in the equation. The work done on the
standards by the project has achieved remarkable recognition by the profession, the employer and
the public. They are regarded as fair, useful because they spell out teachers' responsibilities and
recognize their achievements, and objective because they are based on evidence. In addition, the
PTDP not only developed the standards but had them formalized for primary teachers. As a
consequence, standards are now being developed for other levels.




                                                     16

Similarly in other components, it is the fact that the project went beyond its development
objectives and built a bridge to system-level adoption of reforms that the project has earned the
highly satisfactory rating (see Table 1 in section 3.5 (b)). In summary, not only did the project
meet the development objectives by building a foundation for change, but it made significant
inroads into strengthening the system and institutionalizing reforms (see section 3.5 (b)).

Finally and most importantly, significant improvement in student learning in project provinces as
shown in the comparison of the test scores in Mathematics and Vietnamese reading of primary
school leavers in 2001 and 2007 justifies the highly satisfactory rating of the project outcomes.
Table 1 shows that in mathematics, while at national level no significant improvement is
observed, seven out of ten project provinces achieved significant gains in the pupil test scores.
For Vietnamese reading, nine project provinces made significant gains.

Table 1. Result and comparison of 2001 and 2007 studies of Grade 5 achievement in 10 project
provinces
                                                           Mathematics
      Project provinces                   2001                      2007            Comparison
                                   Mean           SD          Mean          SD        2001/2007
  1 Vinh Phuc                        500.04       104.18       558.87        96.36         +
  2 Hai Phong                        529.54         96.99      573.42        97.20         +
  3 Ninh Binh                        474.64         90.49      559.72        96.00         +
  4 Son La                           497.03       110.73       426.43       102.98         -
  5 Quang Binh                       539.34         94.15      535.69       100.02         =
  6 Phu Yen                          484.97         85.36      507.90       107.65         +
  7 Kon Tum                          460.97       111.47       472.29       107.73         =
  8 Ho Chi Minh City                 540.05         86.01      561.87        83.31        +
  9 Binh Phuoc                       459.04         81.20      484.25        90.57        +
 10 Ben Tre                          486.81         81.69      518.98        85.02        +
      Vietnam                        500.00       100.00       505.86       108.72         =

                                                      Vietnamese Reading
      Project provinces                   2001                      2007            Comparison
                                   Mean           SD          Mean          SD        2001/2007
  1 Vinh Phuc                        493.49         99.65      579.57        86.62        +
  2 Hai Phong                        525.49         93.04      578.38        86.65        +
  3 Ninh Binh                        477.89         83.60      578.63        88.89        +
  4 Son La                           486.35       104.60       468.83        88.95         =
  5 Quang Binh                       531.70         84.31      565.13        92.31         +
  6 Phu Yen                          494.90         88.26      573.15        94.49        +
  7 Kon Tum                          461.55       118.56       508.40        99.24        +
  8 Ho Chi Minh City                 546.99         89.94      584.08        78.30        +
  9 Binh Phuoc                       474.70         89.73      512.36        79.60        +
 10 Ben Tre                          496.14         86.44      534.89        81.46        +
      Vietnam                        500.00          100       533.77        96.60        +

In the samples of both two studies, 268 schools received direct support from the project. Table 2
shows that in mathematics the gains are most apparent in rural schools whereas for Vietnamese
reading the gains are across all three types of location: urban, rural and remote areas.

Table 2. Result and comparison of 2001 and 2007 studies of Grade 5 student achievement in 268
project schools.



                                                  17

 Project schools                                  Mathematics
 by locations          2001                                    2007           Comparison
                              Mean              SD        Mean        SD        2001/2007
 Remote                             463.44     104.52     450.37      98.03          =
 Rural                              475.56      91.91     520.63      97.71          +
 Urban                              538.38      98.61     551.70      96.40          =
 Vietnam                            500.00     100.00     505.86    108.72          =
                                              Vietnamese Reading
                                    2001                       2007           Comparison
                              Mean              SD        Mean        SD        2001/2007
 Remote                             453.56     101.90     493.89      96.30          +
 Rural                              482.72      92.78     543.72      89.32          +
 Urban                              536.29      96.77     577.14      91.09          +
 Vietnam                            500.00     100.00     533.77      96.60          +

Note: the scores are standardized at 500 with standard deviation of 100, anchored in the 2001
tests. For comparison, "+" denotes gains in more than 20 scores; "=" denotes changes that are
insignificant and "-" denotes negative changes in more than 20 scores.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While the PEDC project was specifically targeted at disadvantaged children, the current project
was concerned with developing the quality of teachers nationwide. In drawing the sample of 10
provinces to participate, an effort was made to have wide representation of geographic locations,
including some from remote or difficult locations. To this extent, the activities promoting teacher
upgrading were designed to cater to the needs of all teachers and school communities and hence
to promote equity of prevision. In addition, as noted in section 2.5, in-service modules were
developed on Vietnamese Language Strengthening for Ethnic Minority Children, Teaching
Students with Disabilities, and Multigrade Teaching. These modules had particular relevance for
disadvantaged groups and provinces were able to select optional modules according to their
analysis of needs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Three points warrant mention. Firstly, since the PDO was based on building a foundation for
upgrading teachers nationwide, the project had to build a reform agenda around teachers'
preparation, work and on-going professional development. Throughout this ICR, it has been
argued that the project confronted this task from a sound research basis, using the international
literature on teacher standards, and conveying an image of a different form of professional
commitment. Through its communications strategy and its research, the PTDP sought to refine
the professional standards in ways that they were owned by teachers, used as a management tool
by authorities, and widely acknowledged by the public. The characteristics of the Professional
Standards that were developed, the reliance on evidence, the provision of support through in-
service training, and the rewards or incentives for teachers who change together make up a
coherent, logical and attractive package of reforms.

Secondly, by not just developing models and strategies as envisaged by the PAD but by taking
key strategies to the next stage where they were given legal status and promulgated, the project
already achieved significant institutionalization. In summary, the formal decisions approved as a
result of project interventions and products transferred to MoET are listed below.



                                                 18

Table 3. Summary of Actions Demonstrating Project Contributions to Institutional Change
 Component            Legal Status                       Content                Ministries/Departments
      A            Decision 14/2007       Regulation on Primary Teacher         MoET/ Primary
                                          Professional Standards                Education
      B            Decision 17/2004       Curriculum for College level Pre-     Higher Education
                                          Service Teacher Training
                  Decision 4578/2004      Curriculum for Upgrading to College   Higher Education
                                          level Teacher Training
                   Decision 39/2006       Curriculum for University level Pre-  Higher Education
                                          Service Teacher Training
      C            Decision 75/2006       Accreditation of College level        MoET/Department of
                                          Teacher Training Program              Testing and
                                                                                Accreditation
      D            Decision 61/2005       Teachers' Titles                      MoHA
                      Joint Circular      Salary scales associated with titles  MoHA/MoF
                        81/2005
                      Joint Circular      Teacher deployment and workload       MoET/MoHA
                        35/2006
 Component          Completed work                       Content                Ministries/Departments
      B                32 modules         In-service and pre-service training   MoET/Department of
                                          modules and support materials +       Teachers and
                                          copyright                             Managers
                   150 TV programs        Television programs derived from in-  VTV2
                                          service modules
      C                  PDIS             Information System for Teachers +     MoET/Teachers &
                                          copyright                             Managers
                                                                                MoET/Personnel &
                                                                                Organisation

Thirdly, the project has built capacity at a local level through strengthening TTIs, DoETs, and
BoETs. Although this strengthening has mainly been for those in the 10 target provinces, the
materials have been shared with TTIs in the remaining 54 provinces. The print materials and
video clips from the training modules have been stored on DVDs for ease of copying and will
also be located on MoET's website making them accessible across the whole country. Part of the
capacity building at a local level is also the empowering of teachers through application of the
Professional Standards. Since judgments about standards are based on evidence for explicit
knowledge and behaviors, teachers are able to build a portfolio of their achievements and submit
this as evidence for their status on the profile.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The revision of teacher training curricula was not planned as part of the design and represents a
significant unintended outcome. Similarly, the decision to develop modules to assist the
introduction of the new curriculum was an unintended outcome with a significant impact system-
wide. The decision by other levels of the system to develop professional standards for their
teachers is a further impact of the PTDP.

Within the civil service, the adoption of a standards-based approach to teacher quality through the
development of the primary teacher profile appears to be a first in Vietnam. While other
professions have yet to respond to this challenge, a model now exists within the civil service for
changing the way workplace responsibilities are defined, monitored and rewarded.

Finally, through the very effective communications strategy as well as TV exposure, parents and
the public are more aware of changes occurring in schools, of new approaches to teaching and
learning, and of expectations for teachers. This is a healthy environment in which to build local



                                                  19

support for schools, to encourage parents to be advocates for their schools, and to achieve school-
level accountability. In short, such an environment begins to build a foundation for increased
school-level autonomy as can be expected in progress towards school-based management.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

In preparation for project completion and as means of measuring project impact and identifying
lessons learned, the PCU commissioned three studies and initiated a fourth.
1. A survey based on effectiveness of the in-service module delivery. This survey was
    conducted in all 10 provinces and targeted managers (24 per province) and teachers (60 per
    province) who had completed at least 4 of the in-service modules. Information and
    evaluations were sought on the effectiveness of the training, the use made of the modules, and
    their distribution.
2. A classroom observation study. This study focused on the impact of the in-service training
    on teachers, students, managers, key teachers and parents. Information was obtained by
    classroom observation, interviews with managers, focus groups with students, and survey
    forms for parents. The study was extensive, involving 1,300 teachers (13 per school with 10
    schools per province across all 10 provinces), each observed in 3 classrooms (mathematics,
    Vietnamese, and an elective), over 7,000 students and over 200 key teachers and managers.
    The observations provided a picture of what teachers did in classrooms. The distribution in
    Figure 2 over five categories (accuracy of knowledge; focus on key concepts; provide
    illustrations to support concepts; explore prior knowledge and concepts of pupils; and
    summarize key points) shows teachers' knowledge of content and methods.
    Figure 2. Teacher knowledge competency levels



         100%


           80%


           60%
                                                                                          Average
           40%                                                                            Good

                                                                                          Very good
           20%


            0%
                   Accuracy of Focus on key  Explanation &     Exploring   Summary of
                   knowledge     contents    illustration of student prior key contents
                                                difficult     knowledge
                                                concepts




    Figure 3 shows a distribution of different teaching methods used by teachers over four
    categories ­ using diverse methods; using teaching aids; using open-ended questions; and
    providing clear tasks for pupils.




                                                  20

   Figure 3. Teacher pedagogical skill levels.


         100%


          80%


          60%                                                                             Average

                                                                                          Good
          40%                                                                             Very good

          20%


           0%
                   Diversity of      Utilization of     Using age-       Giving clear
                 teaching methods     appropriate    approprate open   assignments to
                                     teaching aids      questions         students




3. A beneficiary survey conducted in all 10 provinces. The sample targeted 250 schools (5
   schools in each of 5 districts in each of 10 provinces). For each school, a questionnaire was
   completed by 2 managers and 10 teachers (who had completed at least 3 modules). Within
   each province, other people surveyed included key teachers, DoET managers, BoET
   managers, TTI managers and lecturers, and final year TTI students.

Results from the beneficiary survey (the last dot point above) are discussed in Annex 5. For the
other studies, evaluations were generally very positive and the impact of the project was
significant. (Lessons learned were also documented, but these are included under section 6).
Some of the broad conclusions from the reports are as follows:
· teachers demonstrated a positive change in attitude following their involvement in the project
   activities;
· students were active and interested learners and enjoyed school because of their participation
   and cooperative learning opportunities;
· teachers made more use of teaching aids;
· teachers gave more feedback to students and reinforced their learning;
· parents paid more attention to what was happening in schools;
· key teachers were complimented for their leadership in the training sessions;
· teachers found training sessions interesting, diverse and using new methods;
· teachers felt they developed a repertoire of new skills (such as giving students feedback) from
   their training;
· school-based training offered opportunities to practise and apply the theory;
· there was concern that supervisors might not appreciate changes in teaching methods (e.g.,
   leading to noisy classrooms);
· managers wished to insist on continuous upgrading and valued self learning for teachers;
· telecasts were at inconvenient times (either late at night, or when teachers were in class);
· managers trained to use the PDIS found it helpful for monitoring and planning;
· the project had helped to develop stronger links between schools and TTIs; and



                                                   21

· the project had helped to build a better relationship between the DoET and the TTI.

A fourth study commenced under the PTDP is the Grade 5 Achievement Study. The PTDP and
many other ODA-funded projects have a vested interest in results from the achievement study as
a sector indicator within their M & E frameworks.

A Grade 5 achievement study in mathematics and Vietnamese language was carried out in 2001
and the results are available as baseline data for evaluation of the impact of subsequent projects as
well as for system-level monitoring. The year 2007 was an appropriate time to test Grade 5
pupils as this cohort had completed the full cycle for the new primary school curriculum. PTDP
financed the design and administration of the tests but the analysis of the data is carried out by
the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project as PTDP closed in June 2007.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

Because the project has achieved its development goals and extended a number of them to
include system-wide application, the rating of risk to development outcome is judged as low. The
ICR has presented evidence of Government ownership of the most innovative intervention on the
Professional Profile as well as institutional support from education sector agencies and broader
stakeholder ownership from the public as a result of the extensive communications strategy.
Since the development work within the 10 provinces was fairly intensive, with close monitoring,
extensive capacity building and regular training, it must be expected that full system-wide
application will be somewhat diluted when compared with the initial development. On the other
hand, if continued institutionalization of the reforms occurs with more local autonomy, local
management can be expected to add value, increase relevance, and enhance local accountability.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The project intervention on teacher reform was timely, highly relevant, and strategic. The Bank
(along with DFID) used a range of staff and consultants during the lending phase and during
project preparation. Extensive consultation was held with local educators responsible for the new
primary school curriculum (e.g., at the National Institute of Educational Studies) as well as those
in MoET and TTIs responsible for pre-service and in-service training. Specialists were used to
correspond to the requirements for expertise within different components. Hence technical
aspects were adequately addressed. The Bank/DFID team also held extensive meetings with
other GoV ministries linked to teacher supply and demand, including MPI, MoF, MoHA, and the
Government Office. Initially, information on the system was limited and considerable effort at
preparation went into new data collection and unpacking existing MoET procedures on recruiting,
training, deploying and supervising teachers as well as the role and responsibilities of teachers
within the civil service. From this work, policy and institutional aspects of the proposed reform
were judged as appropriate.

The complexity of the design stemmed more from the logistics of implementation arrangements
than the logic and design of the proposed intervention. The M & E arrangements were sufficient
to permit regular monitoring of implementation and for adjustments to be made as required. The
decision to extend the project by 18 months and the benefits achieved as a result are evidence of
the effectiveness of the monitoring arrangements. Care was taken to maintain the logical
contingencies in the design (as set out in the log-frame) while addressing potential critical risks.



                                                  22

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision by the Bank/DFID included on-going advice and support from staff in-country,
particularly for problems as they arose, as well as bi-annual supervision missions. The
supervision was timely and technically sound, and supported by systematic and well organized
written reports from PCU and component teams. Expertise brought in as part of supervision
included advice on teacher standards, teacher development, curriculum reform, materials
development including use of learning technologies, and civil service reform. With a relatively
stable Bank team used for supervision missions, close rapport was established with the PCU and
joint field visits gave additional insights into problems in implementation. As a consequence,
there was frank reporting of issues and problems and transparent assessment of performance.
Advice offered or options raised by Bank/DFID supervision missions were diligently addressed
by the PCU and often gave rise to extensions of activities beyond the development objectives.
Such advice was normally focused on the development impact rather than the mechanics of
implementation. For example, when pressed at an early stage to develop a conceptual framework
for the planned in-service training modules, the project team responded by engaging in a
complete curriculum revision for teacher training, and then locating the modules within the
framework of the new curriculum.

Procurement was one area where significant challenges were encountered from time to time
requiring persistent dialogue between the project team and the Bank. Some issues initially
stemmed from lack of familiarity by the borrower with Bank procedures, coupled with the need to
meet the complex Government requirements at the same time. Some delays in procurement at
early stages did impact on implementation (e.g., when initial training programs were delivered
without sufficient equipment to use the video materials and with a shortage of print materials
requiring stop-gap photocopying). The project team expressed some frustration in reconciling
Government and Bank requirements in spite of progress on harmonization and the team also
expressed concern that approvals took longer than expected.

Financial Management was adequately handled with timely reporting. Slow disbursement was a
concern in the early stages but was systematically addressed in on-going supervision. In contrast,
frenetic activity towards the end of the project required due diligence in financial management.
FM reports adequately portrayed loan, grant and counterpart funds by activity and component.

Monitoring and Evaluation was greatly assisted by the positive approach to quality assurance
used throughout the project with maintenance of databases on project achievements and the
PCU's adherence to minimum targets set down in the design. Having a component on QA within
the project design had positive benefits for the project's own M & E activities. Reporting during
supervision missions thus included regular reporting against KPIs in both quantitative and
qualitative terms.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

With the project design well aligned with the Government's program and policy directions, and
with a competent implementing agency, the Bank was able to focus on development objectives
without major distractions due to issues in implementation. When fiduciary and other
implementation issues arose from time to time, they were addressed directly and resolved.
Reporting from formal Bank/DFID supervision missions was sufficiently detailed and candid to
provide adequate feedback, including encouragement for significant achievements. Based on the
analyses above, the Bank's rating of overall performance was judged as "satisfactory".




                                                   23

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government commitment to the PTDP and its ownership of the project was confirmed by the use
of a high-level Steering Committee for project oversight. This committee was chaired by the
relevant vice minister who was designated as the National Project Director. This designation was
far more than nominal and the Vice Minister took a very active role in project development and
implementation and a "hands on" approach to policy-related decision making. The Steering
Committee included representation from key central ministries and oversight agencies. Their
regular participation, along with that of various MoET departments, was regular and engaging,
with post-meeting follow-up as required. This participation created an enabling environment
conducive to a reform agenda for upgrading the quality of teachers and providing corresponding
recognition and compensation. Without this supportive environment from Government ministries
and agencies, the project would not have been able to achieve formal, legal changes to teacher
training curricula, classification of teachers into 3 titles, changes in salary scales and staffing
norms, and accreditation of teacher training programs. In summary, leadership from the
Government level was far more than token and was one factor in facilitating the project's ability
to begin institutionalization of the reforms on teacher quality, thus going beyond the PDO.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Education and Training and its project coordination unit had a clear perspective
on the policy reform underpinning the PDO and a professional commitment to make it effective.
The PCU had stable membership throughout the project and also contracted highly competent
consultants for its activities. Most problems were encountered in module development (under
Component B) where the scale of the operation was large, the requirements of new teaching
methods were unfamiliar, the approach to media-supported instructional materials was innovative,
and development was required on a strict timeline because of contingencies for delivery of
training. In addition, Component B also included the logistically complex activities for delivery
of training, requiring capacity development at provincial and district levels as well as detailed
planning and diligent execution. The bulk of the project's procurement was also associated with
activities in this component. Component B also had to handle relationships with the participating
TTIs in addition to the DoETs. When problems arose, project management was quick to respond
and resourceful in dividing up the Component B team and reallocating responsibilities in line
with the skills and competence of coordinators. This action is evidence of the project
management's capacity to resolve implementation issues in a timely manner.

Because of the design of the project requiring links across components, coordination was crucial.
Since quality assurance was a concept that was threaded across all component activities,
Component C with this responsibility was instrumental in achieving the required level of
coordination. The coordination was more than a matter of contingency timing. It required
integration of the products from one component into other components. One example where such
integration failed to materialize was the non-inclusion at this stage of criteria from the
Professional Standards into the scheme for classification of teachers. The work on teachers' titles
(under Component D) proceeded so well that formal approval (already beyond the development
objective) through the Ministry of Home Affairs was achieved prior to finalization of the work on
the Professional Standards. Hence the dilemma: promulgation of teachers' titles was a significant
outcome; non-inclusion of Professional Standards as well as award qualifications in the titles was
a disappointment. This aspect of unfinished business should be able to be addressed into future



                                                  24

operations, given the arrangements in place for continuing developments under a new project
umbrella.

Stakeholder feedback (Annex 6) expressed some concern about the time available for some
project activities, particularly towards the end of the project, and the flow of supporting funds.
With conflicting priorities and the need to complete activities with stringent deadlines, some
compromises were inevitable and considerable effort was required out-of-hours. Having to
finalize data collection, including that related to the beneficiary surveys, before the end of the
school year imposed a further constraint.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Combination of the ratings under (a) and (b) yields the overall rating of "satisfactory". The
extent to which the project has exceeded its development objectives by making inroads into
institutionalizing reforms on teacher quality is a tribute to Government performance and to the
quality of leadership and vision demonstrated in the implementing agency. The evidence in the
ICR leads to the conclusion that performance within the satisfactory band is readily justified and
that it is only qualified achievement around some procurement and implementation issues that
prevents an even higher rating.

6. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned are drawn from several sources, including analysis and observations at all
stages of project design and implementation, regular supervision missions, feedback from
beneficiary survey results, discussion at the stakeholder workshop, and items addressed in the
borrower's ICR.

Lessons learned with wide application include the following.

    The relative merits of a project v. a sector-wide approaches (SWAp) is frequently discussed.
    The PTDP was able to combine the advantages of both approaches. Some of the innovative
    developments, such as the development of Professional Standards and new approaches to the
    design of instructional materials for professional development, benefitted from operations
    within a limited project context. On the other hand, by embedding the reforms in a system-
    wide context (e.g., locating training modules within new teacher training curricula), it became
    much easier to apply project outcomes at a system level.

    The proactive communications strategy used in the PTDP highlighted the benefit of giving
    wide publicity to education reforms, gaining credibility, and developing a broad consensus
    among stakeholders.

    Involvement of key stakeholders in developments and policy decision making is necessary to
    secure ownership of reforms.

    Changes involving significant reforms take time. The PTDP was initially designed for three
    and a half years and, even when extended to five years, activities towards the end of the
    project were hurried. More time would have created more opportunities for system-wide
    application.

    Being able to translate successful project outputs into formal, legal documents and to have
    them promulgated by authorities was a strategic way to ensure their relevance and impact
    beyond the project.




                                                  25

   Innovations introduced at one level of a system, with demonstrated success, can readily
   transfer and be applied with modifications at other levels. Conversely, if other levels are not
   involved, introduction of reforms will be thwarted.

   Some devolution of responsibility to provinces and districts was welcomed and successful but
   even greater devolution, albeit with increased risk, would have enabled a closer match to
   local needs and increased relevance and sustainability.

Lessons learned in the project context include the following.

   A standards-based approach in education has much to recommend it in terms of clear
   expectations for outcomes, objective evidence of achievement, planning for growth or
   development, and rewarding progress. (The standards-based approach was applied to teacher
   performance, professional development using modules, accreditation of training programs,
   the school charter, and student achievement).

   Although some of the detail in the development of Professional Standards cannot be included
   in formal regulations such as Decision 14/2007, this detail need not be lost if it is included in
   the instrument used to assess teachers regularly within schools.

   A task orientation, as provided by the project, is a good way to increase collaboration
   between DoETs, TTIs, BoETs and schools.

   Changes in teaching methods are best achieved through combining theory and practice, as
   happened when teachers undertook training modules while involved in teaching the new
   curriculum.

   Teachers appreciated the Professional Profile because it defined their work, set targets for
   improvement, and offered rewards for better performance.

   Teachers' attitudes changed through being recognized for their achievements and motivated
   them to seek self improvement, including through self learning.

   The motivation for teachers to engage in self improvement could be impeded unless
   performance appraisal (as measured by Professional Standards) is included in the criteria for
   teachers' titles, along with qualifications.

   In keeping with greater autonomy for principals and then teachers, teachers should be
   encouraged to collect evidence (e.g., in a personal portfolio) of their progress towards higher
   professional standards and to submit this evidence when they are assessed.

   Greater flexibility (e.g., allowing teachers to select modules and the number they could
   complete) would have been preferable to prescribing professional development modules
   within provinces.

   The formal Upgrading Program was only delivered on TTI campuses. With a system that
   allowed teachers to undertake school-based modules and then be assessed for their
   completion/achievement would have met the needs of more teachers who still have to achieve
   minimum qualifications.

   The PDIS was appreciated by managers at all levels who learned to use it for planning and
   monitoring. Any successful management information system needs regular and reliable data
   collection and feedback to lower levels on their status and performance relative to other
   levels in the system.

   Using the PDIS as a starting point, and working with PEDC and relevant MoET departments,
   the Department for Teachers and Managers needs to seek rationalization and effective use of
   the management information systems currently in use.



                                                 26

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers (DFID)

PTDP has emerged as a model of the strategic potential of projects to innovate reform and policy
change. It is a good example of how a well-focused and innovative project, targeting only 10 of
64 provinces, can have a catalytic impact on national education policy and more broadly on
public sector reform. Based on the evidence of previous supervision missions and this internal
completion assessment, DFID has rated the project as a good performer for internal reporting
purposes.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

PRIMARY TEACHER
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS                    1.01               0.65             64

TRAINING FOR PRIMARY
TEACHERS AND EDUCATION                  26.15              25.95             99.2
MANAGERS
QUALITY ASSURANCE FOR
PRIMARY TEACHERS                          3.68               1.9             51.6

REVISION OF TERMS OF
SERVICE                                   0.50               0.4              80

PROJECT COORDINATION,
CAPACITY STRENGTHENING                    4.41               3.3              75
AND MONITORING


            Total Baseline Cost         35.75               32.2              90

Physical Contingencies                    0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00               0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs       35.75
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required          35.75




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            5.62           5.5          98
UK: British Department for
International Development (DFID)                    10.29          9.5          92

International Development
Association (IDA)                                   19.84         15.9          80

                                                    35.75




                                            28

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component


 Component/     Expected Outputs (from           Actually Delivered                 Remarks
Subcomponent         PAD/original                      Outputs
                 Implementation Plan)
Component A: Development of Teacher Professional Standards ($1.01 million)
Professional   A teacher professional       The Primary Teacher            This development was
Standards for  Profile is drafted, tested,  Professional Standards         accompanied by an
Primary        revised and agreed with      (Profile), with 3 strands and  extensive communications
Teachers       key stakeholders             4 levels in each, was          strategy using journals,
                                            developed. Successive          newspapers, radio and TV,
                                            refinements (see below)        to inform the profession
                                            were made through 5            and the public on the
                                            versions before final          rationale for, and use of,
                                            approval by MoET               teachers' standards. The
                                                                           language of the Profile
                                                                           became a vocabulary to
                                                                           describe a reform in
                                                                           teaching.
               Draft professional           Trial conducted with           A feature was the need for
               standards trialed with       approximately 2,200            objective evidence. For
               2,160 teachers in 90         teachers, leading to 4th draft example, this version used
               schools in 10 provinces      dated April 20, 2004           64 pieces of evidence over
               and modified accordingly                                    14 requirements across the
                                                                           3 strands
               Following wide               Large-scale pilot conducted    Extensive analysis
               consultation, the Profile is with 25,000 teachers (about    completed with assistance
               applied to 25,000 teachers   40% of those in the target     of international
               in 10 provinces              provinces). Pilot used 1,000   consultants. Results were
                                            assessors trained by 100       recorded in a project-
                                            trainers and was completed     developed Professional
                                            in March 2005. The 5th         Development Information
                                            version of the Primary         System (PDIS). Score
                                            Teacher Professional           distributions provide
                                            Standards was then             baseline data on teacher
                                            developed.                     performance.
               The Department of            A Regulation on Primary        Promulgation of
               Primary Education            Teacher Professional           Professional Standards for
               formally adopts the Profile  Standards was drafted, with    primary teachers has given
               for regular performance      15 requirements spread over    impetus to the development
               appraisal of teachers        3 strands, and promulgated     of standards for teachers at
                                            by MoET as Decision            other levels, expected to be
                                            14/2007 in May. Guidelines     completed by the end of
                                            for implementation followed    2008.
                                            on September 28, 2007.
               Carry out action research    Some 30 research projects      The developmental work in
               on professional standards    have been completed, papers    Component A of the
                                            have been given at national    project was very thorough
                                            and international              and, in the context of
                                            conferences, and 7 books       current international work
                                            and/or reports documenting     on professional standards,



                                               29

                                             the development and             rates as cutting edge.
                                             application of teacher
                                             standards are available
                Extensions beyond project    Work is proceeding through      Work is proceeding within
                design                       2007/2008 on adapting the       relevant MoET
                                             Primary Teacher                 departments, with advice
                                             Professional Standards to       from project staff. In the
                                             develop standards for           case of Early Childhood,
                                             teachers at other levels        work is well advanced and
                                             (Early Childhood; secondary     a version will be submitted
                                             by subject; specialist areas in for approval by the end of
                                             primary)                        2007.
                System wide impact to        The development of a
                date: while awaiting         School Charter within the
                formal promulgation, the     Department of Primary
                Primary Teacher              Education has used a similar
                Professional Standards       approach, setting down the
                have influenced 5 sector-    rights, obligations and
                wide derivates.              standards of performance
                                             expected of primary schools.
                                             The instrument for annual       At this stage, the
                                             (or regular) performance        evaluation (under
                                             appraisal of teachers within    Regulation 48/2000) still
                                             schools has been modified to    uses a simple 4 levels
                                             conform to professional         rather than the complexity
                                             standards.                      of the Profile with 15
                                                                             requirements.
                                             A generic evaluation form
                                             used to review teachers'
                                             lesson plans has been
                                             developed using the
                                             corresponding section in the
                                             Profile.
                                             Criteria from the Teacher       There is a long tradition in
                                             Professional Standards have     Vietnam of recognizing
                                             been used to modify             Excellent Teachers at
                                             procedures used to identify     school, district, provincial
                                             Excellent Teachers at the       and national levels.
                                             various levels.
                                             A TTI pro forma and             The Component A team
                                             manual based on Decision        has conducted workshops
                                             42 by MoET, through the         and provided materials on
                                             Department of Student           the Primary Teacher
                                             Affairs, has been derived       Professional Standards for
                                             from the Profile and            all TTIs across the 64
                                             provides a formal basis for     provinces.
                                             pre-service trainees to
                                             engage in self-appraisal of
                                             their performance, including
                                             school experience.
Component B: Training Programs for Teachers and Education Managers ($26.15 million)
B: Training     Coordinate all activities in After a slow beginning, the
Coordination    B1 to B6, conduct            work was accomplished by
($0.58 million) evaluation and monitor       forming dedicated teams
                outputs, provide a template  with responsibilities for



                                                30

                for module design (print    different sub-components
                and video), undertake
                policy and action research.
B1: Teacher     Undertake a needs analysis  The curriculum for College-   In the design, it was
Training        and specify the content of  level pre-service training    intended that the project
Curriculum      training packages           (12+3) has been revised       would identify urgent or
Development                                 following wide consultation   strategic training needs,
($0.22 million)                             and promulgated as Decision   package them
                                            No. 17/2004                   conceptually, and then
                                            The curriculum to upgrade     develop training modules
                                            teachers from 12+2 status to  to match. The project went
                                            College level (12+3) has      well beyond this
                                            been revised and              expectation by revising
                                            promulgated as Decision No.   teacher training curricula
                                            4578/2004                     following wide
                                            The curriculum for pre-       consultation, and then
                                            service university level      having them formally
                                            teacher training has been     approved.
                                            revised and promulgated as    For all teachers "below
                                            Decision No. 39/2006          standard", a training
                                            Training requirements have    program was specified to
                                            been specified to allow other allow them to qualify for
                                            teachers below standard       an award at the College
                                            (those with 5+3; those with   level, the new minimum
                                            12+6 months; and those        qualification for primary
                                            from Early Childhood) to      teachers.
                                            achieve College-level
                                            qualifications.
B2: Module      At least 24 modules (later  In all, 32 modules have been  Since the module
Development     adjusted to 30) are         developed covering four       development occurred in
($4.68 million) developed following         broad areas as follows:       parallel with the
                extensive trials. The       1.BD series covering in-      introduction of the new
                modules will cover in-        service training but not a  curriculum, 6 additional
                service as well as pre-       formal curriculum: 12       modules (5 grade levels +
                service (including            modules with 12 books       one on new teaching
                Upgrading) training           and 129 videos              methods) were added to
                requirements. In-service    2.CD series covering pre-     cater to teachers' needs in
                modules will target both      service College (12+3)      teaching the new
                primary teachers and          curriculum: 12 modules      curriculum. This gave the
                education managers.           with 32 books and 67        project a national identity
                                              videos                      with MoET funding
                                            3.CH series covering          distribution to the 54 non-
                                              Upgrading to College        project provinces.
                                              level: 4 modules with 8     Two in-service modules
                                              books and 29 videos         were most relevant to
                                            4.DH series for University    principals. Of the 10
                                              level pre-service (12+4): 4 teacher modules, 3 were
                                              modules with 37 books       designated as elective.
                                              and 86 videos               The use of video clips in
                                                                          addition to print materials
                                              More details are provided   represented a significant
                                              in Annex 2, Addendum        shift in the design of
                                              2.1.                        instructional materials.
                At least 14 modules are     All 32 modules have been
                given approval by MoET      approved by MoET
                by the end of the project.


                                               31

               Although not specified as a   The module development        Component B was the most
               formal output, the            work involved 250 authors     extensive and most
               development of materials      with 263 persons involved in  complex of the project.
               was expected to build         review and assessment.        The achievements are most
               capacity, increase            They were selected across     significant but the positive
               flexibility, and enhance      the country. Four             evaluations need to be
               quality in the design and     companies were involved in    qualified in two respects:
               production of instructional   development of video-tapes.   · delays in writing and
               materials.                    A 7-step iterative process      production impacted on
                                             was used for module             the quality and timing of
                                             development to ensure           training delivery and
                                             quality. Materials have also    gave rise to a time
                                             been copied to DVDs and         extension for the project;
                                             will be accessible on the     · final evaluations by
                                             MoET web-site.                  stakeholders indicate
                                                                             significant variations in
                                                                             the quality, scope and
                                                                             relevance of the modules
                                                                             and support materials
B3: Delivery   400 trainers drawn from       Between 2004 and the end      Interpreting statistical data
and use of     TTIs, districts and schools   of the project in June 2007,  on module completions
training       develop capacity to deliver  · training was given for       against targets needs to
modules ($3.00 new modules to primary          9,641 trainer-modules       recognize that modules
million)       teachers                        (some key teachers were     vary in size (or credits)
               Approximately 25,000            trained on several          since some were designed
               teachers complete an            modules)                    to match curriculum
               average of 10 modules by     · 216,653 teacher-modules      subjects.
               the end of the project (i.e.,   had been delivered to       The accomplishments of
               250,000 person modules          primary teachers through    the project in delivery of
               delivered)                      the school-based + self     training met or exceeded
               Subsequent to the initial       study mode                  expectations. However,
               design, more detailed        · 50,452 principal-modules     problems did arise. In the
               action plans were drawn         had been delivered          first year, some training
               up to                         In aggregate, 276,746         was delivered before
               · train key teachers in       person-modules had been       materials were ready.
                 each target province to     completed against the target  Procurement of some
                 deliver modules             of 250,000, with inclusion of equipment (e.g., to play
               · select 6,200 teachers to    1,058 schools in 107          videos) also lagged behind.
                 participate in the          districts over the 10         Delivery of modules was
                 Upgrading program           provinces.                    fairly prescriptive whereas
                 - on TTI campuses; OR       See details in Annex 2,       some teachers might have
                 - through a school-         addendum 2.2.                 preferred to opt for a
                   based Upgrading           From an enrollment of 6,035   heavier or lighter load.
                   program                   teachers in the 18 months     Choices among electives
              · deliver in-service           Upgrading program, 5,982      were made by DoETs and
                 training using BD           had graduated by the end of   not teachers. As a
                 modules to primary          the project. However, the     consequence, M.BD7 on
                 teachers and principals     Upgrading program was         Multigrade Teaching was
                 from 1000 schools in 10     only delivered on TTI         not selected, although it
                 provinces using a mix of    campuses.                     was delivered in some
                 face-to-face training via                                 provinces through other
                 key teachers and self-                                    projects (e.g., PEDC).
                 study                                                     The school-based mode of
              · designate some in-                                         delivery encouraged a
                 service modules as                                        culture of self-study among
                                                                           teachers, reinforced by


                                                32

                optional and give DoETs                                 criteria in the professional
                a choice in selecting                                   standards. Further
                modules for the province                                evaluation on the use of the
                                                                        modules emerges from the
                                                                        survey of stakeholders.
              Additional outputs         The materials developed        The synergy between the
                                         were also shared with TTIs     new curriculum,
                                         nationally so they could be    introduced nationally, and
                                         used in pre-service training   the module development,
                                         and with a number of DoETs     particularly for Modules
                                         beyond the target provinces.   BD1 to BD6 for teachers,
                                                                        and Module BD13 for
                                                                        principals, ensured the
                                                                        work of the project was
                                                                        shared at a national level.
                                                                        In addition, by contracting
                                                                        colleges and universities
                                                                        across the nation to
                                                                        develop the training
                                                                        modules, capacity was
                                                                        enhanced and the project
                                                                        outputs were given more
                                                                        extensive publicity.
                                                                        Further national coverage
                                                                        was associated with TV
                                                                        broadcasts, as explained in
                                                                        B5.
B4: Capacity  Capacity building for TTI  43 selected for 2003-2005;     Numbers fell well below
Building in   lecturers and DoET/BoET    33 selected for 2004-2006.     the target, even though
TTIs and in   managers through           73 candidates graduated        recruitment extended to
DoETs         domestic Masters Degrees   from Hanoi TTC or HCMC         TTIs, DoETs, BoETs and
              (N = 150)                  TTC and produced theses on     schools. Observations of
                                         topics relevant to the         theses and analysis of their
                                         reforms introduced by the      titles indicated high quality
                                         project.                       and appropriate relevance.
              Capacity building for TTI  Only 4 applications received   The project was slow to act
              lecturers and DoET         so the overseas Masters        on this initially and then
              managers through           program did not proceed. At    Government approval was
              Overseas Masters Degrees   a late stage in the project, a protracted and cautious.
              (N = 56)                   substitution was made to       Hence this training only
                                         allow one month of             occurred within the last
                                         structured overseas training   months of the project and
                                         on education management        its impact could not be
                                         and on new teaching            monitored within the
                                         methods for 343 persons in     project.
                                         Canada (3 groups), Australia
                                         (3 groups) and New Zealand
                                         (8 groups)
              Equipment packages         Equipment packages were        This equipment contributed
              provided for TTIs,         provided for all TTIs.         to the full program of the
              including equipment to     Campus observations            TTIs, as was intended.
              train primary teachers to  indicated computers in high
              teach music, art, IT and   demand, appropriate use of
              physical education         music and art equipment,
                                         and least use of the more
                                         sophisticated PE equipment


                                            33

                                            and electronic sewing
                                            machines.
                 Refurbishment and          Resource Centers were         Field visits during
                 equipment for District     refurbished and equipment     supervision missions
                 Resource Centers (N= 93,   provided and well used.       revealed mostly highly
                 later 107) to facilitate   Earlier delivery would have   effective Resource Centers
                 delivery of training and   enhanced training programs    in operation, but with a few
                 provide access to modules  held at these venues.         exceptions.
                 and materials
B5: In-service   Managers and teacher       From selected in-service      Reactions to the telecasts
Training         trainers will plan for     modules, 154 television       have been very positive,
through          delivery of modules        programs were produced and    including among parents as
Distance         through distance education 50 have been telecast on      well as teachers. Resource
Education        where required.            VTV2 on two occasions in      Centers have the capacity
                                            the week. Times of            to record programs and
                                            broadcast have sometimes      distribute them to teachers
                                            been unsuitable and           unable to see the original
                                            provinces are negotiating for telecasts because of poor
                                            different options in the      reception or unsuitable
                                            future.                       scheduling.
B6: Printing     Following rigorous trial   Some 52 books from 28         Copyright has been
and Distribution and review, sufficient     modules have been             transferred to MoET and
of Modules       materials will be mass     published, along with 306     originals reside with the
($0.33 million)  produced and distributed.  videos. In all, 2,737,890     Department of Information
                                            units of print and video      and Communications.
                                            materials have been mass      MoET has additionally
                                            produced using project        funded the mass production
                                            funds. Other materials,       and distribution of modules
                                            including DH modules for      related to the new
                                            University level, have been   curriculum to all provinces.
                                            copied but not mass
                                            produced.
                                            See details in Annex 2,
                                            addendum 2.3.
                 Future access to materials All materials have been       This is a further example of
                                            stored electronically in      the capacity of the project
                                            DVDs and will be accessible   to be applied at a system-
                                            on the MoET website.          wide level.

Component C: Quality Assurance ($3.67 million)
C: Quality       Develop a shared           Following initial work in     Quality assurance was a
Assurance        understanding of quality   other components, a QA        new concept at the start of
Coordination     assurance (QA) among       framework was developed       the project but was well
($0.95 million)  managers and educators     and applied to developments   understood and widely
                 involved in the project;   across the whole project      applied by the end of the
                 develop a comprehensive    through workshops, training   project.
                 framework for QA and       and collaborative working.
                 work with other
                 component teams to assure
                 quality in outputs.
C1: Personnel    Develop a Professional     The PDIS was developed,       The PDIS is relatively
Management       Development Information    improved through 3 versions   sophisticated in its design
Information      System (PDIS) to map       based on trials and           functions but user friendly
System ($0.72    professional standards and workshops, and used to store  so that 50 officers at DoET
million)         professional development   information on 58,361         levels, 318 at BoET levels



                                               34

                 courses undertaken by        primary teachers from the 10   and 2,198 principals have
                 primary teachers             target provinces. Software     been trained in its use.
                                              development included           There are several other
                                              options for provinces to       parallel developments in
                                              analyze the data for planning  management information
                                              and policy decisions.          systems within MoET
                                              Copyright has been handed      (e.g., a PMIS supported by
                                              to the Teachers'               the European Commission,
                                              Management Department          District FSQL Analysis
                                              within the Department of       (DFA) under the PEDC)
                                              Personnel and Organization.    and the challenge is to
                                                                             integrate these systems into
                                                                             a comprehensive EMIS.
C2: Teacher      Link the Teacher             The PDIS included data on      The Teachers' Titles
classification   Professional Standards       Teachers' Titles as well as    developed under
($0.55 million)  (under Component A) to       on Professional Standards      Component D were
                 Teachers' Titles (under      and Component C worked         promulgated through the
                 Component D) so that         with Components A and D        Ministry of Home Affairs
                 teachers' career             to integrate the two concepts  (MoHA) before the final
                 progression depends on       using extensive research and   version of the Professional
                 qualifications plus          consultation. Although         Standards (Component A)
                 performance.                 identified as a most desirable had been agreed.
                                              future goal to motivate
                                              teachers towards self
                                              improvement and enhanced
                                              performance, the integration
                                              was not achieved within the
                                              life of the project.
C3:              Develop frameworks for       A QA framework was             Given the challenge of
Accreditation    the accreditation of teacher developed for College level    addressing QA as a
($0.45 million)  training programs offered    training of teachers through   concept, significant
                 by TTIs.                     research, extensive            progress has been made to
                                              consultation, successive trial achieve course
                                              and refinement in which key    accreditation. At the end of
                                              elements were identified,      the project, all 10 TTIs had
                                              criteria set, procedures       been self assessed through
                                              established for self and       the procedures and 4 had
                                              external appraisal, and        undergone external
                                              actions were widely            accreditation. Procedures
                                              disseminated. The legal        using a standards-based
                                              entity was specified under     approach to appraisal with
                                              Decision 75/2006 and           evidence-based judgments
                                              submitted to the Department    were well established and a
                                              of Testing and Accreditation   cadre of people trained in
                                              in MoET for promulgation.      accreditation procedures.
C4: Communi-     Assisted by other teams,     Information about the          Initial effort focused on the
cations Strategy develop, prepare and         project and its reforms in     Professional Standards for
($1.00 million)  implement a communi-         teacher development,           Primary Teachers and the
                 cations strategy for the     performance appraisal,         concept achieved wide
                 project aimed at the         professional development       acclaim within the
                 profession, parents and the  and changed conditions of      profession and publicly.
                 public.                      service was widely             Later publicity
                                              disseminated in the            encompassed achievements
                                              professional and public        from all components and
                                              media, and gave rise to        was coordinated through
                                              effective ownership of the     Component D.


                                                  35

                                           reform agenda at a national
                                           level.
Component D: Revision in the Terms of Service for Teachers ($0.50 million)
Terms of      Propose three (3) titles for Based on evidence from         Teachers were highly
Service for   primary teachers related to  survey research and            motivated by this approach
Teachers      qualifications and           extensive consultation with    to a career structure.
              professional standards       authorities and other          However, the titles are not
                                           stakeholders, three titles     yet linked to professional
                                           have been agreed for           standards, as the profile
                                           primary teachers.              was still in draft form when
                                           Successive drafts were         the decision on titles was
                                           refined through trials and     promulgated. Further
                                           workshops and finally          progress will now depend
                                           promulgated by MoHA as         on defining professional
                                           Decision 61/2005.              standards for teachers at
                                                                          other levels of the system.
              Explore forms of teacher     Through extensive              At an early stage of the
              compensation, including      consultations with             project, links to the salary
              links between the salary     authorities and widely         scale were considered too
              scale and performance, and   representative groups,         sensitive for project
              propose changes that will    including unions,              intervention. The outcome
              motivate teachers to         modifications to the salary    is a tribute to project
              continuing professional      scale were proposed and        performance, achieved by
              growth and enhanced          implemented through Joint      extensive consultation and
              performance.                 Circular 81/2005 of the        evidence-based arguments.
                                           Ministry of Home Affairs       The Joint Circular provides
                                           and the Ministry of Finance.   for new salary coefficients
                                                                          linked to increments in the
                                                                          scale, with ceilings set by
                                                                          teachers' titles. Although
                                                                          all 400,000 primary
                                                                          teachers benefitted from
                                                                          adjustments in the salary
                                                                          scale, the teachers who
                                                                          upgraded to College level
                                                                          through the project (almost
                                                                          6,000) were significant
                                                                          beneficiaries.
              Research and review the      Through surveys and other      This work provided an
              current workload of          research, the workload of      evidence-based rationale
              primary teachers, and draft  primary teachers was           for justified changes in
              regulations to meet future   explored, including            defined workloads and led
              needs, including incentives  variations according to        to fairer, revised norms for
              to meet the needs of         school differences (level,     teacher deployment. The
              teachers in challenging      size, location, number of      provision of full-day
              situations and the intention sessions) and class            schooling remains a major
              to move towards full-day     differences (e.g., full day    structural policy priority.
              schooling with an            schooling, multigrade          This issue and its
              enhanced curriculum.         classes, ethnic composition,   implications for teachers'
                                           maternity provision).          workload and
                                           Following extensive            compensation will a central
                                           consultation, the project      focus in a following
                                           recommended changes that       project, School Education
                                           were then implemented          Quality Assurance Project
                                           through Joint Circular         (SEQAP), now under
                                           35/2006, of MoET and           preparation.


                                               36

                                             MoHA.
                Propose new arrangements     Greater autonomy at the        School-based management
                to devolve decision          school level was also          needs to be linked to other
                making, and to give more     explored in the same           initiatives, such as the
                autonomy to principals,      intensive way through          work on Fundamental
                identifying their rights and research on the current        School Quality Levels
                obligations under school-    situation and a series of      (FSQL) and the emphasis
                based management.            workshops exploring            on School Improvement
                                             different options for school-  Plans and provision of
                                             based management. Reports      Campus Support Funds
                                             were produced and              under the PEDC project.
                                             considerable devolution has    Devolution is likely to be
                                             already occurred in some       achieved progressively in
                                             locations. However, no         practice, but needs to be
                                             structural changes were        supported by legal
                                             implemented within the         documentation. SEQAP is
                                             project.                       one potential vehicle to
                                                                            achieve formal ratification.
Component E: Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Planning Capacity ($4.42 million)
Project         Project oversight is to be   The Steering Committee met     The active participation by
oversight       provided by a Steering       on a regular basis, including  senior officers from other
($0.14)         Committee, chaired by a      initial and wrap-up meetings   ministries and MoET
                Vice Minister, with          during each bi-annual          departments was a strategic
                representatives from other   review/supervision mission,    intervention that greatly
                relevant GoV ministries      provided advice, and           assisted immediate
                and from concerned MoET      undertook follow-up actions    problem solving and
                departments.                 as required.                   eventual
                                                                            institutionalization of
                                                                            outputs.
Project         A PCU comprising the         The PCU functioned most
Coordination    Director and Coordinators    effectively, ensured linkages
Unit ($2.05)    for each component           across components,
                provides project oversight   emphasized capacity
                and coordination.            building, and worked closely
                                             with relevant ministries and
                                             MoET departments to ensure
                                             system-wide applicability
                                             and sustainability for project
                                             outputs.
Professional    Professional teams           Professional teams             For example, module
teams ($0.30)   undertake development        functioned effectively for all development teams were
                tasks, assisted by national  components and were            given workshops in
                and international            supported by the PCU           materials development,
                consultants, and assure      through planned capacity       including support materials
                quality for project          building.                      such as videos, and used a
                products.                                                   7-step process to assure
                                                                            quality in development and
                                                                            production.
Provincial and  Provincial (PPCU) and        These teams functioned
district teams  district teams plan, manage  effectively in planning
($0.50)         and evaluate activities at   activities, receiving and
                DoET and BoET levels.        using equipment, delivering
                                             training, organizing all
                                             activities, monitoring
                                             outcomes, maintaining
                                             records, and compiling


                                                37

                                              reports.
Monitoring and   Under an M & E               Following IT training for
Evaluation       framework with clear         managers, appropriate
capacity ($1.11) KPIs, project activities are databases were maintained
                 monitored, databases         and used for planning and
                 maintained, feedback         accountability. Using PDIS
                 provided, and M & E          software, managers were
                 reports compiled.            trained to chart progress and
                                              plan interventions.
                                              Activities were also
                                              subjected to qualitative
                                              evaluation through
                                              interviews and observations.
Preparation and  Well before the end of the   The PCU was proactive in      A summary of institutional
specification of project, the PCU will take   ensuring its work was         change achieved within the
project          steps to plan for the next   relevant to future            life of the project is
expansion        phase, in consultation with  development and, where        provided under section 3.5
($0.32)          senior MoET managers.        possible, was given formal    (b).
                                              legal approval for
                                              promulgation. Some PCU
                                              staff are also involved in
                                              preparation activities for
                                              SEQAP.




                                                 38

                                                            Annex 2, Addendum 2.1
   Summary of Modules and Book Titles Produced for In-service, College Pre-Service Teacher, and Upgrading to College Level Teacher
                                         Training by the Primary Teachers' Development Project (PTDP)


Curriculum     Module    Module name        Corresponding  Pages No. of    Print                 Target Groups
               label    (No. of credits)     book titles         videos   copies
                                                                                  TTC    Up-     Teacher   Manager    University
                                                                                       grading  In-service In-service

Inservice      BD 1   Teaching Grade 1                      200     17     79900                    X          X
training only         under the new
(not part of a        curriculum (7)
formal         BD 2   Teaching Grade 2                      168     17     79900                    X          X
curriculum)           under the new
                      curriculum (7)
               BD 3   Teaching Grade 3                      264     17     68700                    X          X
                      under the new
                      curriculum (7)
               BD 4   Teaching Grade 4                      352     16     94200                    X          X
                      under the new
                      curriculum (12)

               BD 5   Teaching Grade 5                      352     16     94200                    X          X
                      under the new
                      curriculum (12)

               BD 6   Using new teaching                    264     16     68700                    X          X
                      methods in primary
                      schools (10)
               BD 7   Multigrade teaching                   160      4     72900                    X
                      in primary sch. (6)
               BD 8   Teaching                              176      4     71000                    X
                      Vietnamese to
                      students from
                      ethnic minorities (6)
               BD 9   Inclusive Education                   288     10     71000                    X
                      for students with
                      disabilities (8)




                                                                      39

Curriculum     Module    Module name        Corresponding    Pages No. of  Print              Target Groups
               label    (No. of credits)      book titles          videos copies
                                                                                 TTC  Up-    Teacher    Manager    University
                                                                                     grading In-service In-service

               BD10   Managing delivery                      208      11   14200                            X
                      of the new primary
                      curriculum (8)
               BD11   Promoting the                          132       0   86600                            X
                      quality of primary
                      teachers and
                      managers
               BD13   Training on profiles                    148      0   38300                            X
                      and primary
                      education issues for
                      principals and
                      managers
College level  CD1    Child growth and     Human               84      0   94000  X    X
pre-service           development (9)      development
training (12 +
3 equivalent)                              Development of     420      1   52650  X
                                           the primary child

               CD2    Instructional        Instructional      304      6   52650  X
                      psychology,          psychology (6)
                      research on learning
                      and teaching,        Research on         84      0   94000  X    X         X          X         X

                      student assessment   learning and

                      (12)                 teaching (2)

                                           Student            204      2   20790  X    X
                                           assessment 1 (2)

                                           Student            112      0   75500                 X          X
                                           assessment 2 (2)


               CD3    Ethics and teaching                     206       3  52650  X                                   X
                      of ethics (3)




                                                                        40

Curriculum Module    Module name        Corresponding   Pages No. of  Print              Target Groups
           label     (No. of credits)      book titles        videos copies
                                                                            TTC  Up-    Teacher    Manager    University
                                                                                grading In-service In-service

           CD4    Vietnamese           Vietnamese        208       0  23500  X                                   X
                  literature, language literature
                  and its teaching
                  (22)                 Vietnamese        322       0  23500  X                                   X
                                       language

                                       Practical         208       0  23500  X                                   X
                                       Vietnamese
                                       language use

                                       Teaching          298       3  52650  X                                   X
                                       Vietnamese

           CD5    Mathematics and      Theory of         214       0  23500  X                                   X
                  teaching             combination and
                  mathematics in       mathematics
                  schools (14)         logic
                                       Statistics        128       0  23500  X                                   X

                                       Number            178       0  23500  X                                   X

                                       Mathematics       288       4  52650  X                                   X
                                       teaching in
                                       primary schools

           CD6    Physical education   Physical          248       0  23500  X                                   X
                  (12)                 education

                                       Athletics         226       0  23500  X                                   X

                                       Swimming          148       0  23500  X                                   X

                                       Shuttlecock       144       0  23500  X                                   X

                                       Teaching          324       9  52650  X                                   X
                                       physical
                                       education




                                                                   41

Curriculum Module    Module name        Corresponding   Pages No. of  Print              Target Groups
           label    (No. of credits)      book titles         videos copies
                                                                            TTC  Up-    Teacher    Manager    University
                                                                                grading In-service In-service

           CD7    Music and teaching                     324       6  53850  X                                   X
                  music (10)

           CD8    Art and teaching art                   228       6  52950  X                                   X
                  (10)

           CD9    Social sciences and  CD9a1 Social      200       7  52650  X                                   X
                  teaching social      science and its
                  sciences (12)        teaching 1 and

                                       CD9a2 Social      224          52650  X                                   X

                                       science and its
                                       teaching 2 (10)

                                       CD9b              124       2 125900  X    X         X          X         X
                                       Environmental
                                       education (2)

           CD10   Pioneer studies and  Pioneer studies   220       5  35000  X    X                              X
                  extra-curricular     and Children's
                  activities (5)       Star Activities
                                       (3)

                                       Extracurricular    80       0  94000  X    X                              X
                                       activities (2)


           CD11   Instructional        Teaching aids     144       4  94000  X    X         X          X         X
                  technology,          and IT in
                  teaching aids and    primary schools
                  teaching handicraft  1
                  (10)
                                       Teaching aids      96       0  94000  X    X         X          X         X
                                       and IT in
                                       primary schools
                                       2




                                                                   42

Curriculum     Module   Module name        Corresponding    Pages No. of  Print              Target Groups
               label    (No. of credits)     book titles          videos copies
                                                                                TTC  Up-    Teacher    Manager    University
                                                                                    grading In-service In-service

                                          Handicraft and     350       4  52650  X                                   X
                                          teaching
                                          handicraft in
                                          primary schools
               CD12   Teaching methods    Guidance for        72       5  23500  X                                   X
                      and the practice of teaching practice
                      teaching (16)       (10)

                                          Practicum (6)      256       0  23500  X                                   X

Upgrading      CH1    CH1a Mathematics    Mathematics and    292       4  13110       X
curriculum to         (5)                 teaching
reach College                             mathematics in
level training                            primary schools
                      CH2a Nature of      Nature of society  212       3  13110       X
                      Society (3)         and teaching
                                          social studies in
                                          primary schools
               CH2    CH2a Vietnamese     Vietnamese         328       6  13110       X
                      language (6)        language and
                                          teaching
                                          Vietnamese
                      CH2b Ethics (2)     Ethics and         144       2  71000       X
                                          teaching ethics

               CH3    CH3a Physical       Physical           288       5  13110       X
                      education (6)       education and
                                          teaching physical
                                          education

                      CH3b Handicraft     Handicraft, IT     232       2  13110       X
                      and Technology (2)  and teaching in
                                          primary




                                                                       43

Curriculum   Module       Module name       Corresponding   Pages     No. of      Print                          Target Groups
              label      (No. of credits)     book titles             videos     copies
                                                                                             TTC       Up-      Teacher   Manager    University
                                                                                                     grading   In-service In-service

             CH4       CH4a Art (2)        Art and teaching   132            4    87300                X           X
                                           art in primary

                       CH4b Music (2)      Music and            64           2    87300                X           X
                                           teaching Music
                                           in primary

University   See separate table in Annex 2
level pre-
service
training
(12+4)

Upgrading    Decision No. 39/2006/QD-BGDDT. Comprising 61 credit points from a possible 70, allowing some options.
from College
level to
University
level




                                                                            44

                            Annex 2, Addendum 2.2: Person-Modules Delivered Through School Based Training

Province         Target group         BD1  BD2  BD3  BD6  BD8   BD9   BD10   BD11 BD13 CD2a CD2b   CD9b CD11b CH4a, b BD4, 5
  Vinh Phuc  Key teachers in 2005-06              43   66          45                           45    45
                Principals, managers             440  440         440   440         411       440    440  440           440
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            1606 1606       1606                    1606  1606  1606  1606 1606    1606
                     Teachers < 2005  1502 1502
  Ninh Binh     Key teachers in 2005              43   66          39                           39    39
                Principals, managers             344  344         342   342         316       344    344  342           342
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            1375 1375       1375                    1375  1375  1375  1375 1375    1375
                     Teachers < 2005  1286 1286
  Hai Phong     Key teachers in 2005              46   69          54                           54    54
                Principals, managers             545  545         528   528         484       545    545  528           528
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            2393 2383       2167                    2167  2383  2393  2167         2167
                     Teachers < 2005  2026 2026
     Son La     Key teachers in 2005             102  153          59                           59    59
                Principals, managers             584  584         584   584         549       584    584  584           584
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            2354 2140 2354  2354                          2140  2354  2354 2354    2354
                     Teachers < 2005  2101 2101
Quang Binh      Key teachers in 2005              43   66          48                           48    48
                Principals, managers             512  512         534   534         511       511    511  534           534
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            1157 1158       1155                    1155  1158  1157  1155 1155    1155
                     Teachers < 2005  1080 1080
   TP HCM       Key teachers in 2005             136  204         113                         113    113
   TP HCM       Principals, managers             983  982       1028   1028         954       983    983  1028         1028
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            4452 4455       4466                          4455  4452  4466         4466
                     Teachers < 2005  4176 4176
    Ben Tre     Key teachers in 2005              44   67          45                           45    45
                Principals, managers             412  412         412   412         402       412    412  412           412
            Principals, managers, <05
               Teachers in 2005-2006            1745 1760       1760                          1760  1745  1760 1760    1760
                     Teachers < 2005  1646 1646




                                                                45

   Province                Target group         BD1    BD2     BD3   BD6  BD8 BD9   BD10 BD11    BD13 CD2a CD2b         CD9b CD11b CH4a, b       BD4, 5
       Phu Yen            Key teachers in 2005                    47  72        15                                 39      39
                          Principals, managers                  368   408       368   368          339            408     408      368               368
                    Principals, managers, <05
                        Teachers in 2005-2006                   1540 1540                                 1540   1540    1540     1540     1540     1540
                               Teachers < 2005  1440   1440
      Kon Tum             Key teachers in 2005                    52  77        34                                 34      34
                          Principals, managers                  281   281       290   290          261            280     280      290               290
                    Principals, managers, <05
                        Teachers in 2005-2006                   530   530 528   528                        528    530     530      528      528      528
                               Teachers < 2005   495    495
    Binh Phuoc            Key teachers in 2005                    46  69        34                                 34      34
                          Principals, managers                  322   322       322   322          296            322     322      322               322
                    Principals, managers, <05
                        Teachers in 2005-2006                   1380 1380      1364                       1364   1380    1380     1364     1364     1364
                               Teachers < 2005  1290   1290
Key teachers in non-project provinces                                           56
Key teachers trained in 2006                                              127   542   134          835     589                    1043     695,
                                                                                                                                            623
Training for principals across all 10 provinces                                           2410
                                          Total
                                                                                                            As at May 2007, grand total = 273,616
                                                                          Module Titles
  Code                                            Title                            Code                                   Title
  BD1         Teaching Gd 1 under the new curriculum                               BD11  Promoting quality of primary teachers and education managers
  BD2         Teaching Gd 2 under the new curriculum                               CD2b  Student assessment
  BD3         Teaching Gd 3 under the new curriculum                               CD9b  Environmental education
  BD6         Using new teaching methods in primary schools                       CD11b  Teaching aids and IT in Primary Teaching
  BD9         Inclusive Education for students with disabilities                   CH4a  Art and teaching Art
                                                                                   CH4b  Music and teaching Music




                                                                              46

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
  (including assumptions in the analysis)




                   1

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

          Names                      Title              Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Christopher Shaw      Lead Education Specialist        EASHD Task Team Leader
Christopher Thomas    Education Sector Manager         EASHD Team member
Mai Thi Thanh         Senior Operations Officer        EASHD Team member
Carol H.L Chen Ball   Senior Operations Officer        EASHD Procurement

Behdad Nowroozi       Senior Financial Management      EAPCO Financial
                      Specialist                             management
Hoi-Chan Nguyen       Senior Counsel                   LEGES Legal
Kathy Li Tow Ngow     Senior Program Assistant         AFCF2 Team member
Nguyen Hoai Linh      Operations Analyst               EACVF Team member
Steve Passingham      Senior Education Advisor          DFID Co-financier
Lindy Cameron         Governance Advisor                DFID Co-financier
Peter Owen            Senior Governance Advisor         DFID Co-financier
Michael Schultz       Senior Social Development Advisor DFID Co-financier
Peter Balacs          Senior Economic Advisor           DFID Co-financier
Samya Beidas          Economist                         DFID Co-financier
Bernadette Robinson   Consultant                             Teacher education

Neil Baumgart         Consultant                             Teacher
                                                             management

Michael Boesen        Consultant                             Survey/Data
                                                             specialist
Quentin Thompson      Consultant                             Education systems
Kathryn Riley         Consultant                             Education
Stephan Nachuk        Consultant                             Institutional
Supervision/ICR
Christopher Shaw      Lead Education Specialist        EASHD Task Team Leader
Mai Thi Thanh         Senior Operations Officer        EASHD Team leader
Carol Chen Ball       Senior Operations Officer        EASHD Team member
Luis Benveniste       Country Sector Coordinator       EASHD Team member

Emanuela Di Gropello  Senior Human Development
                      Economist                        EASHD Team member

Linh Van Nguyen       Program Assistant                EAPCO Team member
Linh Hoai Nguyen      Coordinator                      EACVF Team member
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan   E T Consultant                   EAPCO Team member
Hiet Thi Hong Tran    Procurement Spec.                EAPCO Team member
Thong Quang Tran      Financial Management Specialis   EAPCO Team member




                                       2

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                           40.33
  FY99                                                          152.29
  FY00                                 74                       202.77
  FY01                                 27                        35.80
  FY02                                 13                        48.86
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:        114                       480.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                   9                       14.18
  FY03                                 23                        51.86
  FY04                                 18                        47.32
  FY05                                 18                        61.48
  FY06                                 15                        34.70
  FY07                                 11                        31.60
  FY08                                   1                        5.73
                        Total:         95                       246.87




                                     3

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Sample and Instrument
A beneficiary survey collected data across the 10 target provinces. The sample targeted 250
schools (5 schools in each of 5 districts in each of 10 provinces). For each school, a questionnaire
was completed by 2 managers and 10 teachers (who had completed at least 3 modules). Within
each province, other people surveyed included key teachers, DoET managers (3 per DoET),
BoET managers (2 per BoET), TTI managers and lecturers (10 per TTI), and final year TTI
students (30 per TTI for the 8 TTIs with final year students).
The survey yielded very positive conclusions from provincial, district and school levels with
highly favorable ratings provided to questions on all PTDP activities. However, in spite of
elaborate measures to develop and trial the survey instrument, the findings are limited by the
response codes used in the Likert-type questions. Only three responses were offered which, when
translated to English, are: "Extremely suitable (useful, easy, ...etc)"; "suitable (useful, easy,
...etc)"; and "not suitable (useful, easy, ... etc) at all". The descriptors for these response codes
hardly approximate an interval scale, since there is a quantum change from "suitable" to "not
suitable at all". However, very few respondents opted for the last category so the scales
effectively degenerated into just two categories. There was some discrimination across items on
a topic allowing identification of the more favored items, but statistical analysis of the results was
limited for this reason. The research team used Microsoft Access to analyze responses of
different groups to items under the key topics of: Professional Standards; module development;
delivery of modules in in-service training; accreditation of teacher training courses; equipment
and facilities provided by the project; the PDIS; findings from the study on decentralization for
school principals; coordination and communication; and extension to other provinces. In the
summary below, broad conclusions are summarized. As a secondary analysis for this ICR, data
on the Professional Standards and on the modules for the teacher sample only (N = 2,500
approximately) have been transferred to SPSS, scales formed where appropriate, and
relationships to background characteristics of respondents explored and reported.

Professional Standards

A sample of over 2,500 teachers who had participated in the work on Professional Standards (or
the Profile) was asked give their opinions on four aspects of the 15 requirements on a 3-point
scale: how essential they were; how suitable; how easy to understand; and how easy to apply.
The pattern of results was very similar across the four questions so only the last one is shown.

      100%


       80%


       60%


       40%


       20%


         0%
               1    2    3    4     5    6     7     8      9  10   11   12    13   14   15
                Very easy                       Easy                       Very difficult


Figure A5.1 Distribution of teachers' responses on how easy it was to apply profile requirements




                                                    4

Figure A5.1 shows that some requirements, and numbers 9 and 10 in particular, were rated as
more difficult than others. Requirement 9 included knowledge of aspects of inclusive education,
the use of visual aids in teaching, and at high levels, aspects of information technology and
foreign languages. Requirement 10 included knowledge of the society, local culture, economic
and political developments, and at higher levels, the impact of local customs and other
community influences on students' learning.

It was possible to form scales with high reliability (0.8 to 0.9) by adding teachers' responses over
the 15 requirements. When the scales were related to gender, age, and province, it was found that
· there were only slight differences, with female teachers giving slightly higher ratings for
    suitability and male teachers giving slightly higher ratings for easy to understand;
· there was no relationship with teachers' ages and the ratings they gave; and
· there were some differences across provinces, as summarized in Figure A5.2 for the scale
    "easy to understand" requirements.


                      50




                      40
    Easy

        to
          understand

                      30




                      20
                        N =  250  250  265   280    250    250   250   250   250    250

                            HCMC     Ben Tre     Binh Phuc    Vinh Phuc   Quang Binh

                                Son La     Ninh Binh   Hai Phuong    Phu Yen     Kon Tum


                                                Province

Figure A5.2 Box and whisker plot for "easy to understand" requirements.
(Note: The middle 50% of cases fall in the "box"; the median is shown by horizontal line)

The survey showed that a very high proportion of teachers and managers considered that the
Professional Standards could be used to assess the professional capacity of teachers and to
identify training needs. Primary teachers were very confident (97% agreeing) that they could also
self assess their performance using the standards.
Module development and module upgrading
The biggest activity of the Project was developing modules and delivering in-service training to
teachers using these modules. In general, the modules were viewed very positively by teachers.
Table A5.1 provides a summary of ratings given to modules used in the 10 provinces. Some
modules were designated as core modules and others as electives, chosen by the province. Hence


                                                             5

the numbers rating the modules differed. The scale used to compute the means in the table was a
3 point scale (3 = very up-to date (very easy to understand, very easy to apply; very suitable); 2 =
up-to-date (easy to understand; easy to apply; suitable); and 1 = NOT up-to-date (Not easy to
understand; NOT easy to apply; NOT suitable). Very few responses assigned the NOT rating.
On the other hand, many more teachers used the 2 rating rather than 3. This can be interpreted as
a weakness of the rating scale but the relative average scores still give some indication of
differences in ratings among the modules. By far the most common rating (median) in every case
was 2.
Table A5.1 Average Ratings Given to Modules by Teachers
  Module               Module topic          Approx                   Average rating for
    code                                     No. of     Up to       Easy to      Easy to  Suitability
                                             raters     date      understand      apply
  M.BD1        Teaching the new Grade 1      1910       2.35         2.15         2.11       2.15
               curriculum
  M.BD2        Teaching the new Grade 2      1981       2.34         2.14         2.11       2.15
               curriculum
  M.BD3        Teaching the new Grade 3      1337       2.30         2.08         2.07       2.12
               curriculum
  M.BD4        Teaching the new Grade 4      1826       2.32         2.13         2.10       2.14
               curriculum
  M.BD5        Teaching the new Grade 5       900       2.32         2.09         2.07       2.13
               curriculum
  M.BD6        New teaching methods          1895       2.35          2.12        2.11       2.16
  M.BD8        Teaching Vietnamese to         464       2.18         2.05         2.00       2.08
               ethnic minority students
  M.BD9        Inclusive education for       1365       2.16         2.01         1.91       2.05
               students with disabilities
  M.BD10       Managing the delivery of        58       2.10         2.04         2.02       2.09
               the new curriculum
  M.BD11       Promoting the quality of       407       2.14         2.00         1.89       2.07
               primary teachers, managers
  M.BD13       Training on profiles and        30       2.11         2.00         2.04       2.04
               primary education issues for
               managers
 M.CD2, 2a     Research on learning;         2071       2.31         2.09         2.06       2.13
               student assessment
  M.CD9        Social sciences, including     526       2.22         2.04         1.99       2.08
               environment, and its
               teaching
  M.CD11       IT, teaching aids, handicraft 1493       2.10         2.00         1.82       2.07
 M.CH4a,b      Teaching Art, Music           1932       2.25         2.08         2.03       2.11

There are some variations in ratings on the table. Highest ratings tended to go to M.BD1, M.BD2
and M.BD6. These were the first modules produced by the project. In general, teachers rated
modules somewhat higher on being up-to-date and suitable than they did on "easy to understand"
and "easy to apply". The lowest rating was for M.CD11 on "easy to apply", presumably because
some schools lacked the equipment (computers and aids) needed to apply this module.

Respondents (teachers, managers) expressed satisfaction (95%) with the organization of in-
service training but low satisfaction with some activities, evidently because equipment and print
materials were not always available on time. In terms of difficulties experienced in applying the
modules to their classrooms, teachers mentioned most often an absence of materials (by 69%) and
time constraints (56%). Almost all teachers (98%) reported that they were able to undertake self
study on the modules, and most (85%) followed the self study guidelines from the modules.


                                                  6

Accreditation of training programs
Under Component C, the project developed a system for the accreditation of training programs
for teachers at College level, based on 7 standards. Based on these standards, the TTIs in all 10
provinces went through a process of self accreditation and 4 of them underwent external
accreditation. Almost all teacher training lecturers gave high commendation for the standards set,
with over 90% of respondents assessing them as at least suitable, and 40% rating them as
extremely suitable.
Equipment and Facilities
For facilities and equipment provided by the project, over 90% of responses from DOETs and
BOETs indicated that almost all general equipment had been used widely and that a responsible
person had been assigned to manage these facilities. Within teacher training institutions, the
percentage in favor was higher with almost all providing positive ratings. However, the
percentage of use was low with only about 55% of general facilities in regular use. This is a
matter of concern and was observed as well during visits to TTIs as part of the supervision
missions. This may be another case where more local autonomy in ordering equipment, based on
needs, would lead to more effective use.

Information System

The Professional Development Information System (PDIS) developed by the project received
very high compliments for its usefulness and usage efficiency. Over 95% of respondents
indicated that the PDIS was useful for managers at DoET and BoET levels as well as for
principals and deputy principals. Thus, the PDIS has become an efficient tool for the work of
education management, especially at DoET level, with all respondents answering that they used
information and analysis from the PDIS. At the BoET level, the percentage was lower although
still quite high (83%) while at the school level, only about half of managers reported using the
PDIS. Evidently, more effective use of the PDIS at school level will require additional support
through access to computers, more training and having sufficient personnel to maintain and
update the system.

Recommendations for delegation of management responsibilities to Primary School Principals

Respondents were asked their opinions about the conclusions of a study on the role and
responsibilities for principals, undertaken through Component D. Over 90% principals and vice
principals questioned responded in favor of greater delegation of management responsibilities
along the lines recommended by the project's study. However, there were differences in opinions
between provinces on the extent and coverage of delegations. In can be expected that schools
will be at different stages of readiness to take on responsibilities and these matters will need re-
visiting in the context of a phased approach to school-based management.

Coordination and communication

Respondents indicated that a major reason that the project had achieved positive results and
outcomes in its various activities was a well organized implementation action plan, assisted by
close coordination of activities across different levels in the system, from central to local. During
the implementation of project activities, the PCU and PPCUs had been very flexible in altering
times, content and participants to achieve the highest efficiency possible. Over 75% of persons
questioned believed that the project activities had been organized flexibly, and a further 15%
rated the organization as extremely flexible. A strong point of the project in organizing
implementation activities was the degree of support offered to the local level, thus creating good
conditions for provinces to implement their activities. Such support not only brought a positive
impact but enhanced the capacity of provinces. Management authorities at provincial level gave



                                                   7

high praise for the support received from the project, with 75% of opinions indicating that the
support met requirements but a further 20% rating the support are extremely good. One
indispensable part in the success of the project is an effective management system, encompassing
areas such as planning, implementation instructions, two-way information exchange, monitoring
and evaluation. Ratings on this type of coordination were very high with 60% rating it very
effective and a further 37% as effective. The project's communication strategy was perceived as
helping to strengthen knowledge about the project's objectives, to improve awareness of related
activities and especially to identify those who would be beneficiaries under the project. The
communication strategy had been implemented through extensive coverage in the public media
including radio stations, TV networks, and newspapers as well as to the profession through
conferences at central and local levels and professional journals. The success of this
communications strategy was well recognized in the ratings given for knowledge gained about
the project through publicity (85% of primary teachers and over 90% of managers and TTI staff).

Conclusions

The above results provided strong evidence that the Project was well organized and effective, that
it brought useful results for beneficiaries, that it was a strong influence in enhancing capacity of
primary teachers and primary education managers, and that it achieved its planned objectives and
targets. This conclusion was confirmed by most participants and beneficiaries with over 85% of
respondents agreeing that it was essential to duplicate the project activities in the remaining
provinces throughout the country.




                                                     8

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was held at the central level on October 25-26, 2007. Participants
included project management and coordinators, representatives from all 10 provinces including a
mix of DoET and MoET managers, TTI heads and lecturers, and principals. The Project Steering
Committee was well represented and the workshop was opened by the Vice Minister (Chair of the
Steering Committee) who also gave her evaluative summary at the end. The Project Director
presented a summary of the borrower's ICR Report. In addition, discussions were held among
central managers, coordinators and consultants; provincial/district managers and TTI
representatives; and school heads. Conclusions were then presented in a plenary session.

Some participants who had joined the overseas training in Canada, Australia and New Zealand
showed video clips they had produced after returning to Vietnam in which they modeled best
classroom practice based on their observations and study abroad.

The borrower's ICR Report (see Annex 7) documented project activities and provided an
evidence-based evaluation of outputs and achievements, relative to development objectives. In
addition, considerable attention was paid to project impact and to lessons learned. Future plans
were also discussed whereby project impact could be sustained and outputs mainstreamed
through MoET departments and through plans for a further project.

The project is also planning separate stakeholder workshops at a provincial level during
November.




                                                 9

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MOET had reviewed the draft ICR and appreciated its comprehensiveness. The description of
the project design and implementation is accurate. The analysis of the project performance, the
strengths and weaknesses and lessons learnt for the future are clear and based on evidence. In
general the ICR team's assessment of the project outcomes and implementation performance is
shared by MOET. MOET also sent several additional project outputs which had been approved
and promulgated or implemented after the project closed such as: (i) the regulation for primary
teacher training program accreditation; (ii) transfer of copyrights of all print and audio/video
materials to MOET for nation-wide use; (iii) posting of these print and audio/video materials on
the MOET website (http://moet.gov.vn and http://ebook.edu.vn) for public access; and (iv)
broadcasting of 104 teacher training programs on VTV2.




                                                 10

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

DFID Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report

PTDP has emerged as a model of the strategic potential of projects to innovate reform and policy
change. It is a good example of how a well-focused and innovative project, targeting only 10 of
64 provinces, can have a catalytic impact on national education policy and more broadly on
public sector reform. Based on the evidence of previous supervision missions and this internal
completion assessment, DFID has rated the project as a good performer for internal reporting
purposes.

Four areas which stand out among the achievements of the PTDP are:

1  The project's success in delivering a comprehensive reform around primary teacher standards
   and assessment and a teacher training programme to support the delivery of the new primary
   curriculum. PTDP's legacy lies in institutional reform and innovation, "soft" areas where
   change is typically hard and slow. PTDP is to be commended for delivery of reform with
   system-wide impact in a relatively short-time period.    The promulgation of different legal
   documents, including the primary teacher standards and circular on teacher workload norms,
   and approval and accreditation of the teacher training programme lay the foundation for
   national up-take of project outputs with system-wide impact.

2. Delivery of the primary teacher profile, Vietnam's first performance-based assessment
   framework in the public sector. The primary teacher's profile enjoys national recognition as a
   model of a rigorous appraisal framework, reflected in its adoption into national policy
   (promulgation of the Primary Teacher Professional Standard, May 2007) and homegrown
   requests within MOET to adapt and roll it out across pre-school and lower-secondary levels.
   This demonstrates MOET's commitment to moving to a system-wide approach to teacher
   development and assessment, based on comparative tools for appraisal, promotion and
   ultimately renumeration.

3. Delivery of an effective communication strategy to build broad-based support for the teacher
   assessment reform agenda. The high priority accorded by PTDP to a national communication
   and consultation process was catalytic in a) building understanding and acceptance of new
   concepts of teacher accreditation and b) defusing resistance to performance-based
   management. Targeting multiple stakeholders, including media, professional bodies, parents
   and higher authorities was fundamental in promoting a reform which is widely owned. The
   success of the communication strategy is a tribute to project leadership and its anticipation of
   the importance of communication and building strategic alliances. It provides valuable
   lessons for introducing and building consensus for subsequent education reforms.

4. Responsiveness to new opportunities and a changing environment.            PTDP seized the
   opportunity of the new primary curriculum reform to undertake a comprehensive review and
   revision of both the pre and in-service primary teacher training curricula. This exceeded the
   original project scope resulting in delivery of more a demand-driven and relevant primary
   teacher training programme.

The end of the project is a turning point for MOET and the Government to show continued
commitment to project outputs and ensure their impact is sustained beyond the life of PTDP. The
adoption of many of the outputs into the legal and policy framework for education signals this



                                               11

commitment and paves the way for future up-take and impact.          Three areas where continued
MOET input will be critical to maximize sustainability are:

    · Resourcing the national roll out of the primary teacher standards and their application
        across the education system and teaching force as foreseen in projects Key Indicators
        (page 2);
    · Resourcing the national up-take and printing of primary teacher training modules and
        their delivery in pre-service and predominantly in-service training programmes;
    · Capitalizing on the success of the reform in primary teacher assessment to:
            o generate a move to performance-based management within the education sector
                as a whole;
            o build support for a move to performance based management of public officials as
                part of the wider public administration reform process.

The end of the project is also the moment to assess how the project's quality focus has impacted
on changes in teaching in the classroom and learning outcomes for students.

The ICR provides strong evidence of PTDP's contribution to the teacher reform agenda. The ICR
would benefit from a stronger focus on quantifying and demonstrating the impacts of training
components as a signal to MOET of where future attention will be needed to support on-going
quality improvement and the cost effectiveness of this largest spending component:
    · Measuring the coverage of the training programme and impacts on the teaching capacity
        of teachers and teacher trainers as measured against baseline data. The beneficiary
        surveys (section 3.6) provide a useful snapshot of positive change that has occurred in the
        classroom. It would be useful to quantify this further against control groups and how the
        extent of change compares with good practice elsewhere.
    · Quantifying the coverage of the pre and in-service training programmes beyond the 10
        project provinces to demonstrate the reach of PTDP beyond pilot provinces.
    · Measuring the quality of the training modules against demand by teachers, school
        managers and BOETS, TTIs and potential project clients such as Primary Education for
        Disadvantaged Children Project (PEDC), also cofinanced by World Bank, DFID and
        other donors.
    · Quantifying the finding (Annex 2, B3) of significant variations in quality, scope and
        relevance of training modules and identifying where further material development may
        be required.
    · Quantifying the extent of capacity building of TTIs as major beneficiaries of the PTDP
        and drawing lessons regarding low up-take of equipment and the sustainability of
        equipment and 107 district resource centres.

Improvements in teacher quality take time to translate into changes in learning outcomes. The
Grade 5 Learning Assessment 2007 will be an important tool for analysing the extent of impact of
PTDP in participating schools from the 2001 baseline. In view of the time to demonstrate
impacts, a follow up evaluation of PTDP in 2009 would be useful. Synthesizing key lessons of
PTDP into good practice notes should also be considered as outputs for regional and international
learning ­ the teacher competency experience would be particularly valuable. DFID is ready to
continue to support MOET to accelerate the roll out of teacher quality through on-going
programmes (PEDC, TBS for EFA etc) and future programmes.




                                                12

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The Government of Vietnam, Country Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy, 2003

The Government of Vietnam, 2006-2010 Socio-Economic Development Plan

Ingvarson, L. & Rowe, K. (2007). "Conceptualising and Evaluating Teacher Quality: Substantive
and Methodological Issues". Paper presented at the Economics of Teacher Quality Conference,
Australian National University, 5 February 2007

MOET, The Education Development Strategy 2001-2010.

MOET, The National Action Plan for Education For All, 2003 ­ 2015.

MOET, Study of Grade 5 student achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese Reading in 2007
(forthcoming)

Project Financial audits 2003-2007.

World Bank, 2002. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of
USD19.9 million to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for the Primary Teacher Development
Project, Report No: 20276-VN.

World Bank, 2002. Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
and the International Development Association for support of the Primary Teacher Development
Project.

World Bank 2002. Grant Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the
International Development Association for support of the Primary Teacher Development Project.

World Bank, 2002 ­ 2007, "Aide-memoire" of joint World Bank/DFID supervision missions.

World Bank, 2002 ­ 2007, Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports, sequence
1-10.

World Bank, 2004. Study of Grade 5 Student Achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese
Reading.

World Bank, 2006, World Development Report.

World Bank, 2007, Vietnam Development Report.




                                              13

