Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c1e. 2Z 06 - U
Repcert No. 8921-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
DECEMBER 3, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a resticted dibon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmce of
their officiual duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authrzaion.



UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
ZMay 1, 1990)
Currency Unit       -        Uganda Shilling (U Sh)
US$1.00             =         U Sh 400
U Sh 1.00           -         US$0.0025
SDR 1.00            =        US$1.38
FISCAL YEAR
Government, NWSC              July 1 to June 30
KCC                           October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MFASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND AC'ONYMS
AfDB      =    African Development Bank
DANIDA    =    Danish International Development Agency
EDF       =    European Development Fund
EEC       =    European Economic Community
ERP       =    Economic Recovery Program
GOU       =    Government of the Republic of Uganda
GTZ       =    Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IPA       =    Institute of Public Administration
KCC       =    Kampala City Council
LALF      =    Local Authorities Loan Fund
LCB       =    Local Competitive Bidding
LGRC      =    Local Government Resource Center
MEP       =    Ministry of Environment Protection
MLG       =    Ministry of Local Government
MOHUD     =    Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MPED      8    Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
NDF       =    Nordic Development Fund
MWMD      =    Ministry of Water and Mineral Development
NWSC      =    National Water and Sewerage Corporation
PCU       =    Project Coordination Unit
PPD       =    Physical Planning Department
RDC       =    Reconstruction & Development Corporation
RDP       =    Rehabilitation & Development Program
RWSG      -    Regional Water and Sanitation Group (Nairobi)
TID       =    Training and Institution Development
ULC       =    Uganda Land Commission
UNCHS     =    United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Program
UTB       =    Uganda Tender Board
WHO       -    World Health Organization
WDD       =    Water Development Department



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   . . . . ... .                   i-i
I.       COUNMRY BACKGROUND
A. Geography, Climate, Population, Resources               . . . . . . . .   1
B. Economic Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.      THE URBAN SECTOR
A. National Context to Urban Development   . . . . . . . . . . .   3
B. Current Urban Conditions    . ...................   .   4
C. Government Strategy for the Urban Sector    . . . . . . . . .   8
D. Previous Sector Activities             ..        ........  ......    9
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . .  ..   .. 10
III.     THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Preparation    . . . .11
B. Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    . 11
C. Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 . . . . 12
D. CostsFnni     . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .17
E. Financing   . . . . . . . . . ....... . . . . . . .    . . 19
IV.      PROJT I- PLEM1NTATION
A. Th%. Borrower and On-Lending Arrangements    . . .                  .   . .20
B. Institutional Arrangements for Implementation   . . . . .   . .21
C. Procurement        . . . . . . . . . . , . .  .          .  .   . . .   . .21
D. Disbursement              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              .   . 23
E. Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . .   .   .                  . .24
F. Land Acquisition and Plot Allocations   . . . . . . . . .   . .24
G. P:oject Monitoring, Accounting and Auditing  . . . . . .   . .25
V.       ANALYSIS OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Kampala City Council    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .26
B. Ministry of Local Government    . . . . . .   . . . . . .  .   . .30
C. Physical Planning Department    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .30
D. Institute of Public Administration.   . .                        . . . . .31
E. Project Coordination Unit..  . .  . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .32
This report Is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission consisting of Mr. R. seardmore
(Task Manager), Me. Hayley Corts (Senior Economist), Meere. S. di Zitti (Urban
Planner/Consultant), F. Fisher (Institutional Development Specialist/Consultant), S. Keith
(Property Tax Speciois t/ Consultant), S. Jacobi (Water Speteltiet, RASO Nairobi) and K.
Kuhlmann-Caplto (Financial Analyst/Consultant - OTZ) who vi ... ed Uganda In may 10. Mr S.
Shantaram was responsible for report procssing. The prinecpal reviewrs were Messrs. C.E.
Madavo (Diroctor, Eastern Africa Department), F. Loethem (Project Advisor, AF2), Jonathan C. Brown
(Division Chief, AF2 Infrastructure Operations Division), and J. Wright (Lead Advisor, INURD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
A. Psst and Present Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . .   33
B. Recent Improvements in General Accounting . . . .  . . . . . 37
C. Financial Forecasts. . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . .    37
D. Project Cost Recovery.   . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .   39
S. Affordability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Primary Project Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
B. Economic and Other Benefits  .. . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  44
C. Impact on Women  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
D. Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
E. Community Participation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
F.  Project  Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  48
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Actions Already Taken  . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .  49
B. Agreements Reached during Negotiations   . . . . . . . . . .  49
C. Recommendation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
ANNEXES
1 - Kampala Urban Markets Rehabilitation Program
2 - Rehabilitation of Kampala's Refuse Collection and Disposal System
3 - Kampala Street Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
4 - Strengthening Urban Investment Planning Capacity
5 - Provision of Serviced Residential Land
6 - Rehabilitation of Valuation and Rating in Kampala
7 - Institutional Development of Local Government Bodies
8 - Terms of Reference for Key Technical Assistance Personnel
9 - Rural Water Supply Project Preparation Activities
10 - Details of Procurement Methods
11 - Schedule of IDA Disbursements
12 - Project Implementation Schedule
13 - Project Supervision Plan
14 - KCC's Past and Projected Financial Performance
15 - Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
16 - Selected Documents in Project File
CHARTS
1 - KCC: Organization Chart
2 - PCUt Organization Chart
MAP:        IBRD No. 22472



UGAJDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowers         The Republic of Uganda
implementing      rampala City Council (MCC)
Agencies and      Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
Beneficiaries:    Physical Planning Department (PPD) of Ministry of
Housing & Urban Development
Institute of Public Administration (IPA)
Credit Amount:    SDR 20.7 million (US$28.7 million)
Credit Terms:     Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
On-lendint        Proceeds to KCC in the form of i) a grant of US$4.5 million
Term:s            and ii) a loan of US$21.2 million at 2Z interest rate to be
repaid over 25 years, including five years grace.
Proiect           The proposed Project would support the Government's efforts
Descriptiont       to decentralize the responsibility for the planning, design
and management of urban services to local authorities while
assisting with reconstruction of the country after a period
of political instability, social strife and physical
destruction. The Project would achieve the following
objectives: i) improve living conditions and alleviate
poverty in Kampala by restoring key infrastructure
services; ii) support the development of decentralized
local urban management by strengthening the revenue base,
financial management and technical capacities of XCC and by
improving the ability of central government to assist local
authorities to increase their revenue base and strengthen
financial management; iii) strengthen the country's
capacity to manage the process of urban land development;
and iv) promote sound cost recovery policies and practices.
The Project includes support for: i) the rehabilitation of
urban markets, streets and drains, refuse collection and
disposal; ii) the servicing of land for residential
development; iii) the preparation of up-to-date mapping and
a strategic urban development plan for Kampala; and iv)
technical assistance and training for MCC, MLG and PPD
staff.
Proiect Risks:    The main risks affecting the Project concern the
effectiveness of the two key implmenting agencies, ICC and
MLG, given that they are emerging from a long period of
institutional deterioration. KCC is facing a shortage of
qualified staff and political constraints to rapid



- il -
increases in municipal taxes, rates and charges. The
Ministry suffers from low salary levels and overall central
government budgetary constraints. However, KCC has made
dramatic progress in the past year in recruiting qualified
staff and increasing revenue. The proposed components of
technical assistance and training in this Project, together
with macro-economic measures designed to continue overall
economic recovery supported by IDA restructuring
operations, are expected to mitigate these risks.
Estimated Costs:        Item                         Local    Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
Infrastructure Rehabilitation                          4.1        12.4     16.5
Urban Mapping and Planning                             0.2         2.3       2.5
Kawaala Sites and Services                             1.0         3.2       4.2
Technical Assistance and Training (KCC)                0.4         3.0      3.4
Technical Assistance and Training (MLG)                0.7         0.8      1.5
Project Preparation                                    0.1         2.1      2.2
Total Base Costs                                       6.5        23.8     30.3
Physical Contingencies                                 0.7         2.2      2.9
Price Contingencies                                    1.2         4.1      5.3
Total Project Costs                                    8.4        30.1     38.5
Financing Plan:   IDA                                  2.6        26.1     28.7
NDF                                 1.1         3.5      4.6
GTZ                                 0.1         0.5      0.6
Government                          4.6         0.0      4.6
Total                                                  8.4        30.1     38.5
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY    91    92       93     94    95       96     97   98
Annual     1.8   2.9    4.8    6.7   6.5       4.3    1.2  0.5
Cumulative 1.8   4.7    9.5   16.2  22.7    27.0   28.2 28.7
Economic
Rate of Return:   242



- 1 -
I. COUNTRY MCKGROUND
A. Geography. Climate. Population. Resources
1.01        Uganda is a landlocked country bounded by Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda,
Zaire and Sudan. It covers an area of approximately 241,000 sq.km. of which
about 20 percent consists of numerous waterways, swamps and lakes, most
notably the Nile and its source, Lake Victoria.  Most of Uganda is on a
plateau, with about 80 percent at an altitude of 1000-1500 m.
1.02        The altitude contributes to Uganda's pleasant climate.  There is
little seasonal variation in temperature because of its position astride the
ecuator. Mean maximum temperatures range from 200C at night to 35*C during
the day, mean minimum temperatures from 8°C to 230C. Annual rainfall varies
considerably within the country. The northeast has an arid climate averaging
500 mm of rain while the south receives about 1400 mm of rain annually. There
are normally two dry spells during the year, one from December to February,
the other in June and July.
1.03        The population is estimated at 16.5 million and growing at about
3.2 percent annually. Per capita income is in the order of US$230. About 90
percent of the population is rural. Political stability and security problems
in the period 1971-86 led to severe dislocations of the country's population.
These have overshadowed previous patterns of internal migrations, both rural-
to-urban and region-to-region. Recent improvements in security, the
rehabilitation of infrastructure, and economic recovery are expected to
increase migration to the urban areas.
1.04        The country is not well endowed with minerals or fossil fuel, but
has rich soils and a favorable climate for agricultural production. It has
extensive surface water resources as well as a Wery large hydro-electrical
potential which has been only partially exploited. At present, agriculture is
the backbone of the country, contributing about 70 percent to the GDP.
B. Economic Performance
1.05        Since early 1986, after 15 years of political strife and civil
war, Uganda has been engaged in a major effort of political stabilization,
reconstruction and economic recovery. In May 1987 the Government started an
economic rehabilitation and adjustment program by gradually liberalizing the
exchange and trade system, reconstructing the transportation system and public
utilities and strengthening the public sector institutional framework.
However, owing in part to larger than programmed credit expansion to both the
Government and private sector, inflationary pressures increased and as the
exchange rate was not adjusted sufficiently, it became seriously overvalued.
Uganda thus fell short of achieving the economic and financial objectives of
its 1987188 program.



- 2 -
1.06        During the subsequent two years, however, the Government took
steps to prevent a recurrence of past problems and acted to broaden and deepen
economic reforms. In response to these measures, the domestic economic
situation has responded favorably. Output growth has continued in the 6-7
percent range, reflecting in particular e marked recovery in agricultural
production and manufacturing output. Considerable progress has also been made
in bringing down the inflation rate. From an annual rate of 240 percent in
FY88, the end-year rate for FY89 was reduced to 86 percent in FY89 and to 29
percent in FY90 (below the target of 30 percent).
1.07        Other significant achievements made during the period include the
restoration of peace and security, the reestablisbment of political
institutions that reflect the plural character of Ugandan society, and
instillin- a measure of discipline in the public service. These have been
major factots in the restoration of confidence in the private i-ector and the
revival of economic activity. Marked improvement in the private sector
environment has occurred, in part, by significant liberalization of trade
brought about by limiting monopolistic practices, facilitating access to
foreign exchange, and dismantling some price and distribution controls.
1.08        Building on the results obtained in FY90, the Government's
principal economic objectives over the period 1990/91-1992/93 are to continue
a rapid overall economic recovery while further reducing the rate of inflation
substantially, to attain a sustainable balance of payments position, and to
continue the reconstruction and rehabilitation of social and institutional
infrastructure.



II. TUR URMN SECTOR
A. National Context to Urban Develonment
2.01        Uganda's urban settlement pattern is characterized by the primacy
of the capital Kampala (estimated population 700,OOC), which together with
Entebbe (estimated population 30,000) houses the central government services
and is the nerve center of the country's commercial, transport and
communications systems. Next in importance is Jinja (estimated population
130,000), a major industrial center strategically located at the point where
the Nile flows from Lake Victoria through the Owen Falls dam. A dozen urban
centers with populations between 20,000 and 50,000 form the next tier in the
urban system. These towns were originally established as administrative and
service centers evenly distributed throughout the country, but a number of
them have since developed more complex economies. In addition there are
smaller administrative, service and market centere of 5,000 to 20,000 people.
Lastly, there are numerous market centers with population between 2,000 and
5,000 that also have basic educational and health facilities,
2.02        The urban areas c ntain about 10 percent of Uganda's total
population of 16.5 million (1989 estimate). Urban growth was substantial in
the 1960s. The difficult political and economic situation in the 1970s and
early 1980s contributed to a dramatic slowdown in rural-urban migration. The
recent general improvement in security and the program of economic recovery
are expected to spur urban growth to about double the 3.2 percent growth rate
of the total population.
2.03        The functions of the urban sector in this predominantly
agricultural economy are to provide a wide range of services to the couutry,
both through the private and the public sector. They are also markets for
surplus food crops. The urban centers act predominantly as trading centers,
collecting and distributing local as well as international goods to and from
the rural areas. While agro-processing industries such as coffee hulleries
and cotton ginneries are spread throughout the rural areas in Uganda, urban
centers house other industries, with some concentration in Kampala and Jinja.
Professional services such as medical, legal, insurance and banking services
are also concentrated in urban areas. In addition, the network of services
provided by the central and local government operates generally through the
same pattern and hierarchy as the market centers. The exceptions include
district headquarters in sparsely populated areas which have little economic
activity. Communication and movement between urban and rural areas continues
at a low level, but relatively few government services reach the rural areas.
In addition, the provision of consumer and producer goods to farmers is
inadequate and expensive. It is, however, expected that with the
rehabilitation of roads and tele- ommunications and improved transport the
physical obstacles will dimin.



- 4 -
D. Current Urban Conditions
2.04        The insecurity, civil scrife and economic decline in Uganda
between 1971 and 1986 had a devastating effect on the administration,
financing, services and infrastructure of the urban areas. Kampala was no
exception. Revenues, which previously sustained an acceptable level of
service, could not keep up with rising costs, fuelled as they were by
hyperinflation. The level of service dropped, the administrative framework
was weakened by the exodus of qualified personnel, and infrastructure and
utility networks were neglected or damaged. Indeed, while Kampala's
population more than doubled between 1971 and 1986, no investments were made
in infrastructure and services. Fewer services are now being consumed by a
vastly expanded market.
Existing Institutional Arrangements
2.05        Responsible "ational Agencies.  The Ministry of Local Government
(MLG) supervises, regulates and aJvises City, Municipal and Town Councils in
matters of financial planning and centrol, policies, and development projects.
The Ministry of Lands and Survey and the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development provide essential services for local governments such as mapping
and the cadastre, and urban development plans and housing schemes
respectively. The Ministry of Health, together with the local councils, is
responsible for law cost sanitation and health education. The Public Service
Commission appoints, hires, and fires key financial staff, including Council
Treasurers. The Auditor-Gen.iral's office is charged with carrying out year-
end financial audits of councils in instances where the councils do not retain
independent auditors. The power of a council to levy local taxes is
restricted by the national taxing authority of the Ministry of Finance. The
Ministry of Finance also controls the total amount of block grants going to
urban authorities, as well as any capital contributions going to the Local
Authorities Loans Fund. The LALF, introduced in the late 1950's and managed
by MLG, is now inactive, having last received funds amounting to U Sh 1
million from Ministry of Finance in 1984/85. The Ministry of Commerce sets
business license fees (presently at very low levels) in the urban authorities.
Finally, Resistance Committees (Para. 2.07), organized in different levels
starting from the municipal down to village level, are assisting local
governments in their activities and in mobilizing community participation.
2.06        Kampala City Council (KCC) is responsible for providing urban
services as mandated under the Urban Authorities Act 1964 and the Resistance
Councils and Committees Statute 1987. The organization of KCC is based on the
traditional anglophone East African local authority model.   The Town Clerk,
reporting to an elected Kampala City Resistance Council, directs the
activities of five departments responsible for administration, engineering and
survey, finance, public health, and education. The Council's primary
functions relate to public markets, public housing estates and primary
schools. It is also responsible for administering the Public Health Act and
for enforcing planning and building regulations. The current level of
activity, still very low owing to lack of financial, human and material
resources, is nevertheless on the increase.



2.07        Resistance Committees.   As a first step to overhaul the
prevailing urban-rural administrative structure, the present Government has
introduced a major change in the political organization of urban and rural
areas. It has established Resist&ice Committees (RCs) in five layers through
which popular representation progresses from the smaller local units to the
national assembly. This communication linkage also operates in reverse from
the upper levels of Government down to the grassroots levels for balanced
feedback. The system also exists side by side with the earlier administrative
set-up in which authority flows from the center througn districts, sub-
districts, counties, sub-counties and parishes or municipal councils down to
the local levels. The RCs are, inter alia, aimed, and have in effect started
to promote community participation and local initiatives so as to overcome the
disaffection of the population which had become accustomed to relying on
Government for infrastructure, economic and social services in return for
their tax contribution. The five levels of RCs, with their corresponding
traditional geographical subdivision titles, are as follows:
Resistance Committee 1  -      village
Resistance Committee 2  -      parish
Resistance Committee 3  -      sub-county/town councils
Resistance Committee 4  -      county/municipalities
Resistance Committee 5  -      district and KCC
Tne Resistance Committees are the political level organizational set up at
every level, while the chiefs are civil servants who advise ICs and implement
their decisions.
2.08        Clar.fication, and in some cases redefinition of, the lines of
resposibility between central and local authorities is required in order to
increase the effectiveness of urban management. There is a need to formalize
informal procedures that are already in place as well as to codify new working
relationships that reserve key roles for both KCC and central government
agencies in the provision of services such as town planning. The role of RCs
will also need to be included in this exercise. The Project will help clarify
the institutional framework affecting physical planning and valuation and
rating (Paras. 3.09 and 3.14).
Financing Urban Services
2.09        Municipal Finance.  The financial relationship between central
Government and urban authorities is basically set out under the Constitution
and the Urban Authorities Act of 1964. The Ministry of Local Government sets
out guidelines to local authorities, exercises financial control through
budgetary procedures, administrative instructions, and inspections (Para.
5.09).
2.10        The majority of local revenues to finance urban services have
traditionally come from the graduated tax, the property rates, and central
government block grants for recurrent expenditure. The significance of these
sources of revenue to Kampala's finances has been altered dramatically in
recent years. The deterioration of urban services and the non-evaluation of
properties during a period of exceptional inflation since 1982 has severely



- 6 -
eroded both the valus of the property rate and resident's willingness to pay.
The cost of collecting property rates was estimated to be higher than the
yield. The most prominent sources of local government revenue for Kampala are
described as follows:
2.11        Graduated Tax is a form of poll tax with varying rates of dues,
depending on income, payable by all males over 18 and females in formal
employment. The minimum payment is U Sh 300 p.a. and the maximum U Sh 5000
p.a. for individuals with annual incomes in excess of U Sh 47,050. It has a
high collection rate because it is deducted at source for those in formal
employment, the payment card acts as a form of identification, and it is a tax
which has been accepted by the public.
:.12        Property rates a property tax, now based on rental values, has
existed in Uganda for many years. Recently the system has ceased to make any
net contribution to revenue in KCr due to a number of factors. The most
important two are the failure to revalue properties since 1982 and the fact
that the law restricts the rate to 20 percent of the assessed values thus
curtailing any buoyancy of the system. There is much scope for improving the
performance of the rating system, possibily more than doubling the locally
generated income due to KCC.
Urban Legislation
2.13        Laws governing the urban sector, with one exception, pre-date the
liberation war of 1979. The principal acts include the Urban Authorities Act
Revised 1964, the Public Land Act 1969, the Land Reform Decree 1975, the Land
Acquisition Act 1965, the Town and Country Planning Act 1964 and the Local
Government Rating Decree 1979. "ie single major decree enacted since 1979 is
the Resistanre Councils and Committees Statute 1987. The principal
legislative constraint on urhan development in Uganda is the complexity of the
procedures required for the allocation of land. This is exacerbated by the
highly centralized nature of the system and the breakdown of effective and
efficient land surveying, titling and registration. Public land in urban
areas is allocated to local authorities by the Uganda Land Commission (ULC).
Local authorities in turn allocate plots from this stock of public land on a
leasehold basis in a complex process requiring as least a dozen intricate and
expensive steps. It has been estimated that less than 10 percent of the
annual potential demand for land is satisfied under this system. About 8Z of
the land in Kampala, Mailo land, is privately held with titles granted under
customary rights. Attempts to convert such title into conventional leases and
force landowners to develop or forfeit their plots have so far failed. Mailo
land changes hands at very high prices under a system of haphazard subdivjsion
which creates a pattern of plot layout which is difficult and expensive to
service with physical infrastructure. This phenomenon is as true of high-
income areas as it is c! low-income areas. Government is aware of the
constraints imposed by inefficient land administration procedures and has
engaged in a comprehensive review of all land matters with a view to
broadening the range of acceptable solutions for the allocation of land which
confers security of tenure thus encouraging investment into housing and other
forms of real estate. (Para. 3.10).



- 7 -
2.14        Legislation governing building construction, contained in the
Public Health Act 1969, zurrently under revision, differs markedly according
to whether the construction will occur in a Planning Area or in a Residential
Settlement Area. For Planning Areas, the law specifies in detail materials
and methods permitted for acceptable Grade I construction. The enforcement of
these rules falls to the local authorities who, in theory, operate a
conventional system for issuing building permits after comprchensive reviews
by various public offices. Owing to the stringency of this system, most
formal housing construction either ignores the system (all but 975 projects in
1988) or occurs in Residential Settlement Areas or in recognized communities
where Grade II rules apply. Grade II rules are simpler, stated in the form of
performance criteria, and are more flexible than those of grade I
construction. The development of housing on land serviced under the Project
will be governed by grade II rules.
Present Housing and Service Standards in Kampala
2.15        Housing. It is estimated that about three quarters of Kampala's
residents live in crowded, poorly serviced, mud-and-wattle settlements that
lack basic infrastructure and amenities. Poor access to these settlements
often impedes the provision of services such as public transport and refuse
collection. High rents, which start at about U Sh 5,000 per month for a 3m x
3m mud-and wattle room with shared courtyard, cooking facilities and pit
latrine, without water or electricity on plot, induce crowding and indicate a
high unsatisfied demand for serviced plots. In a survey of housing conditions
undertaken in 1989, nearly 40Z of Kampala's households occupied tenements or
one-roomLd units in terraced blocks (muzigo) constructed of mud and wattle or
concrete block walls under metal roofs. The typical dwelling unit among the
low-income groups is one poorly ventilated room. Ovetcrowding is common with
average room occupancy rates observed to be between 4.1 and 5.4 people
occupying a space of 14m2. Such overcrowding and the associated lack of
services have led to incidences of typhoid and cholera in one family out of
twenty in the 6-month period preceding the 1989 survey.
2.16        Municipal Roads Network.  Kampala's road network comprises about
450 km of roads, of which about 270 km are surfaced. A large proportion of
this network, however, is in an extremely bad state of disrepair and in many
instances will have to be reconstructed. KCC, with EEC's assistance, has had
about 41 km of roads rehabilitated or reconstruced since 1983. Further,
improvements to the major roads is envisaged under Phase II of the EEC
program, involving 30 km of roads. Associated stormwater drains and
footpaths, as well as major drainage channels, have also been covered under
the EEC-financed road maintenance program. There is still an urgent need to
establish effective routine road maintenance services to preserve tho life of
the existing unrehabilitated roadways and protect the investment in those more
recently brought up to standard. Street lighting is lacking in all but the
major thor ughfares, with consequent security risks to pedestrians.
2.17        Refuse Collection.  Estimated solid waste generation is presently
1,700 m3/day (760 tons/day), of which less than 202 is collected. Regular
refuse collection service is provided to less than 102 of the city's



population. Negligible amounts of waste are disposed of by commercial and
industrial establishments bringing their own refuse directly to the tipping
ground or contacting KCC's Cleansing Section for ad hoc removal. Household
waste in Kampala typically contains 702-80Z wet, organic materia' which
decomposes rapidly. Uncollected household waste is disposed of u gardens and
vacant lots where it is used as animal feed, burnt, composted, buried or
decomposed in the open.   The KCC office responsible for overall development,
planning and coordination of the various cleansing activities is ill-equipped
for the task. The collection system consists of open, communal containers,
and special vehicles equipped for lifting and transportation of containers.
Collected waste is disposed of in uncontrolled landfills or dumps. KCC has
three available disposal sites only one of which, Lugogo By-pass, is currently
in operation. Lugogo By-pass has serious pollution problems: the waste blocks
the Lugogo Road and leachate flows on the street surface. All types of waste
are dumped indiscriminately, including hospital waste (syringes). The current
disposal practice is hazardous to humans and animals, and is in general
unsightly. During the rainy season some of the major markets, as well as the
dump sites become inaccessible to the collection vehicles, causing both
collection and disposal problems.
2.18        Markets.  Markets are managed by the City Treasurer's Department
and now account for a significant proportion (27 percent) of municipal
revenues. This is despite the fact that the market sites lack proper access,
drainage, hardstanding, water supply, electricity, security and general
amenities. There are more than 60 markets in Kampala with a total of over
14,000 stalls. Not all of these markets are effectively administered by KCC.
Spontaneous markets have sprung up since 1971 in response to the needs of
residents and are strategically located throughout the city. Some operate
only at night or late in the afternoon and outside controls which may be
enforced only during formal office hours.
2.19        Water Supply and Sanitation.  Currently about one half of
Kampala's population of 700,000 has access to a supply of treated water.
About one third of total consumption is by means of public standpipes.
Approximately 141 of Kampala's population is served by water-borne sewerage
systems, 162 by septic tanks, and the remainder by traditional (often shared)
pit latrines. Under IDA Credit 2124-UG for the Second Water Supply Project
(US$60 million), levels of service are projected to incr :ase to 642 for
treated water supply and 192 for sewerage systems by 1996. The provision of
water supply is, therefore, not proposed as a part of this Project.
C. Government Strategy for the Urban Sector
2.20        Besides the macro-economic constraints such as high inflation
there are a number of other factors which hamper development in the urban
sector. The major constraints are financial and are related to the inadequacy
of rates and taxes which were not adjusted to compensate for high inflation.
Insufficient resources have contributed to the following problems: i)
necessary equipment and materials for operation and maintenance could not be
provided; ii) low salaries led to shortage of qualified and experienced staff;
iii) low morale of existing staff has made the country dependant on technical
assistance.



- 9 -
2.21        GOU is aware of the problems but relieving these constraints will
take considerable time and effort. Restoring the loss of qualified manpower
which has taken place over the past 15 years will inevitably take years to
accomplish. Government policies for cost recovery for services are in place
but strengthening of the finance departments of the concerned institutions and
updating of consumer records will also take time.
2.22        Under the Rehabilitation and Development Plan (RDP) 1988189 -
1991192 1/ GOU has established the goal to continue the rehabilitation of
social infrastructure, consolidate existing systems and expand (social)
services in selected fields. In particular, in the sub-sector for urban
development, Government's strdtegy is to promote an *enabling approach' by
concentrating on the removal of impediments that hinder housing development.
GOU is to act as a facilitator, providing easier access to land, finance,
inexpensive but durable building materials, and the planning and installation
of infrastructure yet leaving the actual construction of shelter to the
private sector. In addition, the RDP calls for support for physical and
economic planning programs and the enforcement of town and district plans. It
also supports programs for the production of building materials.
D. Previous Sector Activities
2.23        Uganda's urban sector has not been the focus of major investment
for many years. During the last 15 years, virtually no maintenance of urban
services was carried out, much less improved upon. Indeed many of the
facilities were subject to looting and outright destruction. Since 1986, GOU
has recognized the important role played by the sector in the national economy
(Para. 2.03) and has accordingly given priority to a number of reconstruction
efforts with an urban focus. In 1981, Government established the
Reconstruction and Development Corporation (RDC) in order to speed up the
reconstruction of the three municipalities of Masaka, Mbarara, and Arua that
suffered most from the liberation war of 1979. Progress to date, impeded by a
lack of finance, includes the preparation of new development plans for the
towns asnd a limited amount of rehabilitation work in infrastructure, social
services and pool housing mainly in Masaka.
2.24        Kampala has received greater attention in the form of 41 km. of
major road reconstruction financed by EDP and GOU. Under a second phase, EDF
has earmarked ECU 15 million to continue the program. In the housing sector,
GOU has embarked upon a pilot urban area upgrading project with assistance
from UNCHS (Habitat) and Shelter-Afrique. The project is expected to result
in improved infrastructure services and housing, security of tenure for low-
income households and additional social services including a primary school.
Government is also receiving assistance from UNCHS to formulate a national
shelter strategy designed to identify housing needs and the resources required
to meet them. Efforts to strengthen Kampala's ability to manage solid waste
1 Ministry of Planning & Economic Development, Rehabilitation and
Development Plan 1988/89 - 1991/92, Volume I, Second Edition, Kampala, Uganda,
December 1989.



- 10 -
have been assisted by a number of donors including IDA, EEC and GTZ. IDA has
provided the services of a solid waste expert to assist with the management of
refuse collection programs in the seven towns included in IDA's First Water
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1510-UG).
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.25        IDA's country assistance strategy for Uganda supports the
Government's economic recovery by helping to restore productive capacity while
steering the economy towards sustainable long-term growth. The three main
elements of this strategy are: i) the restoration of macro-economic stability;
ii) the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure ; and iii) the
implementation of structural reforms and investments in productive and human
resources to address longer-term development objectives.
2.26        The restoration of macro-economic stability will be to the benefit
of the majority of Ugandans in the medium term. More resources will become
available to rehabilitate basic social services such as primary health care,
education, and water supplies. Employment opportunities in the urban areas
will be enhanced as industrial capacity utilization begins to improve. With
an improved economic climate, the enlarged inflow of foreign exchange and
policies designed to stimulate a supply response in the economy, higher levels
of per capita consumption and enhanced social welfare are projected for the
medium term. However, the short-run impact of the ERP, combined with the need
for Government direct resources towards addressing the political insurgencies
in the North, means that the needs of some of the worst victims of the period
of civil unrest and economic decline will not be met. These groups include
the urban poor living in dangerously unhealthy slum area of Kampala. The
proposed project, therefore, has as one of its objectives, the alleviation of
poverty in Kampala.
2.27        Existing IDA credits are assisting in the rehabilitation of
essential infrastructure, viz., Highways III and IV, Railways I, Water Supply
I and II and Telecomnunications II. Operations under consideration include
Power III, additional transport sector rehabilitation and a water supply
project for small towns. The proposed project would be the third in a series
dealing with the rehabilitation of local authority infrastructure but with
emphasis on services other than water supply. The project includes components
with significant impact on living conditions.
2.28        The project would support Uganda's aim to invest in human capital
development by financing the strengthening of government bodies at both
central and local levels. Such institutional development is necessary if
local authorities are to resume the provision of social and infrastructure
services with minimal dependence on central government resources, both
financial and human.
2.29    The project would also act as a catalyst in attracting other donor
support for the urban sector. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and GTZ have
indicated their intention to co-finance the proposed project.



- 11 -
III. TIE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Preparation
3.01        The proposed First Urban Project owes its origin to a series of
emergency water sapply and sewerage rehabilitation interventions in Uganda's
seven major towns. Major issues of urban finance and management were
identified in a Bank sector report in 1984 11. Subsequently, funds were
included in a PPF request from the Uganda Government to cover the cost of
specific feasibility studies covering priority action areas such as urban
finance, rehabilitation of streets and drains, solid waste management, urban
markets, low-cost sanitation and serviced residential land. The low-cost
sanitation component has been included in the PAPSCA project (Credit 2088-UG),
the program for the alleviation of poverty and social costs of adjustment.
The expansion of Kampala's water supply and sewerage network is assured
through the IDA Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 2124-UG).
Health and hygiene education measures to complement the upgrading of the water
supply and sanitation services are included in the IDA Health Project (Credit
1934-UG).
B. Project ObjecvAves
3.02        The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
decentralize responsibility for the planning, design and management of urban
services to local authorities while assisting with reconstruction of the
country after a period of political instability, social strife and physical
destruction. The project would include the following objectives:
(a)   improving living conditions and alleviating poverty in Kampala by
restoring key infrastructure services and related maintenance
activities;
(b)   improving urban financial management by i) strengthening the
rev-.ue base of KCC, and ii) promoting sound urban cost recovery
policies;
(c)   strengthening institutional capacity by i) supporting
decentralized local urban management; ii) increasing MLG's
capacity to assist local authorities to increase their revenue
base and strengthen financial management; and iii) increasing
KCC's capacity to manage urban land development.
The project will help restore KCC's authority and standing with respect to
markets administration, refuse collection and disposal, and the provision and
maintenance of infrastructure, particularly roads and storm drainage networks.
KCC and PPD's capability to undertake urban land planning directly linked to
infrastructure investment programming will be enhanced. MLG's capacity to
I Uganda - Report on Urban Finance and Management, Report No. 5322-UG,
September, 1985.



- 12 -
extend improved financial management and administrative services to other
local authorities throughout Uganda will also be improved.
C. ProJect Description
3.03        The project comprises the improvement of urban services in Kampala
including the rehabilitation of the solid waste collection and disposal
system, upgrading of urban markets, maintenance of urban roads, and provision
of infrastructure for self-help low cost housing. Besides funding for civil
works and the supply of goods, resources have also been included for training
and technical assistance for strengthening the responsible institutions (MLG,
KCC, IPA, and PPD) and improving their revenue base. The components listed
below represent priority interventions in the areas of urban infrastructure
and services. Detailed descriptions of the project components dnd related
cost estimates are given in Annexes 1-8.
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure in Kampala
3.04        Urban Markets.  The project will include the physical upgrading of
three prototypical priority markets (Ovino, Natete, Bugolobi) that serve both
retail and wholesale functions. In view of their unsanitary conditions and
their revenue generating potential, KCC attaches a high priority to this
component. The improvements would include enhanced pedestrian and vehicular
access, security perimeter walls and lighting, provision of water and sanitary
facilities, and better stormwater drainage. Construction of market sheds,
arcades and administration offices will also be undertaken. Vendors, in
addition to constructing their own lock-up stalls, will play a major role in
the day-to-day administration of the markets. In addition to the improvement
of environmental conditions in the three protoypical markets, the project also
provides a set of site plans for six other priority markets. The designs
include proposals for improved physical planning, infrastructure services, and
accommodation, the latter being based on standardized building types used in
the three prototypical markets. The project also includes funds for the
procurement of selected items of office equipment, furniture, vehicles and
tools as well as limited technical assistance and training for KCC market
workers at all levels of the management structure. (Annex 1).
3.05        Refuse Collection and Disposal.  Priority efforts to rehabilitate
Kampala's solid waste management system will focus on i) improved utilization
of existing equipment including improved repair and maintenance
operations; ii) better labor productivity; iii) establishment of a service
charge system to strengthen financial resources; and iv) improved disposal
site conditions at the three disposal sites in Kampala. The Public Cleansing
Section undor the City Engineer will be consolidated and a financial base
established through the introduction of a revised tariff structure. Service
coverage will be expanded according to consumers' willingness and ability to
pay. RCs will assist with mobilizing public participation in the program.
The Lugogo By-pass disposal site will be provided with all-weather access
roads, a drainage system, and suitable equipment for landfill operations.
Additional collection and disposal vehicles will be provided along with
transport for the inspectorate. An incinerator for hospital wastes will be
installed at Mulago Hospital to increase Kampala's capacity to control the



- 13-
spread of infectious diseases, including AIDS. The municipal vehicle vorkshop
will be repaired and equipped to provide routine maintenance and servicing of
vehicles and equipment while major repairs will be undertaken by qualified
private workshops. XCC personnel will be given training in systems planning.
operations and maintenance.  During negotiations it was agreed that DCC will
have defined and adopted an urban environmental policy statement with speclal
attention to solid waste management by April 30, 1992; it was also agreed that
improvement leading to an increase in the volume of waste disposed from 7,000
m3 to 16,000mS per month would be achieved by the end of 1993 CPara. 8.03)
(Annex 2).
3.06        Maintenance of Urban Roads, Storm Drains and Footpaths.  The
proposed road maintenance program for Kampala will be a 3-year program aimed
at strengthening KCC's road and drainage maintenance capacity while also
financing deferred, extraordinary maintenance of priority roads, drains and
pedestrian footpaths. The program will begin in FY1992 after completioa of
EEC's 3-year program which ends in FY1991. The program sill consist of
measures for strengthening the maintenance organization, training of staff,
technical equipment and supply of equipment, materials, tools and transport.
Extraordinary (periodic) maintenance will be carried out by both local and
International contractors. During negotiations it was agreed that ICC submit
to IDA, by June 30 of 1991, 1992, and 1993, its proposed annual road
mainteanace program Sncluding an economic analysis for review (Para. 8.03).
(Annex 3).
3.07        Rehabilitation of Selected Office/Workshop Accommodation.  The
Project will include the refurbishing of the mwnicipal mechanical workshop
located in Kampala on Sixth Street (Para. 3.05). During negotiations it was
confirmed that KCC will undertake to send all municipal vehicles and
mechanical equipment to private workshops for major repairs and servicing
(Para. 8.03). Municipal depots in four of the six administrative districts of
Kampala will be rehabilitated as part of the road maintenance program (Annex
3). In order to provide suitable facilities for the training of central and
local government workers, the Project will include the rehabilitation of an
existing building to accommodate the Local Government Resource Center at IPA
and training rooms at KCC and MLG (Annex 7).
Urban Land Management
3.08        Uodated Topographical Mapping of Kampala. Kampala's base map
series at 1:50,000 is largely based on aerial photography taken in the period
1958-1962 and, therefore, essentially represents the status prior to some
important infrastructure develowments, such as the construction of Mukwano
Road, the town center by-pass road. Because of changes in settlements and in
vegetation cover, the maps no longer furnish the background data required by
planners with the necessary degree of accuracy. The project will, therefore,
provide funds to prepare new base maps based on aerial photography which was
taken in February 1990. The new maps will be used, in the first instance, to
produce outline structure plans and area development plans for Kampala (Annex
4).



- 14 -
3.09        Strenathening of Urban Investment Planning.  The project will
strengthen the Physical Planning Department of the Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development (MOHUD) and the Town Planning section within MCC. The goal
would be create a capacity to plan and evaluate urban investment proposals.
The project aims to achieve this goal by financing a 2-year exercise of on-
the-job training for planners, economists, engineers and financial analysts
assisted by foreign and local expertise. The team is expected to produce up-
dated outline structure plans for Kampala and Jinja together with detail or
area development plans justifying capital investments on technical,
institutional, financial and socio-economic grounds. GTZ has agreed to
participate in this activity. During project appraisal, agreement was reached
between MCC and MOHUD on a suitable modus operandi to enable effective
training of personnel involved in urban development planning: resources from
GTZ would flow to PPD while those from IDA would flow to RCC. This was
confirmed during negotiations (Para. 8.03) (Annex 4).
3.10        Government has recently taken steps to address the bottlenecks
which affect mechanisms for administering land. The Comission of Inquiry on
Land Matters which began its work in late 1989 and a related consultancy
looking at the feasibility of rehabilitating the central land registry promise
to lead to major changes in the way land in Uganda is administered. (Para.
2.13). The studies have included an examination of the issues relating to
land survey, titling, land registration and the need for an integrated land
Information system. The project would provide short-term technical assistance
to up-date the Town and Country Planning Act (1964) which is based upon
legislation passed in the U.K. in 1947. The review would take into account
proposed changes in the administration of land as may be forthcoming as a
result of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Administration (Annex 4).
3.11        Provision of Serviced Residential Land.  In order to begin
addressing the acute shortage of serviced plots within properly planned
residential development areas, the project will finance the replanning and
servicing of a partially developed 47 hectare site in Kawaala mostly owned by
ICC. The Project area was gazetted as an Action Area under the Town and
Country Planning Act 1964 on September 28, 1990. The scheme will provide
about 1,000 serviced plots with minimal but improvable infrastructure
including roads, storm drains, water (75 percent at standpipes), and security
lighting/electricity. Most plots will be allocated to lower-income households
for development of core houses by means of self-help and informal sector
credit. The most vulnerable groups will be assisted by the provision of
building materials and block-and brick-making equipment, the latter to be used
by local cooperatives. Implementation of the scheme will be assisted through
the active participation of the local RC structures. During negotiations it
was agreed with MCC that the operating expenses of the primary school to be
built at Kawaala will be adequately budgeted for (Para. 8.03). (Annex 5).
Urban Management
3.12        Uganda's municipalities have received very little assistance for
strengthening urban finance and management in the past. The shrinking
financial revenue base during a reriod of high inflation accelerated the decay
of urban services and infrastructure and demoralized municipal staff. The



- 15 -
project aims at reversing this trend in Xampala. Measures to improve the
financial resource base will have the highest priority, including the
revamping of Kampala's property tax system (Annex 6). It is recognized that
Increased charges should. in some instances, be accompanied by visibly
Improved levels of service. Besides XCC, assistance will be provided to WLG
to strengthen the local government inspectorate and to provide fiuancial
management and administrative training programs for other local authorities in
Uganda, as outlined below (Annexes 7 and 8).
3.13        Technical Assistance and Trainins to MLG:  In support of HLG's
goal to help Local Authorities Increase their revenue base and improve their
fimancial management and administrative systems generally, the project would
include financing tot
(a)   establish a management training and policy unit within the Local
Government Inspectorate to provide overall leadership to training
and institutional development for local governments in Uganda.
This unit will be responsible for establishing Training and
Institution Development (TID) policies for local governments,
assessing needs, setting training priorities, garnering TID
resources, and monitoring and evaluating TID activities and their
impact on local government performance;
(b)   establish and equip a Local Government Resource Center (LGRC) on
the campus of the Institute of Public Administration (in a
building which was originally donated to 6OU for that purpose).
The Center would provide for the development of a full range of
decentralized support services to local governments, includings
training trainers; developing and printing training materials and
operational manuals; carrying out action research and consulting
assignments in local authorities; acting as a secretariat to the
Association of Urban Authorities; offering a full range of
decentralized short courses and seminars for local officers;
publishing a variety of news bulletins and other documents to keep
local authorities informed; and acting as a facilitator for
linking programs between Uganda's local authorities and more
mature local institutions in other countries. During negotiations
it was confirmed that the building on the IPA compound be
designated the Local Government Training and Resource Center
(Para. 8.03).
3.14        Long-term technical assistance advisors to be attached to MLGIIPA
would include the following:
Job Title                                                     Staff-months
Training and organizational specialist                              24
LGRC coordinator                                                    24
Media/design specialist                                             24
Total                                                         72
am



- 16 _
3.15        Technical Assistance and Trainig to 1CCs  The project aims to
strengthen ICC's general financial and personnel management systems and
service operations through:
(a)   a linking arrangement with one or two mature local authorities,
outside Uganda that can provide long and short-term technical
specialists and practical attachments for NCC officers In speciflc
operational areas in need of improvement;
Sb)   the creation and support of a training unit within XCC that can
mobilize and manage a full range of human resource development
programs for ICC officials, officers and employees;
Cc)   specialized consultations and technical assistance to the office
of the Town Clerk in municipal management, organization
development and the development of a personnel management system;
Sd)   a wide range of short on-the-job, in-house and in-country training
workshops and programs in such areas as financial management,
revenue collection, market operations, general management, first-
line supervision, street maintenance and other areas, as
identified during the project preparation; and through a process
of on-going needs assessment; and
(e)   the provision of appropriate assistance in the form of transport,
training, furniture and equipment and training aids.
During proJect appraisal agreement was reached with Government on a suitable
approach for the provision of human resources development within KCC using,
inter alia, a twinning arrangement with another more mature local authority.
3.16        Long-term technical assistance advisors to be attached to RCC
wuald include the followings
Job Title                                        Staff-months
Municipal financial management specialist               24
Revenuelaudit/computer specialist                       12
Organizational development specialist                   12
Personnel systems specialist                            12
Market management specialist                             8
Vehicle maintenance specialist                          12
Solid waste management specialist                      12
Low-income housing specialist                           12
Road maintenance specialist                             12
Valuation and training specialists (2)                  60
Total                                           176



_ 17 -
Proiect PreUaration
3.17        The project also provides funds for the preparation of a possible
free-standing IDA credit for a small towns water and sanitation project.  Tbo
preparatory activities would fall under the Water Development Department (V1W)
of the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development. The project would focus on
the rehabilitation and expansion and now construction of water supplies and
sanitation facilities in towns which are smaller than the seven towns included
in Second Water Supply Project (Credit 2124-UG). The preparatory activities
would be designed to strengthen 1WDD to enable it to play an increased role in
the plamning, design, implementation and operation of small urban water supply
schemes Funding would be provided for technical assistance, consulting
services, provision of office equipment and transport (Annex 9).
D. Prolect Costs
3.18        The total project costs are estimated at US$38.5 million of which
US$30.2 million or 782 represents the foreign exchange component. The
provision for duties and taxes has been estimated at US$0.7 million. Base
costs are expressed at May 1990 prices. Summary project cost estimates are
shown in Table 3.1 and detailed cost estimates are shown as part of the
annexes describing the project components.



.. 18 -
UmNDA FIRST UBN PROJECT
Table 8.1
Projet Cot Estte.|
LoI      For1ein       ToOal       X Toul
A.  KCC INFRASTRUCTtRE REHABILTATION
1. Urban markets                    1.08        4.23       6.80            143
2.  Solid was  Mnag t               1.59        8.70        5.20           143
S.  Streets and deains              1.43        4.47        5.90           lox
Sub-total A                          4.00       12.40       10.49           43
B.  UROAN LAND DEVMENT
1. KCC mapping                      0.00        1.06        1.05            ox
2.  Urban development planning      0.16        1.23        1.40            45
S. Kawala sites A service           0.97        8.16        4.10           llX
sub-totel                           1.1S        5.51        0.60            173
C.  URBAN MANAGEMNT
1. KCC TA/tralning/equip            0.42        2.99       8.40             oX
2. IIL TA/training/quip             0.06        0.68        1.40            4X
sub-total C                          1.07        8.02        4.69           1s1
D.  PROECT PREPARATION
1. Small Town Water Supply          0.11        0.02        0.78            2X
2.  PPF Refinancing                 0.00        1.50        2.50            4X
Sub-total D                          0.11        2.12        2.28            OX
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          0.48       28.U        80.20          7?X
E.   CONTDIEIES
1.  Physical (101)                  0.64        2.23        2.60            7X
2. Price 1/                         1.27        4.07        6.84           14X
Sub-total  E                         1.91        6.81        0.22           21X
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       0.84       80.10       86.50          1O00
TOTAL PROJECT COST EXCUWINC TAXES         ?.57       80.10       87.78
1/ E    _pce price lncrease  (X) on categories A, S. C, ad .1:
1960     1991    162         1068        104           195          1906
Local und Foreign        4.0      4.9      4.9         4.9        4.0           4.0          3.7
Note: International pric coatiagsncy rates have bees usd tor local costs e the ass*uption
that the differenc  betwen doestic and internotional price intlation will
be offst by adjustments In the foreign exchang  rate.



- 19 _
3.19        The estimated c::t of rehabilitating the three selected urban
markets was based on detailed working drawings and draft tender documents
prepared by consultants and adjusted by Association staff. Project costs for
the up-grading of refuse tips to sanitary landfill standards were estimated by
the KCC with the assistance of consultants or the basis of preliminary
engineering designs.  The estimated cost of urban road maintenance was based
on rates recorded under currint road maintenance activities and recent
tendering carried out by EEC for their 1990191 road maintenanee program.
Project costs for the Kawaala sites and services scheme were based on
preliminary engineering designs prepared by consultants.
3.20        The consultant services to be provided by foreign and local
professional specialists are estimated to cost US$15,000 and US$4,000 per
person-month (inclusive of transport and housing) respectively. The estimated
monthly cost of foreign technician assistance has been estimated to be
US$12,000. The monthly cost of training through overseas attachment has been
assessed at US$4,000. The cost of engineering supervision services has been
assessed at 5 of the cost of the civil and building works.
3.21        Physical contingencies are estimated at lOZ of base costs,
excluding land. Price contingencies to provide for anticipated cost increases
over the implementation period are based on an annual price increase of 4.9Z
for the years 1990 to 1995 inclusive and 3.7Z for 1996. The international
rate has also been used for local costs on the assumption that the difference
between domestic and international price inflation will be offset by
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate.
K.  Proiect Financina
3.22        It is proposed that IDA finance US$28.7 million or 75Z of total
project costs net of t%xes. NDF has agreed, in principle, to contribute
US$4.6 million in support of strengthening urban management at MLG and RCC
(Paras. 3.13 - 3.16). GTZ has agreed to co-finance the strengthening of the
physical planning capacity of MOHUD and KCC (Para. 3.09) ir the amount of
US$0.6 million. The balance of US$4.6 million, all local costs, would be
financed in equal measure by the GOU and KCC. The financing plan is
summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2
Total Proiect Financins
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign     Total        Financing as
Z of Total
IDA               2.58         26.12       28.70              752
NDF               1.10          3.50        4.60              122
GTZ               0.06          0.54        0.60               22
Government/XCC    4.60          0.00        4.60              122
Total       8.34        30.16        38.50            1002
-x _ _



- 20 -
IV.  PROJ     D
A.  The Borrower and On-lend-Ina Arranements
4.01      The ID& credit of US$28.7 million would be made available to 6OU
at the standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years including 10 years
grace. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be passed on to the various
Implementing agencies as loans and grants according to their respective
abilities to recover the capital costs of the project and the strength of
their respective financial positions. GOU would bear the foreign exchange
risk of the Credit.
4.02      About US$21.2 million of the IDA credit will be passed on to ICC
as a loan to suppott the financing of capital c.sts, including market
upgrading, refuse removal refurbishing, implementing the Kawaala sites and
services scheme and executing road maintenance, all items for which viable
cost recovery approaches exist through user charges, property tax or
beneficiary loan repayments. The IDA on-lending would be made at an annual
Interest rate of 21 repayable over 25 years with a 5-year grace period.
The terms are justifiable on the grounds that KCC is not a profit-earning
entity. Concessional lending terms are essential at this time to provide
the opportunity for the Council to begin to regain a strong financial base.
The terms also permit RCC to carry out limited capital development works
from its own resources since the IDA credit does not cater for all
Investment needs during the period 1991-1997.   At the same time, the terms
avoid the provision of an outright grant, thereby creating an incentive for
the reestablishment of financial discipline over the long term. Completion
of the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and ICC would be
required as a condition of credit effectiveness (Para. 8.05). For the
remaining ICC components for which the capital costs cannot be recovered
directly from beneficiaries, about US$4.5 million of the IDA credit would
be passed on as budgetary allocations to KCC throw^ NWLG. These components
include technical assistance and a limited amount f p.ofessional and
technical equipments
4.03      For the other project agencies, including MEG and VDD, which
would receive technical assistance and training under the project, about
US$3.0 million of the IDA credit would be passed on as grants and budgetary
allocations. This amount also includes US$1.3 million for the preparation
of topographical base maps of Kampala.
4.04      The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and GTZ have indicated an
interest in providing US$4.6 million and US$0.6 million respectively. The
allocation of the NDP contribution to provide technical assistance and
training for urban mnagement was confirmed during negotiations (Paras.
3.13 and 3.14). The NDF funds will be provided on terms essentially
identical to an IDA Credit, i.e., 40 years maturity, 10 years grace and
zero interest. GTZ grat funds will be managed directly by GTZ in the
course of contributing to the strengthening of urban investment planning
component (Para. 3.09). The fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness of
credits and grants from 3D? and GTZ will be a condition of the IDA Credit
effectiveness (Para. 8.05).



- 21 -
S.  Institutional Araa _ts for                 lozlfeation
4.05      Overall implemntation responsibilities for the rehabilitation
of municipal infrastructure, the provlsion of serviced residential land,
the preparation of an urban investment program and the strengthening of
Rampala's urban management would rest with KCC under the direction of the
Town Clerk. Overall lmplementation responsibility for the strengthening of
physical planning would lie jointly with KCC and PPD of MORUD.
Implementation responsibilities for the strengthening of local government
financial managemnt would lie vith MLG, under the direction of the
Commissioner of Urban Affairs. Day-to-day assistance for project
implementation, particularly as regards procurement, disbursement and
progress reporting, would be provided by the Project Coordination Unit
under MPED (Para. 5.27). During Project appraisal agreement was reached
with Government that key staff, advisors and technical assistance will be
appointed in all affected sections of MLG, KCC, and PCU. This was
confirmed during negotiations (Para.8.03).
C. Procurement
4.06      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1
8uy o Prsu,b Uthids 1/
P""eiN.sb Ut.                              IS 1*  is   0*. VI  tt-fla.... 41 T.t.i
KC      1804    0.14 1OU.84
)-   0.U                                        0.0
@88                            o.us
.'    I 10"  *.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.s
Read got Iuis .I Odin$ owlel.
in                0~~~~~.M7               0.47
V4616146' I*lp=Ao Toole(0GA?)                            (.0)6
UK     .86             0o.1                    v.ss
(7.86)     ~~~0.1)                 (7.04)
MA       0.48            0.04                    0.47
(0.48)         0.04)                   (0.41)
Cma.taa 8.,., TA. Teatlal.
100t.58                                    8.14  1.04
(8.58         (8.58)
W V                               1.8 140  2.48
(1.814)       (-1.1)
la                                         0.0   0.0
poC                               0.04           0.08
%1,045 _.    1.81    0.M    0.04     $.a     68.5  88.80
(1101)    5.51)0  0.10)    (5.10       (1610
1I Pip. 1.I be.abst. am .   th  Awelve Iut flhsuesi by SM4.
91 SIceab Pabs.s, hlrlaN t O..lt Wst aid l..d .OPApemSaU..
SI Lald eb KamN is fa.1 aid smlaes adbm.
4, ""Gl kuslegmat Plud aid WUI; MPraurm  by Nwrdi 4ampebitive bdilq.
SI CuSe at SWAMPM ="I as lleatdt WAi'



- 22 -
4.07      All civil works valued at a total of US$18.6 million including
contingencies will be carried out by contract. A total of 8 contracts for
the rehabilitation of the markets, periodic road maintenance, upgrading of
sanitary landfill sites, the servicing of land at Kawaala and the
construction of Kawaala's primary school, worth US$17.9 million, will be
procured by ICB. For this purpose, the Borrower will use Bank sample
bidding documents for works (September 1985). Contractors for the two
largest contracts, urban markets and Kawaala land servicing, will be pre-
qualified before inviting bids. A detailed schedule of all contracts in
excess of US$O.l million is given in Annex 10. All contracts in excess of
US$0.30 -million will be subject to prior review by IDA, representing 85Z of
all disbursements.
4.08      Contracts required to rehabilitate a KCC training facility, four
road maintenance depots, the Sixth Street workshop and an MLG training
office are small (less than US$0.1 million each) and will be unlikely to
attract international bidders. Therefore, these works will be procured by
local competitive bidding in accordance with Government procedures
satisfactory to the Association. The assessment of LCB procedures in
Uganda is still to be made and until this is completed, LCB procedures to
be followed require advertising, public bid opening, establishment of
evaluation criteria, contract award to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder and non-exclusion of foreign bidders from participation. The first
LCB document to be financed under the project will therefore be reviewed by
IDA to ensure that these requirements have been met.
4.09      Road maintenance materials (cement, steel, and spare parts,
etc.), estimated to cost US$0.3 million including contingencies, building
materials for self-help house construction at Kawaala, estimated to cost
US$0.38 million, and the supply of professional equipment, tools and
training aids, estimated to cost US$0.2 million, will be procured through
International shopping by calling quotations from not less than three
suppliers from at least two countries. The maximum contract value would be
US$90,000.
4.10      Supply of passenger vehicles, pick-up trucks, vans, refuse
collection vehicles, including appurtenant containers, landfill equipment
and road maintenance equipment and spare parts, estimated to cost US$8.2
million including contingencies, shall be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for procurement. Contracts for vehicles
and equipment will be grouped in bidding packages, of not less than
US$300,000 in value, according to the type or similar types of vehicles and
equipment. To be eligible, the equipment suppliers will be required to
provide an adequate organization and maintain a reasonable inventory of
spare parts in Uganda. They will also be required to provide training of
mechanics and plant operators. Refuse containers, estimated to cost US$2.7
million, are fabricated locally and will be procured by LCB in annual lots
over six years, provided that the quantity, quality and cost are shown to
be comparable with estimates from international vehicle and equipment
manufacturers/suppliers. A small number of passenger vehicles required for
project start-up and valued at US$0.2 million will be procured through



- 23 -
international shopping by calling quotations from not less than three
suppliers from at least two countries.
4.11      Technical assistance for further project preparation and
supervision, including detailed engineering design of landfill sites,
supervision of market upgrading and servicing of Kawaala land will be done
by consultants retained under procedures outlined in Bank guidelines.
4.12      Technical assistance and training to strengthen KCC management
and administration, estimated to cost US$3.5 million including
contingencies, will be employed using a twinning or linking arrangements
with more mature local authority organizations in another part of the
world. During appraisal the feasibility of providing operational technical
assistance to KCC for solid waste management, urban markets, and street
maintenance estimated to cost US$1.4 million, through the same twinning
arrangement was established as being cost effective and provided for
considerable flexibility. Technical assistance and training for MLG,
estimated to cost US$1.1 million including contingencies, will also be
undertaken through a linking arrangement with a training organization which
would establish a local government resource center at IPA (Paras. 3.13 and
3.14). This component of the project would be financed by NDF.
D. Disbursement
4.13      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Mi)      75 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii)      100 percent of total expenditure for vehicles, equipment,
tools and training aids; and
(iii)      100 percent of total expenditure for consultants services,
technical assistance and training.
4.14     All disbursements will be fully documented except for payments
against contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent which would be
disbursed on the basis of statements of expenses (SOEs). Supporting
documents for amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs would be made
available for review by auditors and visiting Bank missions.
4.15     To expedite and facilitate disbursements, it was agreed during
negotiations that PCU, through MLG, would establish a separate Special
Account in a local commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$300,000
(Para. 8.03).
4.16     It was also agreed that &CC would establish an Advance Account in
Uganda shillings with an initial deposit of US$27,000 equivaluat to
facilitate disbursement in local currency to cover local costs. GOU will
also contribute an initial amount of US$27,000 to the Advance Account
'Para. 8.03).



- 24 -
4.17     The schedule of estimated IDA disbursements, expected to be
completed by June 30, 1998; is shown in Annex 11. The disbursement
estimates are based on the project implementation schedule and on the
typical disbursement profile for urban projects in Bastern Africa.
L. Implementation Schedule
4.18     Annex 12 indicates the phasing of the implementation of each of
the project components. The bulk of the infrastructure works are planned
for 1991, 1992, and 1993. The implementation schedule for all Project
components (Annex 12) and project progress reporting requirements were
agreed with Government during appraisal and were confirmed during
negotiations (Para. 8.03).
F. Land Acquisition and Plot Allocation
4.19     Portions of the market sites slated for improvement are currently
owned or leased ;y individuals.  KCC has initiated discussions and
negotiations for their acquisition. Parcels of land required for the
project would have to be acquired prior to loan disbursement. In the case
of the proposed site adjacent to the Ovino market, currently used as a car
park but owned by the Trustees of the Nakivubu Memorial Stadium, RCC is to
enter into an agreement for its improvement and use. The site slated for
residential plots development at Kawaala, though mostly KCC land, has about
46 identified leases registered in the name of various individuals. Prior
to negotiations Government prepared and submitted to IDA a list of land to
be compulsorily acquired in the interest of the project and had confirmed
the availability of the land required (Para. 8.01).
4.20     Agreement was reached with Government that as a condition of
disbursement of the relevant categories, all land required for the Project
(markets, land development at Kawaala) will held in legal title by ZCC and
that appropriate resettlement and compensation will be granted to current
legal occupants (Para. 8.04). GOU will submit conformed copies of the
relevant land titles for review by IDA prior to the disbursement of funds
in respect of the affected project components. The involuntary
resettlement and compensation program will include a timetable for
compensation, priority allocation of plots to bona fide occupants in
Kawaala to be moved under the proposed project, and a plan to relocate bona
fide vendors who will be moved around/from Owino market as a result of the
reduction in number of stalls.
4.21       During appraisal it was agreed that XCC will allocate serviced
residential plots within the Rawaala sites and services scheme to heads of
households who meet the following allocation criteria. This was confirmed
during negotiations (Para. 8.03)s
(a)   are citizens of Uganda of at least 21 years of age;
(b)   have regular incomes, not exceeding U Sh 100,000 per
household per month (May 1990 prices);



- 2S -
(c)   have resided in greater Kampala for at least two years; and
(d)   do not already own a site or house in Kampala (except those
heads of household which already have a plot in the Kawaala
project area which would be eligible to apply for substitute
land vithin the scheme, even if such households hold a site
(a) outside of Kawaala).
Allocations will be made using a standard agreement acceptable to the
Association.
. Prolect MRoitorla. Accountina. Auditing
4.22     Project accounts will be maintained by PCU on behalf of ICC and
MLB with separate accounts for each element of their respective components
and will be available for inspection by InA supervision missions. All
project accounts will be audited by an auditing firm acceptable to the
Association. The auditor's opinion will be required to contain a special
reference to SOEs (Para. 4.13) confirming that the claimed expenditures
were used for the purpose for which they were intended. Government will
submit certified copies of such accounts and annual audit reports to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
4.23     Each project implementing agency will prepare quarterly reports in
a format acceptable to the Association and Including the information set
out in Annex 13. Such reports will be combined into a single report by PCU
for submission to IDA. IDA will undertake supervision miesions at regular
intervals according to the Supervision Plan included in Annex 13.
4.24     An agreement was reached with Government that a completion report,
In a form acceptable to the Association, will be prepared and submitted not
later than six months after the closing date of the Credit (Para. 8.03).



- 26 -
V. ANALYSIS OF PROJECT IAEPLD(BUTIRO AQICIES
A. Kamaala City Council
5.01        Functions of MCC.  ICC is required to fulfill the following
mandatory functions under the terms of Section 29 of the Urban Authorities Act
1964:
(a)   control, manage, and administer the Urban Area;
(b)   safeguard public health;
(c)   develop, control, and manage land taken on lease from the Uganda
Land Commission including any housing estates thereon;
(d)   administer primary schools and homecraft centers; and
(e)   administer such medical and health services as the Minister may,
by statutory instrument, declare.
In addition, as the country's largest urban authority, it also has a number of
permissive functions including the I) provision, operation and maintenance of
public facilities including markets, sanitary services for the removal of
refuse and roads; ii) establishment of housing schemes including the servicing
of land and the sale or leasing of plots; iii) administration of town and
country planning schemes in any area within two miles of the urban boundaries;
iv) advancing of money on the security of immovable property for the purpose
of enabling persons to acquire land and build dwellings; and v) recovery of
costs for municipal services rendered at rates approved by the Minister of
Local Government. Section 53 of the Act gives powers to KCC to raise loans in
such amounts and on such conditions as the Minister of Local Government may
approve.
5.02        Organization and Management.  The highest deliberative body of the
city is the Kampala City Resistance Council composed of 72 elected members
from five sub-county or divisional areas (Xawempe, Central, Rubaga, Nakawa and
Makindye) and two divisions representing Makerere University and Kyambogo
Training Institute. Each area has its own Resistance Council (RC) made up of
elected members from constituent administrative parishes, each in turn
represented by RCs composed of members from the 'village' or neighborhood
level.
5.03        The administration of KCC is headed by a town clerk who directs
the activities of five departments, each headed by a Chief Officer. The
functions of each department are as follows (See Chart 1 - KCC Organization
Chart)s
(a)      Administration (Deputy Town Clerk):
(i)   internal administration including personnel management,
training, field administration, committee work and support
services;
(ii) external matters including public relations, legal matters,
security and administration of public housing estates
established by the Council;



- 27 -
(b) Engineering & Survey (City Engineer and Surveyor)s
(i)   operations including building inspeetion, drainage and
cleansing, refuse collection and disposal, inspection of
works, maintenance of city electrical services, traffic
management and maintenance of mechanical transport and
plant;
(ii) town planning including preparation of detailed schemes and
enforcement of planning regulations;
(iii) technical vatters relating to the design and construction of
infrastructure, buildings, horticulture and stone quarrying.
(c)   Finance (City Treasurer)s
(i)   internal audit; purchasing and stores; graduated tax;
property valuation and rates; accountancy; markets
administration; car parks; expenditure; budgets; computer &
programming:
(d)   Public Health (Medical Officer of Health):
ti)      preventive health matters including health education,
inspection of abattoirs, markets, cemeteries, water drains
and vector control;
(ii) curative health matters including of running 6 municipal
clinics and provision of services to municipal schools; and
(e)   Education (Chief Education Officer)s
Ci)   development, equipping and operating and maintaining of
primary schools in the municipality. (Notes staff paid by
Ministry of Education).
5.04        The total establishment of RCC includes 2,643 posts of which 1,166
are filled. Table 5.1 shows filled and unfilled established posts by
Department. Of the 54 posts established at principal officer level and above,
only 12 are filled, leaving 42 senior posts vacant or manned in an acting
capacity. The council also employs about 3,000 casual laborers. The number
of vacant posts is a measure of the low level of remuneration earned by KCC
employees, with professional technical grades earning U Sh 2000 - 3000 (US$50
-70) per month, supplemented by allowances of a similar order of magnitude.
XCC's effectiveness and productivity are low because of the large number of
vacancies and the low level of salaries. The project will finance a review of
the present personnel system with a view to establishing a structure with a
human resource development bias that can help KCC attract, retain, motivate,
compensate and develop a mature, dedicated cadre of individuals to serve the
needs of the organization and the citizens of the city (Annex 8).



- 28 -
Table S.1
ICC Establishment
Department              Filled       2     Unfilled    S      Total
Town Clerk              408          48          432   52    840
City Treasurer          324          59          229   41    553
City Zducation            53         27          145   73    198
Public Health           229          42          306   58    535
City Engineer            142         30          337   70    479
Audit                     10         27           28   73      38
Total                  1166          44         1477   56   2643
5.05        Manpower Development, Training and Technical Assistance.  The new
management team which took up positions in early 1989 has prepared proposals
to change the management approach from day-to-day reactions to problems to
planned, time-specific actions.   While the Town Clerk and his colleagues see
physical under-equipment as their largest handicap, they also see the need for
assistance In establishing modern management methods with data gathering,
infomation analysis, am!'agement information systems and vork programs tor the
short, medium and long term. Their preference is for training of old and new
personnel in order to improve performance, with costly technical assistance
concentrated in a few key areas. A limited number of areas requiring
financial and technical expertise to strengthen physical program compoaents
have been identified to encourage gradual improvements of staff performance
through bands-on training. A training arrangement with a well managed
municipality will be appropriate to mobilize an interacting group of experts
rather than individuals.  Improvement of ICC's financial resources and
management expenditure control is essential to ICC's future. Rence financial
expertise is among the most important technical assistance proposed. During
negotiations agreement was obtained that the municipal financial management
specialist for iCC will be in post as a condition of credit effectiveness
(Para. 8.05).
5.06        Accounts and Audit.  MCC financial accounting is of very poor
quality. The flow of information within the Finance Department is
insufficient and there is very little feedback from KCC management to the
accounts, making accountability difficult. The original accounting system has
deteriorated over the years through the gradual erosion of basic controls and
competence. XCC's last statement of audited accounts produced without
external assistance was for pY1979 11. Since then no further final accounts
have been established. Consultants, funded by IDA, attempted to reconstruct
accounts for mY1987 and PY1988. The preparation of PY1987 accounts proved
ipossible owing to the loss of documentation, i.e., documents of original
entry, journals, ledgers, NCM machine posting proofs, and the lack of control
1 DCC's financial year begins on 1 October, three months after the
beginning of central Government's financial year.



- 29 -
accounts. In addition, there was considerable confusion and a number of
errors in the treatment of the 1987 devaluation. The accounts for FY1988/89
have been reconstructed and. balanced but there are several outstanding items
to be resolved before finalization.
5.07        Despite the current difficulties, a certain improvement in 1989 is
visible (Paras. 6.10-6.15). In close cooperation with the office of the Town
Clerk and the Council, the management of the Finance Department addressed
itself to the problem of the need for qualified and experienced personnel in
key positions. Accordingly, recruitment and selection of staff was undertaken
in FY1989. In addition, a new departmental structure was introduced with 10
divisions as shown in Chart 1. An additional post of Deputy City Treasurer in
charge of revenue and expenditure with five other officers reporting directly
to him was established. The original Deputy City Treasurer, left with three
officers under his direct control, runs the administration of the Department.
The Internal Audit Division was given the status of Department and its head,
the Chief Internal Auditor, reports directly to the Town Clerk.
5.08        Billing and Collection.  Billing and collection procedures are
different according to the nature of the fees and charges. Some examples are
given below:
(a)      Graduated Tax - Tax payable by salaried workers is deducted
at the source and paid directly by employers to 85 KCC
agents and an equal number of assistants located at KCC
revenue collection offices. Self-employed individuals are
assessed by Chiefs and Committees. Five enforcement
officers, assisted by 150 enforcement assistants, request
receipts of payment of Graduated Tax form individuals (Para.
2.11).
(b)      Rates - Claim bills are delivered by Demand Note Servers on
the basis of the valuation list. The bills are sent half
yearly for the periods January-June and July to December.
As these periods do not coincide with the Financial Year
(October-September) a relevant correction should be done.
There are about 60 Demand Note Servers in the rates section
(Para. 2.12).
(c)      Ground Rents - Bills are sent only if the amount is U Sh
10,000 and more. Difficulties are created by the lack of
reliable mailing addresses and the low assessment in many
cases.
(d)      Markets - Dues are collected daily according to goods
delivered. Rent is collected monthly. Collection of dues
and rent is done by inspectors.



- 30 -
B.   Ministry of Local Government
5.09        Through the Urban Authorities Act 1964 and various administrative
procedures, the national government exercises considerable control over the
financial management of local authorities. MLG has primary supervisory
control over council finances and is responsible for:
(a)   Allocation of block grants to councilst
(b)   Establishment of financial policies and directions through
budgetary control procedures;
(c)   Review of monthly financial reports prepared by councils;
(d)   Inspection and audit of council development plans;
(e)   Establishment and enforcement of council accounting practices;
(f)   Appointment (by the Minister) of city, municipal, and town
Councilors, in cases where the minister decides that Councilors
will not be chosen by elections;
(g)   Management of the Local Authorities Loan Fund (Para. 2.05).
5.10        The functions of MLG are carried out by the Inspectorate,
Engineering, Medical, Planning, and Administration and Establishment
Departments, all stationed at MLG headquarters in Kampala. The overseeing of
local authorities in the field is undertaken at the District level. While in
theory MLG has an important function in supervising and enhancing local
authority financial management, its role in practice has been largely
ineffective. Like the urban authorities it is supposed to supervise, it
suffers from a serious lack of trained management and technical staff,
equipment, supplies, transport and budget allocations. As a consequence most
of its responsibilities enumerated above are not done with the effectiveness
they require. There is, therefore, a need to provide technical assistance,
training and commodity support for MLG under the project, with priority given
to strengthening the financial management of local authorities.
C. Physical Planninx Department
5.11        Uganda's institutional capacity for physical planning lies within
the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MOHUD) as a result of a
ministry reorganization in 1981. The structure of the Physical Planning
Department drawn up in 1981 included the provision for 63 posts under a Chief
Planner in three sections, one each for urban planning, regional planning, and
research. It has never been officially implemented and the capacity of the
unit, staffed by less than 20 people, has been severely constrained by a
desperate lack of resources. What little capacity exists is hampered by the
shortcomings of the regulations and procedures governing the preparation of
urban land use plans: i) the assumption of spatial determinism; ii) the lack
of investment planning accompanying the physical design stage; and iii) the
isolation of the urban authorities from plan preparation. In 1989 RCC began
the process of establishing a Town Planning Department, separate from the City
Engineer's Department, staffed with one planner seconded from PPD and a land
surveyor. Both PPD and RCC's capacity for urban investment planning will be
strengthened under the Project (Para. 3.09).



- Si -
D. Institute of Public Adminstration
5.12        The Institute of Public Administration was formed in 1967 and is
the basic training agency for Ugandan civil servants including those serving
in local governments. While it is under the supervision of the Ministry of
Public Service and Cabinet Affairs, there have been recent discussions within
Government of making it an autonomous parastatal with more self-financing
responsibilities. IPA started as a local government training institute
operating in a building on its present site that was donated by a local
business and used as its training venue. Central government training was
added later when the facility was expanded, through outside donor support, to
include hostels for 150 residential students and classroom facilities to
accommodete 250.
5.13        By the end of 1982, IPA had trained nearly 16,000 government
officials and officers but some of the courses were dismantled in the mid-
1980's and IPA, for this and other reasons fell, on hard times until recently.
In 1987 the British government gave IPA a major grant to undertake a much
needed renovation of its physical plant and continues to invest in long term
training opportunities for its younger teaching staff. Phase II of the
infrastructure program is under consideration by the British Government and
will include continued renovation of the main facilities and staff housing.
The one facility not included in their plans is the Annex which would be
renovated under the project so it could be utilized as a local government
resource center.
5.14        IPA started a residential diploma course in local government
Administration in 1984 patterned after several other diploma programs it
continues to offer. This nine month course has since decreased in its ability
to attract quality students and only 15 are in attendance this program year.
IPA's most popular course is one which is sponsored by the British Government
and co-directed by Makerere University and Glasgow Polytechnic. This three
months cor.rse, started in 1984, is directed toward senior government
accounting and auditing officers. Out of the thirty participants enrolled in
the course this year, nearly half are from local governments. The top
students each year are attached to Strathclyde Regional College where they
also attend a "training of trainers' course conducted by London College.
Three of XCC's senior officers are graduates of the course and were also
involved in the Strathclyde attachments.
5.15        IPA currently has 40 established teaching posts, of which 15 are
vacant, and a supporting staff of 30. Six of the 25 faculty members are
specialists in local government finance, administration and development. The
institution also benefitted from the recent World Bank Public Service
Performance Improvement Project with a purchase of much needed printing
equipment. This printing capability will be a valuable asset in setting up
any decentralized local government training program in Uganda.



- 32 -
S. ProJect Coordination Unit
5.16        In order to prepare and implement the first IDA-financed Water
Supply Project (Credit 1510-UG), a temporary Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
was set up under the Ministry of Mineral and Water Development. It proved to
be instrumental in the smooth execution of the project and now consists of
staff with experience in administering Bank projects. It has been agreed with
Governmenu that the PCU should serve the same purpose for the Second Water
Supply Project as well as the proposed First Urban Project, providing its
services not only for IDA but also for all other donors participating in the
projects. In recognition of the multi-sectoral concern of these new projects,
the PCU has been transferred directly under the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development.   The PCU works closely with the concerned ministries,
departments and agencies, handing over project-related tasks as and when they
can be managed by the responsible party.
5.17.       The PCU is fully staffed (with the exception of a municipal
engineer) and is responsible for procurement of works, goods and consultant
services, evaluation of bids, review of studies, assistance in obtaining
import licenses, work permits, checking of invoices and preparation of
disbursement applications, monitoring project funds and reporting. It will
keep project expenditure accounts, separately for each credit-receiving
institution and will have these accounts audited. The PCU reports to the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development and is controlled by a steering
committee which consists of representatives of ministries involved in the
Project (Chart 2). It was agreed that a municipal engineer to the PCU
satisfactory to the Association would be in post as a condition of
effectiveness (Para. 8.05). Funds for the municipal engineer have been
included in the Second Water Supply Project (Credit 2124-UG).



- 33 -
VI. FINCIAL AMWLYSIS
A. Past and Present Financial Performance of BCC
6.01    Analysis of the past financial performance of KCC is hampered by the
lack of basic accounting data (Para. 5.06). Nevertheless, an approximate
statement of affairs for FY1988, FY1989 and FYl990 is shown in Table 6.1
below.
Table 6.1
Summary of Financial Statements
(U Sh '000's)
FY 1988      FY 1989            FY 1990
Operating Income                  351,000       875,000           1,606,000
Operating Costs                   276,000        754,000          1,606,000
Operating Surplus for year         75,000        121,000
Less:
Cash not banked and unrecorded
transfers from bank                55,000           -
Total Surplus                      20,000        121,000
Net Fixed Assets               14,289,000    14,114,000          13,965,000
Current Assets                     38,000        324,000             112,000
Current Liabilities                47,000        241,000              29,000
Net Current Assets                 (9,000)        83,000              83,000
Total Assets                   14,289,000    14,197,000          14,048,000
Sources Consultants estimates
6.02     The revenue base in the past has been very weak; estimated revenues
for PY1987 amounted to only U Sh 65 million, or U Sh 92 per capita, increasing
to an estimated U Sh 351 million in FY1988. Major reasons for the low level
of revenues weres (a) inadequacy of the accounting procedures and lack of
controls in KCC; (b) very poor collection performance; (c) lack of qualified
manpower to run KCC's divisions; and (d) no revaluation of properties since
1982 and consequently values, forming the basis for the rating system, were
completely out of date.



- 34 -
6.03      In FY1989, revenue collection increased to U Sh 875 million, thereby
doubling the amount estimated in the budget for the financial year. Since
there were no increases in rates, charges and dues, the increase in revenue
can be attributed to the employment of more qualified personnel in key posts
within the Finance Department, as well as higher efficiency in billing and
collection, the reorganization of revenue-generating taxi parks, and improved
market administration.
6.04      Further improvements are expected to be achieved during  PY1990,
with estimated total revenues increasing to U Sh 1,606 million. The original
income estimates for the year were based on the assumption that proposed
increases in various charges would be implemented as of October 1, 1989, i.e.,
at the beginning of the year. In actual fact, the new charges were not
approved until Harch 1990 and after significant reductions made by KCC
Councillors and the Ministry of Commerce. In order to ensure that KCC's rates
and charges remain buoyant with inflation it was agreed during appraisal that
GOU would permit KCC to increase in a timely manner charges and fees for
municipal services to cover the real cost of providing the services (Para.
8.03). This was confirmed during negotiations.
6.05     Rates.  Revenue generated by prop-rty rates should be the single
largest source of income to KCC. The essentlal facts relating to the rating
system in the KCC area at present are as follows:
(a)      In FY1988 income from rates amounted to U Sh 7.5 million out of a
total from all locally generated sources of about U Sh 351 million
or about 22 of the total income, very much less than graduated tax
(552), market rents sad dues (272) and licenses (7?). The rating
system now collects an average of U Sh 10 per head, compared to
Graduated Tax which collects U Sh 363 per head;
(b)      The last major revaluation of Kampala properties occurred in 1982.
At that time valuation lists for 12 of the 15 districts produced
about 27,500 entries. No supplementary valuation lists have been
prepared since 1982 and it is, therefore, likely that many
existing properties are missing from the valuation lists. In
addition, the assessed property values are well out of date now
due to inflation, in some cases by a factor of more than 30;
(c)     A rate of 15? is set.  This is less than the legal maximum of 202.
Based on the estimate of the total rateable value in the 1982
lists being about U Sh 1,000 million, the theoretical amount
collectable is U Sh 150 million. The amount collected is thus
only 52 of the potential revenue. The full costs of valuation and
collection almost certainly exceed the yield. The rating system,
therefore, makes no net contribution to revenues; and



- 35 -
(d)      Payments to KCC in lieu of rates by Government bodies are woefully
in arrears, further straining the capacity of the City to provide
badly needed public services; during negotiations, a timetable was
agreed with IDA for settlement of all arrears in rates owed to KCC
on all properties owned by Government, parastatals and Government-
controlled Boards (Para. 8.03). It was agreed that all arrears,
estimated to be U Sh 1.5 billion, will be paid by June 30, 1992.
6.06        Since July 1989, GOU and KCC, aware of the need for major
increases in the flow of revenue to the City, have undertaken a number of
measures to strengthen the rates system.  Firstly, KCC has revalued two Rating
Zones (Mbuya, and the Central Business District).  Comparison of the old and
updated lists of properties for the two zones are given in Table 6.2. The
increase in estimated rates income from Mbuya by a factor of 500 is attributed
to the fact that the zone was last revalued in 1970.   Secondly, KCC has
started an interim program of provisional rating based on a system of mass
appraisal by which all residential buildings in Kampala are classified
according to six types with a fixed rate, calculated on a sliding scale,
payable for each type. The data was collected by RC chairman at the village
Table 6.2
Change in Rateable Values in Kampala (1982-1989)
Zone        No of Properties               Estimated Rates
(U Sh 000's)
1982        1989               1982        1989
Mbuya       2,000        1,865             154          77,632
Central     2,710       2,635           20,544      1,193,700
Sources KCC Treasurer's Report, May 1990.
level. At the time of project appraisal the exercise was half complete.
Based on the estimated 60,000 dwellings in 800 villages within the city with
an average annual flat rate payable of U Sh 5,000, KCC envisages generating
more than U Sh 1.2 billion in the medium term. In furtherance of efforts to
boost municipal revenue and as an indication of comuitment by KCC to
strengthening its revenue base, RCC carried out the following action plan
prior to negotiations:
(a)   brought the new Central Business District valuation on stream for
billing and collection;
(b)   continued the improvement in efficiency in billing and collection
in respect of the 1982 valuation lists and Mbuya;



- 36 -
(c)   sent out demand notes on the basis of the provisional rating by-
laws to 20,000 residential properties in FY1990; and
(d)   have collected the equivalent of U Sh 115 million in the form of
rates by September 30, 1990; (Para. 8.02).
The proposed project would finance the revamping of the rating system by
establishing a District Valuation Office within KCC, amending the law as
required to ensure that the rate can be set at a realistic level, extensive
training of a cadre of local valuation assistants followed by a comprehensive
revaluation of Kampala properties and improvements to billing and collection
methods (Annex 6). It is anticipated that in FY1993194, the first full year
of the revamped system, iCC will receive U Sh 2,600 million (1990 value) from
rates, by far the largest single source of revenue.
6.07        Graduated Tax.  At present, the principal source of Kampala's
locally generated revenue is the graduated tax which is a modified poll tax
payable by all males over 18, whether or not employed, and women over 18 in
formal employment. The dues vary from a minimum of U Sh 300 payable
(regardless of income) and a maximum of U Sh 5,000 payable if the income
exceeds U Sh 47,050. The upper income limit was fixed at the comparatively
low threshold which coincided with the bottom limit at which income tax
becomes payable. Since the Budget in July 1989 raised the threshold for
payment of income tax to U Sh 250,000, the top limit and amounts payable for
graduated tax could be similarly adjusted. The performance of graduated tax
is difficult to assess by any properly objective criteria due to the
inadequacy of the accounting procedures and lack of controls in KCC but the
impression is that it performs well. The cost yield ratio appears low at 32.
The coverage of the population appears good with a reputed 180,000 taxpayers.
The population of Kampala is estimated to be 700,000 of whom half might be
children and a quarter women not in formal employment; this would indicate a
near maximum coverage. Success is due to three factors: (a) collection at the
source from employers; (b) the public acceptance of that tax; and (c) the use
of the receipt cards as identity documents. The tax collected per annum in
1988 was U Sh 254 million or the equivalent of U Sh 363 per head.
6.08        Other Locally Generated Sources of Revenue.   At present, the
second largest source of revenue for Kampala, after the graduated tax, is
income from market dues, market rents and licenses on businesses from which
U Sh 125 million was collected in 1988. KCC is well aware of the potential
additional revenue that could be generated by increasing rents and dues to
market levels and by tightening control on collection. Ground rents and
reversions payable under the Land Reform Decree offer little in the way of
revenue, amounting to U Sh 10 million in 1988. KCC holds the records for
5,600 sites but only demands payment from those where the rent exceeds U Sh
10,000 per annum, i.e., about 1,200 plots.
6.09       An unduly large proportion of locally generated tax is at present
paid by the poor. The higher income groups, unlike the lower income groups,
do pay central government income taxes but the levels are not excessive.
There seems to be good reason for spreading the burden of paying for local
revenues in a more equitable manner. The most obvious means of introducing a



- 37 -
greater measure of equity in the distribution of the local tax burden is to
renovate the rating system (Para. 6.05).
B. Recent Improvements in General Accounting
6.10        There have been improvements in the financial managements of KCC
in the following areas: control of revenue collection, internal audit,
processing of data, stores accounting, and management information system.
6.11        There has been some improvement in the control of the mechanized
accounting system, but the accounting sections have not yet reached the stage
of proving the accounts by means of a monthly trial balance. In addition, the
control of ledger cards has improved. For FY1989/90 all proof sheets are
available, thus enabling the reconciliation of data processed.
6.12        Cash income is now summarized monthly by collection points.  From
March 1, 1990 this has been reconciled to individual cashiers summaries. This
has enabled the reconciliation of cash collected to cash banked and it will
facilitate the control of cashiers by means of monthly statistics. There has
been a major improvement in the control of revenue collections and bankings.
From March 1, 1990, the Principal Assistant City Treasurer/Revenue has taken
over the responsibility of the combined cashiers collection and deposit book
and the production of monthly cash income control totals.
6.13    There is also some improvement in the treatment of creditors.
outstanding debts were calculated at the end of the FY1988189 and efforts were
made to process all overdue accounts payable during the first month of the
FY1989190.
6.14    The allocation of wages and salaries to the spending accounts is now
correctly undertaken. However, there is still no reconciliation of salary and
wage control accounts.
6.15 Fevertheless, the delayed implementation of the new charges for
FY1989190 (Para. 6.04) combined with the lack of a realistic balance of
working capital has resulted in the incurring of a bank overdraft equivalent
to approximately one-fifth of the total operating income of FY1989190. Actual
expenditure is, therefore, dictated by the present cash crisis, resulting in a
day-to-day cash management basis. During negotiations, assurances were given
that GOU will place limitations on KCC's use of bank overdraft facilities
(Para. 8.03). RCC's use of credit for recurrent expenditure will be limited
to the equivalent of two months revenue calculated on the basis of total
revenue collected during the preceding financial year.
C. Financial Forecasts
6.16      Projections of RCC's financial performance over the period FY1990 to
FY1996 together with the underlying assumptions are shown in Annex 14. Since
the analysis of past performance indicated that accounts for recent years are



- 38 -
not a meaningful base for projections, the revised bvdget for FY1990, ending
September 30, 1990 was used instead.   Thus, base year operating expenditures
more accurately reflect the needs of RCC than figures from previous years
which do not reflect deferred expenses. In view of the drop in the rate of
exchange from U Sh 60 in May 1987 to U Sh 372 to the US dollar in May 1990 and
combined with the erratic rate of inflation, projections have been made in
constant prices to avoid having to predict the rate of inflation.
6.17        The projections still contain a number of uncertainties.  It is
assumed that: (a) KCC will start to implement the provisional rating in
FY89190 and from FY1993 onwards all rateable properties are identified and
revaluation is completed including the impact of changing the Local Government
Rating Decree of December 1979; (b) market fees and dues, etc. will be
increased to cope to a certain degree with the rate of inflation; and (c)
collection efficiency, based on the maximum achievable total income, including
revenue generated by the project, will increase as follows:
FY90 - 27 percent
FY91 - 37 percent
FY92 - 47 percent
FY93 - 56 percent
FY94 - 87 percent
FY95 onwards = 92 percent.
The projections assume a general climate of economic stabilization, decreasing
inflation and economic growth. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the collection efficiencies outlined above will be observed as targets
for KCC's financial performance (Para. 8.03).
6.18        During project implementation, the highest increase in revenues is
expected in FY1993194 from the renovation of the rating system, which then
will contribute about 50 percent of KCC's total income. Consequently, the
burden of paying for local revenues is spread in a more equitable manner
between the poor and the better off. Internal cash generation will be
sufficient to cover full operating costs plus some moderate investments, as
well as future debt service of the loan incurred under the on-lending
agreement and KWC's contribution to the local costs.
6.19        In terms of annual revenue raised per capita, there will be a
considerable increase over the years of the project period. Table 6.3 below
shows the projected growth of Kampala's population and the increase of annual
revenues of KCC per capita. Given the estimated increase in population by
about 35? over the period, the increase of revenue per capita at 370? over the
same period shows the potentially significant impact of the project on revenue
generation. This compares with US$9.60 per capita in Nairobi, Kenya (1986)
measured in constant dollars.



- 39 -
Table 6.3
Development of Revenue per Canita
Population  1!                       Revenue Per Capita 5USS)
Year
1989  700,000                              3.10
1990  747,000                              5.40
1991  784,000                              7.10
1992  824,000                              8.40
1993  856,000                             11.10
1994  908,000                             14.60
1995  953,000                             14.60
11    Population figures taken from Staff Appraisal Report No 8254-UG, Second
Water Supply Project, Uganda, March 1990.
D. Project Cost Recovery
6.20        The following principles of cost recovery are to be applied to the
various elements of the project:
(a)   those costs which are normally recovered by public
authorities in the form of tariffs or user charges would be
similarly recovered (e.g., water, electricity, refuse
collection at public markets);
(b)   all site development costs at Kawaala for on-site
infrastructure including engineering design and supervision
would be borne directly by beneficiaries in respect of
private plots. Costs relating to public areas such as sites
for schools and comunnity facilities would be borne by KCC;
(c)   urban services to be provided to private plot holders in
Kawaala by KCC would be recovered through property rates
(e.g., street lighting, refuse collection).
6.21        Kawaala Sites and Services Scheme.  Investment and recurrent
service costs at Kawaala would be recovered as per Para. 6.19 above.
6.22        Kampala Road Rehabilitation Program.  The investment costs
associated with the road rehabilitation program would be recovered through
rates and general revenues. They are not good candidates for direct cost
recovery because beneficiaries and the value of individual benefits are, in
general, impossible to identify. The collection of road tolls is already
being carried out by the Ministry of Finance.
6.23        Rehabilitation of RAmpala's Solid Waste System.  Collection
charges will first be introduced for services at markets, industrial



- 40 -
enterprises, institutions, business and high income areas. Investment costs
would be recovered by these charges and general revenues. It is anticipated
that the cleansing section would eventually be given some level of autonomy
over its own operations, with a separate budgeting and accounting center. As
the KCC's accounting system does not presently identify the costs associated
with the provision of various services, the establishment of the cost center
for public cleansing will be a first step in accounting for all costs
associated with an individual service. This is expected to provide the basis
for setting collection charges more in line with actual costs incurred.
6.24        Rehabilitation of the rating system.  The initial investment cost
of revamping the rating system will be recovered more than eight times within
the first five years of the program with recurring benefits thereafter.
6.25        Improvement of Kampala's Urban Markets.  The upgrading of the
markets as described in Annex 1, coupled with [CC's policy of closing down
illegal markets, will attract more customers. This will result in a greater
turnover of goods and higher revenues to RCC through daily dues.
6.26       Cost recovery for project components is summarized in Table 6.4.
Nearly 701 of project costs are allocated and are, therefore, eligible for
recovery from specific sources of revenue under the control of [CC. The
remaining 301 of the project costs, including the technical assistance,
training, mapping of Kampala and project preparation costs will be recovered
from central government revenue.



- 41 -
Table 6.4
Project Cost Recovery 1/
Project Component                    Cost              Method of
(US$ 0008)        Recovery
Allocable
A. KCC Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. Urban markets                     6,461             Rents and dues
2. Solid waste management            6,439              Tariffs and rates
3. Streets and drains                7,913             Rates
4. Office/mechanical workshop          338             Rates
B. Urban Land Development
1. Kawaala site servicing
Public areas            1,380              Rates
Private areas           3,221              Plot loans,
user charges
Subtotal allocable                  25,751              (672)
Non-allocable
1. Kampala mapping                   1,335             Central       )
2. Urban development planning        1,688             Government   )
3. MLG/KCC technical assistance/ )                     Revenue       )
training, vehicles, equipment)                                   )
and tools                     ) 6.962                            )
4. MLG office rehabilitation           332                           )
5. Project preparation               2,432                           )
Subtotal non-allocable              12,749              (33Z)
Total                  38,500
1/ All costs include price and physical contingencies
E. Affordability
6.27        During appraisal, it was established that the proposed project
would be financially viable to KCC under the following conditions:
(a)   GOU passing on US$21.2 million or 74U of the IDA credit as a loan
under terms as outlined in para 4.02; and



- 42 -
(b)   GOU passing on US$4.5 million or 15Z of the IDA credit in the form
of a grant;
(c) DCC and GOU each financing half of the local contribution to the
project.
The affordability of the project to KCC is demonstrated by the fact that
Kampala's financial projections show net revenues in the third year of project
implementation (Annex 14).
6.28        It was found that households earning a minimum monthly income of
about U Sh 36,000 (US$91 per month) could afford to purchase a Type A plot
(200 m2) in tile Kawaala scheme, since the downpayment of 10 percent was about
U Sh 48,000 (JS$118) and the monthly repayment was U Sh 11,000 (US$27 p.m.)
including re:urrent charges or about 30 percent of income.  Proposed
financing t rms are set to match those under consideration for the Namuwongo
scheme, a project vhich is receiving assistance from Shelter Afrique and
Habitat: that is, 15 years repayment including one year grace, and 20 percent
interest. This is a subsidized rate since the May 1990 inflation level were
about 30 percent. Present trends suggest that inflation is coming down and
interest rates will follow so that these schemes will become replicable over
time (Annex 5, Appendix 3).



- 43 -
VIz. zCONOaIC AULYSIS
A. Prmaury Proiect Justification
7.01        The project is the first comprebensive effort to redress many
years of neglect and deterioration of urban services and infrastructure in
Kampala, while restoring KCC's financial and operational capability. The
project would improve public health, urban dwellings, transport and income
earning opportunities in Kampala, in particular for the urban poor including
those earning their living in the informal sector. The project would also
establish the framework for Kampala's future growth in an orderly and
efficient manner through proper planning and priority investment programning.
7.02        The project would aim at significant positive social,
institutional and environmental effects, since it is set up as one in a series
of operations to alleviate poverty and the social costs of adjustment.   The
upgrading of major markets will improve environmental and health conditions in
the handling of most of the food consumed in Kampala as well as reestablish
the city's authority over this important revenue source. The urban poor would
benefit in the form of healthier food and less illness-related work
interruption. The rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, drains and
footpaths will ease motorized, non-motorized and pedestrian traffic, in
particular along major public transport routes and access roads to previously
neglected lower income, high density areas of the city, and will create
employment. Improved solid waste collection and disposal will improve
environmental conditions, add to the cleanliness and attractive appearance of
the city, will have an important public health impact and will create
additional employment as well. The development of a pilot sites and services
area will help reduce the housing shortage for middle income groups provided
with the opportunity to build moderately priced houses and for low income
groups for whom there would be opportunities for privately-owned rental
accommodation within the scheme.   The development will increase KCC's
experience in managing sites and services projects, and, provided interest
rates return to reasonable levels, set a replicable model for future
development of residential areas in Kampala and other towns.
7.03        Improvements in financial and administrative management combined
with the mobilization of higher revenues, should enable KCC to provide a
higher level of services without causing a financial burden on the central
government. By FY1993, KCC will have revamped its property tax system and
will be receiving U Sh 2,600 million per annum, an increase of more than ten
times in real terms the amount of rates actually collected in 1989. This
amount excludes rates arrears owed by public entities, the collection of which
will be done under the Project. The Project will lead to the reestablishment
and strengthening of an array of revenue collection techniques by which KCC
can generate the income it requires to expand and maintain public urban
services without resort to central government financial support. It is
anticipated that continued improvement will be made in the administration and
management of KCC finances by means of an innovative training approach
involving the establishment of a Ugandan-based training resource center for



- 44 -
local government under the aegis of MLG. RCC, operating in conjunction with a
twinning arrangement with an overseas local authority and supported by the
resource center, will also enhance its management skills in clearly defined
operational areas such as road maintenance, solid waste management, market
administration, and housing development.
7.04        The innovative approach for the institutional development of local
authorities would also be used to strengthen the financial management of other
towns as well as strengthen the monitoring and support capabilities of the
Ministry of Local Government, thus setting the stage for possible future
improvements in other urban areas.
7.05        Throughout the project, least cost solutions including emphasis on
maintenance, rehabilitation and use of appropriate technology including self-
help and community efforts, have been given preference so as to ensure that
scarce investment resources will generate the highest possible economic rates
of return. The project components have been chosen in such a manner that
their results are mutually reinforc'ng.
D. Economic and Other Benefits
General
7.06        Several but not all components lend themselves to a calculation of
economic benefits in terms of real resources created versus real costs
incurred. Those that cannot be quantified include institution building which
would contribute to, but could not be isolated as the sole factor leading to,
improvements in municipal services. Similarly, public health improvements are
clearly an important positive project output, but analytical methods to
quantify this impact do not exist. The economic rates of return by component,
where appropriate, are described below, together with their non-quantifiable
benefits.
Kawaala Sites and Services Scheme
7.07        The most direct benefits of the Kawaala sites and services project
would be improved living conditions for about 12,500 persons through the
provision of about 1,000 plots which could eventually accommodate about 1,750
dwellings. This would mean a 7 percent reduction in pent-up housing demand,
estimated in 1989 at about 15,000 units. The low and lowerlmiddle income
groups would be the principal beneficiaries. Measured in terms of imputed
incremental rent, this project component yields an economic rate of return of
13.5 percent. With a ten percent increase in costs, the ERR decreases
slightly to 12 percent and with a ten percent decrease in benefits, to 11.8
percent.
7.08        The project will contribute to some extent to more equitable
distribution of well-being. Within the 1,000 plots, 750 plots of about 200 m2
each are expected to be affordable for the lowerlmiddle income group, earning
about U Sh 36,000 or more p.m., (Para. 6.27) while 250 plots of 300m2 and 400
mZ and 0.83 ha of shops and market plots will be sold in the open market to



- 45 -
middle and higher income households and traders. (The minimum living income
for a Kampala household is estimated at U Sh 30,000 p.m. and such a small
household would often rent one room for about U Sh 5,000 p.m.).
7.09        Benefits during construction of infrastructure and dwellings will
include employment generated by the scheme in building materials production,
transport and sale as well as on site construction work. The allottees on the
smaller plots will probably build their dwellings through self-help or
community efforts, involving informal sector workers. Benefits after
construction include increased incomes of allottees who decide to initially
rent out one to three rooms in the original dwelling. Since it is foreseen
that water supply will change from standpipes to house connections after about
20 years, a second dwelling could be constructed on a 200 m2 plot which would
provide a permanent rental income.
7.10        Because of the strong housing demand, middle and higher income
groups are likely to eventually take over the ownership of houses in Kawaala,
as has happened in sites and services schemes elsewhere in East Africa;
original allottees who will be selected from the lowerlmiddle income group
will enjoy the economic rent in case they sell after the prescribed period of
tenure. They will benefit through an increase in their assets. This will
include bona fide present low income residents in the area who will be allowed
to retain their present location or get preference in the allocation of plots.
Priority Markets
7.11        Taking into account the investment in improved infrastructure
services (including footpaths, road works, water supply, sanitation,
electricity, fencing, sheds, and office accommodation), shadow-pricing the
local cost component at U Sh 600/US$l.00 and assuming that the magnitude of
economic benefit is reflected in the incremental rental income received by
vendors who sub-let their stalls, the improvement of urban markets yields an
EnR of 23 percent. As stated above, this is only a small portion of total
benefits of the project component which include health and vehicle operating
costs benefits described in the following paragraphs.
7.12        The Kampala market system forms a hierarchy where only a few large
markets perform wholesale and most of the 60 markets perform mixed or retail
functions. The proposed activities in three prototype markets, one central,
one secondary wholesale/retail and one retail market, represent the first
systematic attempt in many years to support its spontaneous development in
directions likely to serve the Kampala population best. No fundamental
changes are considered necessary in locations or hierarchy; it is, however,
expected that if RCC improves the premises and services in existing formal
markets and makes them more hygienic and efficient, the quality of products
traded as well as the quantity will increase. Hence, suppliers delivering
goods to market and vendors operating in the markets would be willing and able
to pay somewhat higher dues and rents than before. It is also expected that
the customers will continue to buy in the upgraded formal markets because they
will value the expected improved quality and selection of goods, in particular
of fresh produce.



- 46 -
7.13        An important part of the benefits of market improvements consists
of public health improvements. The proposed project investments in roads,
drains, footpaths, shelters and toilets, together with better administration,
operation and maintenance, would significantly reduce the very unhygienic
conditions in the three selected pilot markets which present serious health
hazards. It is expected that cleaner markets will mean cleaner produce for
the consumers, cleaner working conditions for vendors and market personnel,
hence less illness and higher job attendance and productivity. (The large
amounts of waste materials generated in markets are another health risk, dealt
with in Para. 7.16 below).
7.14        In addition to the public health benefits which are shared by
suppliers, vendors and the general public, better access to the markets and
more efficient arrangements for loading and off-loading and produce handling
mean savings in vehicle operating costs as well as suppliers and customers
time. In a developing country with presumably high levels of unemployment and
underemployment, the vehicle operating costs are more important than the time
element.
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
7.15        The proposed 3-year program for the  maintenance of a core network
of city roads by reestablishing the Highways and Drainage Division of KCC City
Engineer's Department will have an ERR in excess of 302 percent as presented
in Annex 15. The benefits occur in the form of deferred maintenance costs
created by delaying the time for major street rehabilitation. The actual
return will be determined on an annual basis beginning in 1991, with the
submission of the first in a series of three annual detailed maintenance
programs by KCC. Incremental inputs include the modest rehabilitation of four
maintenance depots, performance allowances for KCC workers, road maintenance
materials, equipment, plant and tools totalling US$0.9 million for routine
maintenance plus contractor-executed periodic road maintenance totalling
US$5.0 million, measured in May 1990 base costs (Annex 3).
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
7.16        Improvements in solid waste collection services are rarely
justified on economic terms, as revenues from the services provided in most
cases cover only a part (50-70X) of the total costs. Services such as street
sweeping, cleaning of drainage channels, parks and other public areas cannot
easily be charged to specific user groups or beneficiaries, but are benefits
enjoyed by the public in general. Refuse services are considered to confer
significant positive externalities, such as improved environmental conditions,
cleaner and more pleasant surroundings, less nuisance from insects, vermin,
and rodents, less pollution, smoke and environmental damage around disposal
sites, greater employment opportunities, and the convenience of a service
generally expected in an urban area. The indirect benefits of these
externalities are difficult or impossible to quantify. The employment impact
from refuse collection is quantifiable, and normally ranges from 5 to 50 pe-~
10,000 residents, depending on service coverage and collection system.
Scavenging alone will typically engage about 10 per 10,000 residents.



- 47 -
Overall Prolect
7.17        The weighted average ERR for the project for components for which
benefits could be quantified at the time of project appraisal and which amount
to about 51 of the total project costs is 242. The detailed calculations of
the ERRs are shown in Annex 15.
C. Impact on Women
7.18        The project will benefit womenle living conditions and employment,
especially in the lower income groups. They will share in the health
improvements following from sanitary measures in the markets and refuse
handling and from more efficient water provision in Kawaala and will also get
more employment opportunities. Better health will allow them to be more
efficient at home and productive in the workplace and cut down absenteeism.
There are recent examples in Uganda of women setting up small informal
enterprises such as brick making and trading in response to growing demand,
which could be replicated, and more women retail traders are likely to serve
the expanding population in Kawaala. In addition to self employment, the
women are also expected to participate in the increase in labor employment
resulting from the project.
D. Environmental Impact
7.19        The project has been classified as a category B project for
purposes of determining the appropriate level of environmental screening
required as part of project preparation. Four fifths of the investment in
physical infrastructure will be directed towards rehabilitation of existing
systems, improvement in operations and limited upgrading of facilities. Most
of the project components will have a definite positive effect and none will
have an adverse effect on the environment. However, there will be a
resettlement component at Kawaala for which an acceptable resettlement plan
will be required to be submitted by Government as a condition of credit
disbursement (Para. 4.20).
7.20        All road maintenance works will occur within existing rights of
way and will have no effect on current land uses. The improvement in routine
street maintenance will considerably increase road safety and contribute to a
lessening of road accidents; the rehabilitation of streetside drains will
reduce overflow of rain waters with commensurate reduction in soil erosion
along the street alignment.
7.21        The highly organic nature of Kampala's refuse is such that a
modest level of sanitary landfilling will ensure environmental integrity.
Consultant studies indicate that the disposal of solid waste at the three
existing refuse dumps does not appear to cause water pollution. However,
there is the potential for contamination of a well adjacent to the Lugogo
Bypass site and protective measures will be taken before continuing tipping.
The upgrading of the three existing sites will be carried out in a manner
which ensures that the runoff of surface water is controlled and that leachate
will be collected in sumps for subsequent appropriate disposal.   Access to



- 48 -
the sites will be controlled to reduce the opportunity for children and others
to be exposed to hazards. Mulago Hospital's capacity to incinerate hazardous
medical waste will be more than doubled with the installation of a second
incinerator, thus reducing the risk of spread of infectious diseases,
including AIDS.
S. Community Participation
7.22        KCC has already started and will continue to organire active
participation of the general public and the directl.y affected groups. This
includes the establishment of Market Management Committees as a means of
bringing market vendors associations, Resistance Committees and consumers into
the market management process, seeking the certification of eligible residents
in Kawaala by involving Resistance Committees, and sensitizing the public to
the needs and requirements of the new refuse service offered. KCC has also
encouraged residents to form 'water committees', under the guidance of the
RCs, for the purpose of obtaining water from metered public stand pipes under
the terms of an agreement with NWSC whereby monthly water bills are paid
directly by the community group without KCC1s involvement.
F. Proiect Risks
7.23        The main risks affecting the project concern the effectiveness of
the two key implementing agencies, KCC and MLG, given that they are emerging
from a long period of institutional deterioration. KCC is facing a shortage
of qualified staff and political constraints to rapid increases in municipal
taxes, rates and charges. The Ministry suffers from low salary levels and
overall central government budgetary constraints.  However, KCC has already
made dramatic progress in the past year in recruiting qualified staff and
increasing revenue. In addition, the proposed components of technical
assistance and training in this project, together with macro-economic measures
designed to continue overall economic recovery supported by I   :estructuring
operations, are expected to mitigate these risks.



- 49 -
VIII. AGREZHENSS REACHED AND REOMMENDATION
A. Actions Already Taken
8.01        By negotiations the Government had:
(a)   dec'ared Kawaala a planning (action) area under Section 33 of the
Town and Country Planning Act (1964) (Para. 3.11);
(b)   prepared to advertise for the recruitment of a municipal engineer
mutually acceptable to the Government and IDA, to be attached to
the PCU (Para. 5.17); and
(c)   prepared and submitted to IDA a list of land to be compulsorily
acquired in the interest of the project and confirmed the
availability of the land required (Para. 4.19).
8.02        KCC had, by negotiations, carried out the following action plan:
(a)   brought new Central Business District valuation on stream for
billing and collection;
(b)   continued the improvement in efficiency in billing and collection
in respect of the 1982 valuation lists and Mbuya;
(c)   sent out demand notes on the basis of the provisional rating by-
laws to at least 20,000 properties in 1990; and
(d)   have collected the equivalent of at least U Sh 115 million in the
form of rates by September 30, 1990 (Para. 6.05);
B. Agreements Reached during Negotiations
8.03        During negotiations agreement was obtained regardings
(a)   KCC to have defined and adopted an urban environmental policy
statement with special attention to solid waste management by
April 30, 1992; and improvement by KCC in total tonnage of solid
waste delivered at the landfill sites by 1993 from 7,000m3 per
month to 16,000m3 per month (Para. 3.05);
(b)   KCC submission to IDA, by June 30 or 1991, 1992, and 1993, of its
proposed annual road rehabilitation program including economic
analysis for review (Para. 3.06);
(c) KCC to undertake to send all municipal vehicles to private
workshops for major repairs (Para. 3.07);



- 50 -
(d)   agreement between KCC and MOHUD on a suitable modus operandi to
enable effective training of personnel involved in urban
development planning (Para. 3.09);
(e)   the operating expenses of the primary school to be built at
Kawaala to be adequately budgeted for by KCC (Para 3.11).
(f)   the designation of the building on the IPA compound to be the
local government training and resource center (Para. 3.13);
(g)   PCU will establish, through MLG, a Special Account with a local
commercial bank (Para. 4.15);
(h)   KCC will establish an Advance Account in Uganda shillings to
facilitate disbursement in local currency to cover local costs
(Para. 4.16);
(i)   The implementation schedule for all project components and project
progress reporting requirements (Para. 4.18).
(j)   beneficiary selection criteria for allocating housing plots in
Kawaala (Para. 4.21);
(k)   Government submission of certified copies of project accounts and
annual audit reports to IDA not later than six monthe after the
end of each fiscal year (Para. 4.22);
(1)   Government submission of the appropriate sections of the
completion report, in a form acceptable to the Association, not
later than six months after the closing date of the Credit (Para.
4.24);
(m)   Government permission for KCC to increase in a timely manner user
charges and fees for municipal services to cover the real cost of
providing the services (Para. 6.04);
(n)   a timetable for settlement of all arrears in rates owed to XCC on
all properties owned by Government, parastatals and Government-
controlled Boards (Para. 6.05);
(o) assurances that Government will place limitations on KCC's use of
bank overdraft facilities (Para. 6.15).



- 51 -
(p)   KCC's improvement in revenue collection efficiency, measured as a
percent of total outstanding revenue receivable including arrears
(Para. 6.17):
FY1990             27 percent
FY1991             37 percent
FY1992             47 percent
FY1993             56 percent
FY1994             87 percent
Condition of Disbursement
8.04        During negotiations, agreement was obtained regarding the
condition of disbursement for components requiring the acquisition of land,
viz., that all land required for the project (markets, land development at
Kawaala) will be held in legal title by KCC and that a resettlement and
compensation program satistactory to IDA for current legal occupants will have
been prepared (Para. 4.20). The program will include a timetable for
compensation, priority allocation of plots to bona fide occupants in Kawaala
to be moved under the proposed project and a plan to relocate bona fide
vendors who will be moved around/from Owino market as a result of the
reduction in number of stalls.
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.05        During negotiations agreement was obtained regarding the following
conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and KCC will
have been entered into (Para. 4.02);
(b)   fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of co-financed
loans and grants (Para. 4.04); and
(c)   the municipal engineer for PCU and the accounting development and
training officer for KCC will be in post (Paras. 5.05 and 5.17).
C. Recommendation
8.06        Subject to the above, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of
US$28.7 million equivalent at the standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years. The Borrower would be the Government of Uganda.



ANX 1
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Kampala Urban Markets Rehabilitation Program
A. Background and Project Fonmulation
1.        The city of Kampala is served by 60 urban markets with a total
of more than 16,000 stalls. These facilities cater to the consumption
needs of all segments of the population and have been growing in number in
tandem both with the city's expansion and with the decreasing opportunities
for income generation in non-trade sectors of the urban economy. The
growth in market facilities in recent years has been in the form of
'spontaneous' developments that have materialized in response to population
growth and concomitant public demand. KCC has lacked the resources to
provide for even minimum infrastructure, sanitation, and security
facilities.
2.        The size and spatial distribution of Kampala's markets closely
reflect the pattern of settlement of the city (see IBRD Map 22472). Owino
Market, the city's primary market, serves the densely populated central
sub-district and part of Makindye. Four important secondary markets are
evenly distributed in the four quadrants of the city and are located on
major transportation arteries: Nakawa Market serves Nakawa sub-district,
to the east; Kibuye Market serves Rubaga and part of Makindye, to the west
and south; Natete Market serves Rubaga in the west; and Kalwere Market
serves Kawempe, the most rapidly expanding sub-district of Kampala, to the
north. A fifth secondary market is located on the shore of Lake Victoria
at Gaba and provides for a two-way flow of goods between the city proper
and the Kyagwe Islands near Kampala. Owino Market, consisting of 4,900
stalls serving 30,000 people per day, supplies not only retail consumers in
central Kampala but also wholesale vendors from other points in the overall
market system.   Wholesalers and porters at the secondary markets service,
in turn, the 54 remaining tertiary retail markets which are scattered
around Kampala.
3.        Kampala City Co'ncil (KCC) had by the mid-1960's, established
eleven markets including a hierarchy of designated wholesale and retail
centers, which were well-planned, approved by its Development Committee,
and constructed of permanent materials. During the period of civil
disturbances in the 1970's, however, KCC lacked the funds to support an
ongoing program of planning and constructing additional markets. It
decided, therefore, to maintain control over the planning, development and
regulation of the markets while at the same time encouraging vendors and
traders to construct their own stalls on a self-help basis in accordance
with KCC bye-laws. These were embodied in the Kampala Market By-Laws;
1974. The by-laws prohibited the use of permanent materials on the grounds
that these second-generation markets were temporary in nature and subject
to relocation upon preparation and approval of Development Plan for



ANM  1
Page 2 of 6
Kampala, drafted in 1972 and approved in 1974. It was anticipated that
this Plan would designate the best locations for all new markets.
4.        In fact the Development Plan for Kampala did not address the
location of Kampala's markets. Since then an additional thirty-five so-
called 'un-established' markets have been developed, mostly in the
expanding parts of the city. While many of these were developed under
KCC's authority on KCO-owned land, others were developed on a combination
of KCC and privately-owned (mailo) land. Another fourteen "miscellaneous"
markets and up to twenty illegal markets have been developed since on an ad
hoc basis with little or no KCC involvement. Some of the latter were
developed by co-operative societies (e.g. Bwaise II) on privately-owned
land.
5.        In the past, the absence of any comprehensive planning and
regulation of the food marketing system in Kampala, while posing a risk to
the health and welfare of its inhabitants, has afforded the freedom for
markets to spring up quickly to provide services in those areas where they
are most needed. However, as a negative consequence of their unplanned
development coupled with KCC's financial constraints, most markets now lack
basic infrastructure and sanitary facilities. Older markets have not been
properly maintained and are in need of extensive rehabilitation. In most
instances they have grown beyond their original boundaries occupying
privately owned land or land originally slated for other uses. Despite
their unsanitary, crowded and chaotic environment, urban markets perform an
essential commercial role in the economic life of Kampala, not the least of
which is generating 26? of KCC's total annual revenue (1989), second only
to graduated personal tax.
6.        The current management structure of Kampala's market system
reflects an increasing desire by the KCC to improve revenue from its
markets. In November 1988, responsibility for the markets was transferred
from the Public Health Department to the Treasury Department. Ultimate
responsibility for medium and long term planning rests with the City
Council, while the Treasury Department is now responsible for the day-to-
day management and administration of markets. The Principal Assistant City
Treasurer (PACT) is responsible for overseeing all market revenue
collection.  The PACT oversees the financial and operational administration
of the markets. 'The financial accounting of markets is divided into seven
administrative sections; Nakasero, Nakivubo, Owino, Kololo, Mengo, Nakawa,
and Kavempe. The first four are administered as single markets while the
latter three group all the KCC markets in their geographical areas.
Operational administration is through four geographical groupings;
Nakasero, Namirembe, Katwe, and Nakawa.
7.        The Chief Market Administrator is in charge of planning,
controlling and organizing the KCC market programs. There are five
Assistant Chief Market Administrators, each responsible for one of the
operational sub-groups. Ten Senior Market Administrators are responsible
for either a single large market or a group of smaller markets, reporting
on the financial and administrative conditions in their areas. In 1986,
the Town Clerk appointed a number of special Market Administrators to act
as roving inspectors checking financial operations. The Senior Market



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
Administrators supervise the work of ninety Market Administrators who
collect rents and dues from vendors and transporters, and enforce market
by-laws. They also settle disputes, transport money to the cash office,
and keep records of daily and monthly transactions in their section of the
market. The Senior Market Administrators and Market Administrators are
transferred, to different markets on an annual or semi-annual basis. The
Market Administrators are also responsible for coordinating the activities
of two-hundred and forty four porters and three repairmen. The Prinripal
Health Inspector - Food and Drugs Section manage public health inspectors
assigned to monitor and enforce the provisions of the Public Health Act,
governing the sale of foodstuff.
8.        In recent years market rents and dues have not kept up with
inflation and bore little relation to value of turnover or ability of
vendors to pay. However for 198811989 total estimated revenues from
Kampala's markets were Ushs 200 million, of which Ovino market accounted
for about one third. Expenditures, excluding a proposed Ushs 60 million
allocation for a market rehabilitation fund, have been estimated at about
Ushs 42 million for the same period. This represents a threefold increase
over 1987/88 levels. New rents and dues introduced in April 1990 are
expected to significantly increase revenues from markets even though there
has been some popular resistance to the recent increases without a
commensurate improvement in the level and quality of service.
9.        The proposed market rehabilitation program owes its origin to
KCC's desire to re-establish its financial and administrative control over
the market system in the interests of both public health and the health of
the municipal fiscus. The rehabilitation of markets was identified as a
priority need and subsequent assessment and analysis by consultants engaged
by the Uganda Government, led to the identification of nine markets for
priority upgrading and rehabilitation. The markets were chosen on the
basis of: i) location; ii) land owned by KCC; iii) having potential for
physical expansion; and iv) being representative of a sample of primary,
secondary and tertiary type markets. All nine markets were all in great
need of rehabilitation and reconstructior. and, together, represented almost
three quarters of the stalls in KCC approvedlmanaged market system.
B. Program Objectives
10.       The major goal of the program is to improve the physical
environment and operational efficiency of Kampala's urban market system.
The proposed program will permit KCC to reassert its authority over the
orderly development and management of its markets with a view to improving
the level of service, the quality of administration, and the enhancement of
municipal revenues. The program also establishes a physical planning and
architectural design framework allowing for the gradual improvement of
infrastructure and facilities of the remaining markets as finances permit.



AM,   1
Page 4 of 6
C. Detailed Description of Program
11.       The program provides the following elements:
(a)  a catalog of design improvements for all markets based on a
system of standardized building components including off-loading
and storage sheds, lock-up and open stalls, administrative
offices, gates and fences, arcades, and ablution facilities; the
catalog to include standards of infrastructure services to be
provided to markets;
(b)  a set of site plans for the following nine priority markets
providing better vehicular and pedestrian access, circulation,
sanitation, drainage, and security;
ti)       Owino* (Musupali)         4910   stalls
(ii)      Nakawa                     815
(iii)     Kalvere                    700
(iv)      Kibuye  I                  487
(v)       Gaba                       360  n
(vi)      Nakulabye                  349
(vii)     Kamwokya                   303
(viii)    Bugolobi*                  250
(ix)      Natete*                    202
Sc)  the rehabilitation of Ovino, Natete, and Bugolobi Markets as
being representative of each of the three tiers of the market
system; the rehabilitation consisting of the construction of
minimal new building components located according to the
redesigned site plans together with improved levels of
infrastructure services;
(d)  the provision of selected items of office equipment, furniture,
vehicles and tools for the improved operation of the markets in
(c) above;
(e)  the provision of technical assistance and training for KCC
market workers at all levels of the management structure.
12.       Owino, Natete and Bugolobi Markets will be properly planned and
provided with appropriate access, parking, drainage, and protection from
the elements. Refuse collection will be improved under another component
of the Project. The designs for market spaces and fittings will allow a
variety of vending configurations, taking into account the wide range of
goods to be sold. Vendors will lease space and construct their own stall
fittings within contractor-built divisions to suit their individual needs
and to a minfimum building standard.



£33  1
Page 5 of 6
D. Program Costs and Funding
13.       The total base cost of the urban markets rehabilitation
component is estimated at US$5.3 million, of which the foreign exchange
component is estimated at 792.   These figures exclude technical assistance
and training for market management and operations, estimated at US$0.07 and
included in the package of technical assistance to MCC.    Details of the
program costs are given in Appendix 1.
KAMPALA URBAN MARKETS REHABILITATION
SUMMAY COST ESTIMTES
May IO bass costu (excl aII contlgncloc)
(US 000)
item                             Local  Foreign  Total
Market mnag mnt                       as     141      176
Owino reconstruc*4on                 800   2,046   8,640
Natebe r.conetruction                92      4ff     6o0
Bugolobt reconetruction              124     662      676
Enginering dneign/supervieioo (SS)   C1      19S      244
TOTAL                              1:102   4.201   6,802
14.       It is envisaged that, as MCC finances permit, the city may
undertake the gradual and progressive improvement of the other priority
markets, using its own funds and the designs of similar elements and
components. The only additional work needed would be detailed site plans
and schedules which can use the consultants preliminary plans already
prepared for the remaining six sites (Nakawa, Kibuye I, Kalwere, Nakulabye,
Kamwokya and Gaba).
E. Implementation
15.       ICC will be responsible for implementing the market
rehabilitation program. Civil and building works will be carried out by
contracts procured under ICB. Periodic construction supervision will be
undertaken by consultants selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Co-
ordination of construction will entail the close co-operation and
involvement of all the vendors through the vendors associations. The
Market Management Committees, which have recently been established by MCC
and which include members of the vendors associations, RCs and the general
public will be involved. Construction will be phased so as to minimize the
amount of disruption to ongoing market activities: vendors will need to be
relocated within the markets as works progresses. In the case of Owino,
the final number of stalls will be less than the original number and KCC is
developing a plan to accommodate the overflow in nearby markets.



ANX 1
Page 6 of 6
16.       The designs and construction of the new market facilities allow
for the continuation of the current practice of KCC providing basic
facilities, such as infrastructure (roads, footpaths, drainage, water,
security lighting and perimeter vall, off-loading facilities, and open
sheds) while the vendors would build their own stalls (lockable and open)
on a self help basis.
17.       After construction Market Management Committees will be involved
in reviewing improvements while the vendors associations will be given a
bigger role to play in the day-to-day maintenance of the markets.
In order to improve the service it provides to the public, improve
management, efficiency and revenues derived from the markets, KCC is
undertaking a thorough reorganization of its internal administrative
structure, including upgrading of staff.



An I
Page 1 of 3
KAWALA  UR1M8   MARKETS R     IHAILITATWN
DETAIL COST ESTIMATES
May 1m    base coto   (excluding  elI contingencloe)
(USS 000)
A.                         Vehiel*l/Furnitur./Equtp.ent/Rehab
Ref.              Itow             Rty   UnIt  Local   Foreigq      Total
No.                                      Cost
1.   Pick-ups (half-cabs)            2     S0       0        60        60
2.   PC A printer                    1      8       0         a         a
8.   Safe.                           8      2       0         6         6
4.   Gneral Office Equlpment                        0        12        12
S.   Office Furniture                               5        10        15
6.    Office Refurbishment                         80         0        30
7.   Heavy-duty wheelbarrows       180 0.250        0      82.6      82.5
S.   Shovel                        200 0.025        0         5         5
9.   Brooms                        200 0.015        0         8         8
10.  8oot                          150 0.030        0       4.C       4.5
Total morket manag   nt                            85       141       176
S. Market Reconstruction: Owino
item             qty   Unit  Local   Foreign    Total
coost
-. nfr estruture
Slt  preparation              -      -       S     -             5
Earthworko                     -      -     1o0       240       855
Storm drainage                 -      -      16        42        so
Footpaths                      -      -     117       272       869
Roadworke                      -      -      a1        7        104
Foul sewerage                  -      -       7        17        24
Water supply                   -      -      1S        48        61
Electrical                     -      - ea9                      77
Sub-total Infrastructure                          872       703     1,075
SI. BuiIdings
Sheds
Al                             9  25.6       46       132       226
81                            62  85.15     446     1,79      2,241
Off-loading
Type                           1  165.4       8        13        16
Type S                         2  84.97      14        *6        70
Type 4                         8 U4.41       88       181       168
Lock-up *talls
C                            136   8.24      86       852       441
0                            144   5.38     16        671       @40
E         .                   44  7.20       6s       258       817
Adin offices
Type                           1   7.48       1         6         7
Type 4                         1  20.31       4        17        21
Ares
Typ 1                        265   0.76      42       165       207
Gate/Fence
Type 1.2 (pdo)                 2  18.46       5        22        27
Vehicle gate                   4   2.48       2         a        10
Perimeter                    467  0.21       16        so         6
Toleot4
Various                        4  26.40      28        91       114
Landscaping
Planters/seoting             400  0.06        6        14        20
Sub-total Bul Idld"                               6n    $8,54       4,319
Sub-total lnfra  * Bldg                         1,887     4,604     5,948
Lee: Self-help                              587     1,56m    2,294
Total:  Owino                               *00     2,846     8,64



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
C. Market Reconstruction: Natet                                                     Page 2 of 3
Item                         Qty   Unit  Local    Forelon      Total
Cost           (USS 'ooo)
I. Inf rastructure
Site preparation               -       -       8     -             8
Earthwork.                     -       -       2        14        16
Storm drainag                  -       -      13        29        42
Footpaths                      -       -       6        S1        67
Roadworks                      -       -       0         4         6
Foul sewerage                  -       -       2        19        21
Water supply                   -       -       a        28        81
Electrical                     -          -    1         8         9
Sub-total Infrastructure                            80       153       188
II. Buildings
Stall sheds
Al                             7  26.36       as       142       178
A2                             2  18.28        7        29        87
AS                             6  12.27       12        49        61
off-loading
Type 1                          1  15.64       8        12        16
Lock-up sta lls
A,9,C                         63   3.24       41       183       204
F,G                            9   8.83       16        84        79
Adamn offices
Type l                         2   7.43        8        12        1S
Type S                         1  20.81        4        17        21
Gates/Fences
Typo 1.2 (pod)                  1  13.46       3        11        1S
Type  , 6, 7                   2   0.68        0         1         1
Vehicle gate                    1  2.48        1         2         2
Perimeter fence              240   0.21        9        41        S0
Toil et
Varolous                        1  9.26        2         7         9
Landscaping
Planters/seating             120   0.05        2         4         6
Sub-total Buildings                                138       55S       893
Sub-total Infra A Bldgs                           18        708       876
Loes: self-help                               75       240       316
Total: Naotet                                 92       468       560
i'1



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
0.  Market Reconstructlont Bugolobt                                                  Page 3 of 3
It..            eQy   Unit  Local    Foreign        Total
Cost
I. Infrastructure
Site preparation                -       -      10         -         10
Earthwork.                      -       -       a        29         32
Storm drainage                  -       -      17        40         so
Footpaths                       -          -    8        81         34
Roadwork*                       -       -       2        19         21
Foul sewerage                   -       -       2        18         18
Water supply                    -       -       8        28         81
Electrical                      -       -       2        18         20
Sub-total Infrastructure                             48        180       223
II. Buildings
Stall sheds
Al                              2  25.38       10        41         51
e1                              2  18.29        7        29         37
As                              1  12.27        2        10         12
A4                              3  80.49       18        78         91
AS                              6  36.64       44       176        219
Off-loading
Type 2                          1  81.09        6        2S         31
Lock-up stalls
A                               8   8.24        C        21         26
0                               e   5.683      42       168        210
Amin offices
Type I                          1   7.48        1         8          7
Arcades
Type 2                         80   0.61       10        39         49
Gate/fences
Type 1.2                       22   0.61        a        1i         13
Type 8                          1  18.11        a        10         18
Vehicle gate                    1   2.48        1         2          2
f erioeter fence              130   0.21        5        22         2?
Toilets
Various                         1  16.14        3        18         1s
Landscaping
Planters/seating               44   0.05        1         2          2
Sub-total Buildings                                 162        647       808
Sub-total infra # Bldg*                             204        827     1,031
Less: self-help                                01       276        358
Total: Bugolobi                               124       552        676



UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Rebabilltatiom of ampala's Refuse Collection nd Disposa S ervie s.
A. aackaroud *nd Prolect For lation
1.    The estimated amount of solid waste generated In Kapala is presently
1,700 m3lday (760 tons/day), of which less than 20 Z is collected. Regular
refuse collection service is provided to less than 102 of the city's
population. Negligible amounts of waste are disposed of by comercial and
industrial establishments bringing their own refuse directly to the tipping
ground or contacting RCC's Cleansing Section for ad hoc removal.  Household
waste in Kampala typically contains 702-802 wet, organic material which
decomposes rapidly. Uncollected household waste is disposed of in gardens and
vacant lots where it is used as animal feed, burnt, composted, buried or
decomposed in the open.
2.    There is no iCC offfee responsible for overall development, planning 5nd
coordination of the various cleansing activities. The Cleansing Section under
the City Engineer's Dpertment is responsible for the removal of municipal
waste. Hovever, the Highway and Parks Sections, also under the City Engineer,
are responsible for street sweeping and park cleaning respectively, vhile the
Drainage and Sanitatio* Section under the Public Health Department remove*
debris and garbage from caftals, anti-malarial drains, and manholes. Septic
tank sludge emptying, mainly the responsibility of MISC, is also carried out
by ZCC.
S.   The collection system consists of open, communal containers in three
different sizes (4, S, and 15 m3) and vehicles specially equipped for their
uplifting and transpertation to dumping grounds. Open containers, frequently
unsanitary, unsightly and overflowing with refuse, invite scavenging by
people, animals, and insects.
4.    The landfill operation is critical.  BCC has three available disposal
sites but only the LugogoBypass is in operation. There is only one compactor
(bull dozer) in operation, and this limits the amounts of waste that can be
disposed. The major public health problem are associated vith the present
haphazard disposal of hospital waste directly on the landfills. The open
dumping at the Lugogo By-pee. site and the overflowing open containers are the
main environmental concerrt.
S.   The mechanical eqai#mft is on averag  6 years old and is still in
faLrly good condition, yet utilization is extremely low (302). This is
primarily owing to problems associated with lack of funds and spare parts, low
staff motivation with resultant few hours of actual operation, and cumbersome
procurement and operating procedures. In addition there are problems ith the
equipment design and constructions under-designed hydraulic arms, containers
not protected against corrosion, and welded seams too weak. All bulldozers
for levelling tipped refuse are over 20 years old and need replacement.



AMU 2
Page 2 of 5
6.    Cleansing services are paid for through budgetary allocations from the
City Treasury with revenue raised through general taxation. The Cleansing
Section's only direct income is from charges levied for ad hoc refuse
collection from commercial enterprises and the sale of slaughterhouse waste,
amounting to far less than one percent of the Section's operating budget.
7.    The most serious constraints to extended service coverage ares i)
equipment under-utilization due to lack of spare parts, repair and
maintenance; ii) low labor productivity; iii) non-functioning of disposal site
equipment; iv) inaccessibility of sites during the rainy season; v) lack of an
adequate revenue base caused by lack of cost recovery; and vi) cumbersome
procurement procedures.
S. Objectives
S.   The goal of the solid waste management program is to support the on-
going operation of RCC's Cleansing Section by expanding and improving refuse
collection and disposal services to reduce health risks; to reduce pollution;
and to assist generally in improving the eavironmental conditions in the city.
Nore specifically the program would seek to*
(a)   improve and expand storage and collection of solid waste by the
provision of additional containers and lift vehicles;
(b) improve routine maintenance levels of vehicles and equipmn^t by
rehaSilitating the DCC mechanical workshop located on Sixth
Stre it;
(c)   improve refuse disposal practices by providing necessary plant,
civil works and technical assistance to Introduce sanitary
landfill operations at the three existing municipal refuse tips.
C. Detailed Description
9.     MCC solid waste management operations vill be consolidated and
strengthened. The Cleansing Section will have offices for operations, planning
and development, revenues and accounting, and administration   An Improved
recording and data information system will be established for proper
management, performance monitoring, planning and day-to-day operation of the
services   The Cleansing Section would be given some level of autonomy over
its own operations, with a separate budgeting and accounting center, in
consultation with the City Treasurer. Training of SWM personnel at all
administrative levels would be provided as part of the service upgrading
efforts.
10. The principal mode of operation will be collection of waste from
comunal containers in municipal markets, institutLons, commercial and
iadustrial areas, from high incan residential areas, and other congested
areas where collection is required. Personnel costs are relatively low
compared to equipment costs, and for this reason collection vehicles and



AM=EX 2
Page 3 of S
landfill operations will be operated on two 6-hour shifts from 6 a.m to 6 p.m.
11. The city will continue to develop the current collection system, except
that the existing open 5 ma skips with appurtenant trucks will be phased out,
and replaced with 2 mS enclosed containers and lift trucks uth hoist-arms
which can haul 4 containers at once. Additional 4 m3 and 15 m3 skips and
vehicles will also be supplied. (See Appendix 1 for details). The 2 m3
containers will be less conspicuous than the present skips, and can be placed
at a more frequent spacing, allowing for more convenient use. In residential
areas the containers would be placed within acceptable walking distance from
the user, approximately 200m. The present collection frequency would be
maintaineds once or twice weekly collection in residential areas. Collection
service will be expanded gradually according to demand and willingness to pay.
Other areas with high population densities, and where there are not acceptable
possibilities for on-site disposal and composting, will also be provided with
regular service. A small number of rugged, new 2 m3 lift vehicles will be
introduced on a trial basis to serve high density residential areas with poor
vehicular access.
12.  Collection charges will first be introduced for services at markets,
industrial enterprises, institutions, businesses and high income residential
areas. Collection services in less congested medium and low income areas will
be introduced over timn, depending on costs and affordability of the service.
The local Resistance Councils will be mobilized to motivate and promote
Introduction of collection services in their respective areas. A tariff study
will be undertaken to determine an appropriate cost recovery strategy
(Annex 8). Service coverage is assumed to increase from less than 201 to-day
to 50-60S in 1994, based on total was'e generation. KCC will increase vehicle
utilization from 301 in 1990 to 802 by the end of 1992.
12. Upgrading of the municipal workshop and garage to acceptable standards
for routine maintenance is a prerequisite for improved service performance and
will be provided for in the Project (Appendix 3). Under a recent KCC policy
decision, aajor repairs and equipment overhauls will be given out to private
sector workshops. Routine service and supply of specified spare parts for a
5- year period would be included In the purchase agreements for new vehicles
and mechanical equipment. Equipment for monitoring the water pollution
downstream of the landfills and for landfill gas detection would be included
in the workshop equipment proposal.
13.   In order to maintain an adequate and satisfactory level of service the
cleansing operations must be closely supervised and monitored. The service
area would be divided into five collection zones, and inspectors/supervisor,
equipped with motorbikes, would be assigned to each zone. Each zone would
have an office for the inspector, a depot and function as a mustering point
for collection vehicle crews.
14.   The proposed collection system will depend on active participation of
the public. A public information campaign to sensitize the public to the new
refuse collection and service charge system, to increase the awareness of a
clean environment and the need for securing resources for this service will be



ANM 2
Page 4 of 5
undertaken. People would be encouraged to campost their own waste. in order
to reduce the waste quantities to be collected, and thereby reducing the total
service cost.
15.   Mulago Hospital's capacity to dispose of hazardous medical waste will
be increased by the installation of a new incinerator, thus reducing the risk
of the spread of infectious diseases, including AIDS. In the meantime
emergency arrangements will be made for the safe disposal of hospital waste in
designated areas of the landfills. The three municipal sites would be
prepared and upgraded to controlled landfill standards. Only one or two
landfills would be operated at the same time. Measures to locate and prepare
a new disposal site would be taken during the Project Implementation period.
D. Costs and PFia cfini
16. The summary estimated total base cost of the program is US$5.3 million
as shown below. This total excludes the cost of long-term technical
assistance to be provided as part of KCC's twinning arrangement described in
Ane: 7. The investment plan gives priority in the early years of the Project
to upgrading the disposal sites at Lugogo By-pass and Luzira, improvement of
the workshop, and technical assistance to KCC.
SolId laste R.ab l ltatioo Pmgr
Estimtd TotI Cot (U  000)
(My166 lmPricem)
item                     Local  Forelga  Total I Forelg
Comt"au                     821  1,6"   2,147      on
VehIcles                     4   1,20   1,2m       7X
Laadi II .qulpment           76    488     we      on
LadfIll preparation        461     60    60      1a
Nopital Inclomeatr          5      58    10W      so
Workshop qappms.t sad rehab  4*     11     so      so5
TeAlael agista..            se      40    144    7S
TOTAL                     1,=8$  8,408   5,2n6     703
$     _-o                  _       _      _
Sovro.: CoISutt esimt



hgRU 2
pag 5 of 5
B. luaplmatatiom
17. Implementation of the solid waste program vould be the responsibility of
the Cleansing Section under the City Engineer. The technical assistance to be
provided would include resources for the following tasks: i) a tariff
structure study, including willingness to pay survey: ii) preparation for a
public awareness campaign; iii) preparation of tender documents for upgrading
the landfill sites; iv) preparation of tender docuaunts for supply of
collection vehicles, containers and landfill equipmentt and v) training and
technical assistance to RCC during first year of project implementation.
18.   Bid documents for procurement of vehicles and equipment will be prepared
by the time of credit negotiations. Similarly, detailed designs and tender
documents for civil works for i) the upgrading of the three refuse dumps to
sanitary land fill standards and ii) the rehabilitation of the mechanical
workshop will be finalized by credit negotiations. Funds have been provided
in PPF P487-2-UG for these tasks. Funds are also available under the PPF for
the emergency repair of the one remaining bulldozer required to level refuse
at the Lugogo By-pass refuse dump. The list of tools and equipment for the
workshop will be submitted to ITn for review before bids under ICB are called.
19.   Two main vehicle and equipment contracts, one for collection vehicles
and the other for landfill equipment, would be procured through ICB. These
would total approximately US$1.8 million and US$0.5 million respectively.
Civil and building works would involve four contracts, each one not exceeding
US$0.2 million. It is not likely that international tendering would attract
foreign contractors and hence these works would be procured through LCB.
Containers (US$2.2 million) are fabricated locally and would be procured under
LCB over a five-year period provided that quality, quantity and cost are shown
to be comparable with estimates from international vehicle and equipment
manufacturers/ suppliers.
20. KCC has agreed to achieving an increase in the volume of refuse
delivered to refuse sites from 7,000 m3 per month to 16,000 m3 by the end of
1993.



AN 2
Appendix 1
Page I of 1
Solid Waste Rehabilitatlon Progra
Capital Ceots of Collection Equipmnt
(Nay 100 priem)
Item                 Unit       Numbr of unite per yer                  Total    Total
Cot                                                Units    Coot
uss    loft    19i2    iw        1014   low               Usa 0oo0'
Container.
2.8                1,8'0      20       40      80       s0       48       248     828
4.8                1,560       0       S0      280     2tO      298       028   1,717
is"8               8,000       0       12      12       10        0       84      102
Sub-total container.             20      102     182      8S0      841    1,206   2,147
Vehicles
Ix2 wi            24,000       2        0       0        0        0        2       48
4 as              89,000       0        0        8       8       13        84   1,826
4x2 8             60,000       0        0        2       1        2         £     250
1S u8             60,000       0        2        1       0        0        8      10
motorbikes           600      10        0       0        0        0        10       8
Sub-total vehicle               12        2       11       9       20       54   1,8112
Landf IeI ptpoment
Bull dozer (D5)   78,000       1        0        1       0        1         8     219
Wheel lader       50,000       0        1        0       0        0         1      SO
Back NoH          40,000       0        1        0       1        0         2      80
Tipper Truck      50,000       0        1        0       1        1         S     10
Leachato p_o       $,n8o       0        1       0        1        1         8      10
Sub-totaI  Landtil pipumst      1        4        1       S                 12     609
TOTAL              U8                    106     804      872    S8        1,271   4,469



ANEX 2
Appoodlx 2
Peg 1 Of 1
Solid Waste Rebhbl ttateon Program
Investment Plan (USI 000)
(May 16  price)
Item                          1991   lo2    1900       1994    100l      Cost
Containers                        2      1i8      t81      048      000    2,147
Vehiclo                           0a     120      472          802 $00     1,012
Land&il equipmt                   78     148       7        98      120      S0
Landfill preparation             105     190       so      120        0      S01
Hospital lncinerator              68      a8        0        0        0      10l
Workshop  utipment and reMbe      so       0        0        0        0       so
Technical assstadnce              84      s0        0        0        0      144
TOTAL                            40?     748   1,812   1,228   1,e    5,288
====-====--
Sourcs: Consultant estimat
o excluding long-tern TA provided udr linking erengeea t (Anrme 7)



Appeadi S 
Page I of 1
SolidWaste Rlhlablition Prorm
Civil n NWSolding Works
(May 10 prices)
Land   I Sit"
Oescriptioo                       Estimated Cot (USS)
1.  Fencing                          7,150  11,70  t,000
S.  Site clro                       *8,000 149,000  2,000
S.  Aoes road                        1,000   6,000   6,*00
4.  Surfae, rwoftf ditb              6,130  15,70  21,009
S.  DraIna  pipsork                  0,260  24,750  *8,000
S.  Leachat. drain                   7,000  21,000  21,000
T.  Site ccomodtion                    70   2,260   8,000
S.  Site roade                      11,600  84,500  46,000
TOTAL                              126,000  75,000 600,000
Rehabilitation of Slabt Street Moanical Worksho
eowriptlom                        Estiated Cost QUSS)
Loal  For.lgn  Total
1.  ngsin, roo                       1,60   5,5s0   7,400
_.  Svice ramp                         70   2,260   8,000
8.  1uel Suore Block                   6     1,60   2,200
4.  Mehanleal Store                 1,026   8,076   4,100
S.  Blacke    Shop A7V   2,615   8,600
6.  Store and Offic S,lock           1,615   4,76   6,600
7.  Washing an Spraying Soys         1,800   $,000    ,1200
6.  Parking Sp21,160   ,60   9,000
9.  Sform war dralao                 1,5   5,616   7,600
TOTAL                               12,200  86,00  46,600



Pag 1 of 4
UGAUDA
FIRST URBN PROJCT
Roads and Drains and Maintenance Progr
A. Background and Proiect Formulation
1.        The road network under the jurisdiction of Kampala City Council
is comprised of 270 km of bitumen and 178 km of gravel roads. Certain
sections of trunk roads passing through the city are the responsibility of
the Ministry of Works. A number of minor tracks and local access roads in
the outlying areas have not been taken over by KCC and are maintained, if
at all, by local residents.   Most of the streets in the central business
district are, or were, of high bitumen standard with sidewalks and covered
drains. In the outlying areas, only the major arterial roads are of
bitumen standard but they lack sidewalks. The remainder of the roads,
including most roads in Kawempe, Rubaga and Makindye divisions, are of
gravel (murram) or unimproved standard.
2.        During the period 1970-1983 no new construction and very little
maintenance was carried out. Faced with diminishing material and financial
resources, Kampala city roads (and drains) were allowed to deteriorate to
the extent that many had either fallen out of use or were irreparably
damaged. Vehicle operating costs rose dramatically and traffic
circulation became chaotic and inefficient   The public transport fleet was
depleted and expensive in relation to incomes, particularly those of
workers living in outlying, cheaper areas. Recent (1989) household
interviews indicate that more than half of the labor force still walks to
and from work, many to save their transport allowance, others saving on the
public transport costs, which average U Sh 10,000 per month.
3.        The City Engineer's Department of DCC, faced with a total lack
of equipment, manpower and financial resources, was powerless to mitigate
the deterioration, let alone improve the road network. What was left of
the equipment and tools in the depots and central workshop was looted in
1979 and subsequent budgetary allocations were insignificant in real terms.
The road maintenance and drainage cleaning activities, once fairly well
organised and managed, essentially ceased.
4.        It was against this backdrop that during the period 1984-1986
EEC financed Phase I of an emergency rehabilitation project consisting of
about 30 km of major roads * A further 11 km were financed by the Uganda
Government. In many instances only the road base and surface were
reconstructed, while drainage systems and pedestrian sidewalks were largely
untouched. Despite these technical short-comings, the investments improved
the city-center traffic situation dramatically.
5.        Starting in 1992, EEC plans the reconstruction of a further 30-
35 km of roads In Kampala in a Phase II to be financed from Lome IV. loads
have been selected on the basis of their importance as major arteries, in
serving Industrial areas, as by-passes to heavily-trafficked roads and as
important links from one area of the city to another.



AU     X
haze 2 of 4
6.        Heanwhile in 1988. in recognition of the need for additional
road improvement, both to maintain snd upgrade past investments and to stop
the further deterioration of the newly rehabilitated road and drainage
system, EEC embarked on a four-year Routine Road Maintenance (RIM) and
Extraordinary Road Maintenance (ERM) program of assistance to KCC's City
Engineer's Department. RIK refers to spot repairs while ERM includes
periodic resealingiresurfacing of bitumen roads, regravelling murram or
earthigravel roads and major cleaning of the drainage system. The program
was originally designed to assist ICC to take on progressively greater
routine maintenance responsibilities, while contracting out the more
demanding periodic maintenance.  The EJMIRIM program is also providing
training to ICC staff In road maintenance techniques as well as train local
contractors In road maintenanc. practices and rehabilitate some of the
depots vandalized in the 1970s. Xoolo depot, one of six In RCC's
decentralized system of municipal maintenance, has been partly
rehabilitated and serves a bitumen patching and resealing gang.
7.        DCC has, on its own initiative, since 1989 made some efforts to
strengthen the City Engineer's Department through the recruitment of
several professional staff. It has also undertaken to reopen roads that
had been rendered impassable, mostly through simple grading operations.
S. Program Objectives
S.        The IDA-financed program would provide support to the HLghways
and Drainage Division in the City Engineer's Department of ICC in order to
safeguard past investment In road and drainage infrastructure. The program
would be a 3-year continuation of the EEC-financed ERMIRUM program which is
expected to be complete at the end of 1990191. The program will preclude
the need for expensive reconstruction in the future.   It will also carry
out traffic management improvement measures to improve traffic flows and
safety.
9.        More specifically the program would seek to:
(a) finance the periodic maintenance of roads, drains and
sidewalks through the employment of contractors; and
(b) provide support (equipment, tools, performance allowances
and road maintenance materials) in order to increase the
Division's capacity for routine road maintenance by force
account;
(c) finance the rehabilitation of four of the six ICC depots
serving the maintenance districts;
(d) provide operational assistance to establish a sustainable
pavement management system and to improve the general
management and operations of the Division.



mu 
P      . S of 4
C. Detailed Descriptiom of Part   m
10.         The program would address the moot critical maintenace need
of Kampala's road and drainage network and progressively expand the
Higbways Lid Drainage division's capacity to maintain the system. IDA
flnance would support a 3-year rolling program begi8ning in 1991192, after
the completion of UC-financed program which began In 1988189. The ezact
composition of the program will depend on progress achieved during NEC's
period of assistance. It is anticipated that the level of funding to be
provided will be adequate to provide routine maintenance to about 120 km of
bitumen road and 60 km of gravel roads annually. In addition it will
support the a program of periodic maintenance to 30 km of bitumen road and
20 km of gravel road during the three year period. Details of the program,
which also includes supporting equipment, tools, materials, and
rehabilitation of depots, are shown in the attached appendices 1 and 2.
D.  Proara  Costs and  fiUsUcJJ
11.       The total base cost of the muicipal roads maintennce  program
is estimated at US$5.90 million, of which the foreign exchange component is
expected to be 76Z. These figures exclude technical assistance and
training for maintensace operations and management, included under the
general assistance and training package to be provided to KCC.
VMCIAL MM UADWOSC _SN
am   cuosmu&i
No 1M0 bem  cots (exs cuding ceetl-go else)
w.    t            X     W~~~~~unts   ILA"    FOi  T1U
110.                    ~ ~~~~~~Col    I   Om
S*sbIItt1Is0 f sbl.teOms    SSPets (4)     72     8o
SubtIu re1d_i  t... (b IOCC)
Peeeersm.eAl eas,e.                    76       0    76
mteis                                   a     Us   2
Feet, Splmt, Tol                        7    an    46
Pwdlte reed mlemeaee
TOTAL "a COSms                          I,m    4,8   1.00



page n of 4
B. I aleaeutati.n
12.       The KCC's City Engineer's Department would be the key
implementing agency through its Highways and Drainage Division. The
technical coordinating comuittee chaired by the Deputy Town Clerk would be
responsible for overall coordination and monitoring of the program.
13.       Before the beginning of each fiscal year, the annual maintenance
program proposed and agreed by KCC will be submitted to the Bank for
review.   The program would indicate the works to be contracted,
identifying each road length by name, the Imported materials content of the
annual program, and the economic rate of return for the annual package of
works. Selection criteria for roads would be the same as those for the EEC
financed program (Para. 5).   Tender documents for civil vorks, vehicles,
plant, and equipment will be prepared by MCC with the assistance of PCU
and will be submitted to the Association for review prior to the beginning
of each financial year begimning October 1, 1991.
14        The proposed program would benefit from the experience gained
during the implementation of the EEC-financed ERM and RIK program. Despite
early objectives to involve smaller local contractors in routine and
periodic maintenance works through training, provision of equipment and
materials, their performance under the EEC program has been found to be
less than satisfactory and expenslve. Contracts for resealing (including
reconstituting base course) have been found to be cheaper and of better
quality when done by larger contractors. It is therefore proposed that all
periodic maintenance would be carried out by contractor procured under ICB.
Local contractors will either work as sub-contractors to larger civil works
contractors, or would focus on drainage and sidewalk rehabilitation.
15.       It is proposed to concentrate XCC force account activities on
routine maintenance suck, as sweeping, drain and pipe cleaning, marking,
minor patching, pothole repairing. grass cutting. Kampala has been divided
into six road maintenance districts, each one of which will be the
responsibility of a District Maintenance Engineer. Each district will have
a complement of workers organized into units capable of undertaking routine
road and drain cleaning, and patching. A total of 35 skilled and 100
unskilled workers will be required, furnished with suitable depot
facilities and equipment. Provision has been made for incentive allowances
to both supervisors and labor. based on performance output. Provision has
also been made for the trainfing of engineers and tecbnicians within the
program, through short courses, on-the-job training and attachments (Amex
7).
16.       Vehicles, equipment and tools amounting to US$0.4 million will
be procured through ICB procedures. The rehabilitation of the four KCC
depots (US$0 .2 million) would be carried out by contractor procured under
LCB. Road maintenance work carried out by contractors (US$5.0 million)
would be procured through international competitive bidding for standard
items at agreed rates at the beginning of each of three years of the
program.



ANN   8
Appendix 1
Paeg 1 of 8
MUCIPAL ROADS MAINTENANCE PRORM
DETAIL COST ESTIMATES
May 1990 ba   osts (excluding contingencies)
A.  REHABILITATION Of MAINTENCE ODEPOTS
Rd.              Ite.            qty    Unit       ILocel    Foreign   Total
No.                                      CO"       I      US '000)
1.  Nakivubo Depot                  -         -       I        18  82      0
2.  MngoO Dpot                      -        -     I    18        82      60
8.  DugolobI Depot                  -        -     I    16        82      s0
4.   f aempeD.pot                   -        -     I    18        82      so
Sub-Total Roh*bl I itation of Dpot.                1    72       128     200
9. ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: KCC DIRECT LAOR
Perfomanco  Allowanae
Re .             Item            Qty    Unit       ILocal    Foreign   Total
No.                                      Cost      I    (USS '000)
Performance All wanes:                        I
1.  mUnaorent/Sup.rviston                          I    16    -           15
2.  General workors                                I    8O      -         60
Sub-Totsl P eformaneo Al lownceu                   I    75         0      75
C. RUTINE MAINTENANCE: KCC DIRECT LABOR
Road Meintnance Materials
Rtf.             Ite                 Qty    Unit  I Local  Foreign   Total
No.                                           Coot I    (USS 'IWO)
1.  Situ."                                         I             s 6O    sO
2.  Cemet                                          1      2       14      1B
8    Aggrepetee .runh.rrun                         1    20        65      75
4.  Road marking point                             I      -       12      12
S.   Moullaneoue (kerbs, pipes,
mo.h covers, etc)                           I      6       12      16
S.  Sign., seurity light, et.                      I      7       85      42
I-
Sub-Total KCC Direct Labor-" t rluls               I    SIC    too    223



ANNEX a
Appeedia 1
Pop. 2 ot 8
0. ROUtINE MADNTENANCE: KCC DIRECT LAW R
Plant, equlpment and tools
RNt.             item qxy    Unit  I Local Foreig    ""K.
No.                                           Cost I    (US  '000)
4eOndtol                                           I
1.  Shovels                          100    0.015 I   0.2       1.8       t
2.   Picks, hoes                      s0    0.015 I   0.6       0.t        1
8.  Broom (a soe.)          J10    0.010 I   8.0                  -
4.  Pang,                             75    0.000 I   0.5       0.t        1
5.  Whelbarros                        45    0.100 I      -       5.0      6
6.   Protective clothes              100    0.090 I   8.0        6.0       9
Drain gleaning equlpment
7.  Cloening spirals                   2     1.800 I     -      4.0       4
8.   Winch *to                         2    J0.000 1      -    60.0      s0
9.  Wheeled loader 0.5M3               1   40.000 1      -    40.0       40
Plant (transport)
t0. Plek-ups                          2    20.000 1      -    40.0       40
11. Tracteor A trel lore               2   46.000 1      -      90.0     s0
12. Motocycl.                         9    2.400 1       -      7.0        7
18.   cycles                          12    0.200 1      -       2.0      2
Plant (patching)
14.  TaMper/r_mor                     2    19.000 I      -      U.0      J6
1s. Compaction plate                   8    4.200 1      -      18.0     15
16. Smell roller                       2   22.000 1      -     44.0      44
17.  Bit hend sprayer                  2     4.000 1      -      0.0      8
1B. Cofncreat *xer                    a      6.000 I     -      15.0     1s
19.  AssotW dpre, parts                      -           -      25.0      23
Sub-Totsl: Tools, Equipment, Plant                 I      7      898    402
E. PERIODIC ROA MAINtENANCE BY CONTRACTORS
Ref.             Item            qty    Unit       ILocel  Foreign Total
llo.                                     coot      I     (US5 0o0o)
1.   Contract works (US31.6 million par user)      I
(Includes: resa_ling, repeir.; r hab of       1  1850     3650    5000
sidwalks, drains)                             I  -
I  1850    860t   5000
Note: Annual unit costs of reed  alatenene per kil ester asumed
as fol low:
Routine      Gravel       US1,000
Bitumen      US l,B00
Periodic    Gravel        USS30,000
Bitumen      US1380,000
Source: Basd on K(mple City Roads: Maintnance Activities
and Cost Estimates (In9 - 1908), October 199.



Pq.$3 of 3
ICIN AL RODS RES4m      ATIN An  mAnTSoCE PROMRAM
MADInINA    PERFOMANCE TAROM
Control Dletrioa          Outer Sot.1.t
Naklvubo Kololo Bug.l.bl Wan   K _mewp. Ubslndye  Total
Blt...  Roadl (km)      5.2   42.5        8.2    70         sO       85   270
of whicb:
- "lnt. Ia 19"            1i      10         *    12         5       S      a
( It n 198)          OM    (2m         (2m 1) (1       (17X     (IN  (2
-  1l    In t1992         sO      20        15    U         12       1S   117
(I a. 19l2)          ()   (47)         (81   (81       (401)   (481)  (481)
- a         In. InS       o0    40                  0           22  25   222
( I a1996)           (O2M   (94)       (93)  (7s)   (78        (71)  (
Gravel Roads (kim)
0      0      12.7    45        70       60   17t
of which:
-"int.tn191               -       -     (8)        0        0       0      u
( In los)                _       _- _-                             -   (a1)
-minat.tn1962              -       -        10    1a SC             15
(v n11 2                 -       -     (7    (81       (        (81) (8
-"X*at.199C                -       -      12.7    82        s0       #    180
(1 I 199)               -       -    (10t5  (7)    (1x)    ()  (781
Grovel + Bit""          54.2   42.5       50.9   115       100      85   448



AM= 4
page 1 of S
1 m-,M for StfUrban nvestment Planin  Canac
Arn.4
1.   Uganda's capacity to undertake urban planning activities is at a wery
low ebb. The Physical Planning Department (PPD), now under WOHUD, suffered
years of neglect and outright destruction In the 1970's. Town planning at the
local level was established only in Kampala as a section within the City
Engineer's Department (1968). This lack of capacity has come at a time when
post-war urban population growth is begianing to Increase, creating a growing
need to plan for the appropriate expansion of urban services   The back-log of
planning work required to regularize the informal urban growth vhich occurred
over the past 15 years is staggering. There is an urgent need to rehabilitate
urban services not only back up to their pre-war levels but increase them
beyond to meet current and future needs. Fundamental to the achievement of
this goal is the need to strengthen the country's urban planning capacity at
national and local level.
2.   One of the ways in which the Project will achieve this goal will be
strengthening PPD and the Town Planning section within KCC. A related and
complementary part of the proposed strategy would include a study of the
institutional and legal aspects of physical planning as contained in the Town
and Country Planning Act (1964).
D. Oblectives
9.   The goal of the program would be to create a capacity to plan and
evaluate dynamic urban investment proposals as opposed to the preparation of
traditional static master plans. The project aims to achieve this goal by
financing a task force to undertake a two-year exercise of urban investment
planning with on-the-job training for planners, economists, engineers and
financial analysts assisted by foreign and local expertise. The objectives of
the program would be tot
(a) train 12 Ugandan planners with different professional backgrounds
and an equal number of planning assistants in modern techniques of
urban investment planning;
(b)   prepare outline structure plans and written statements covering
the development of Kampala and at least one other local authority
from 1990 - 2000;
(c)  prepare affordable investment programs, including relevant detail
area development plans, preliminary engineering designs and cost
estlimtes, for priority service sectors, for the period 1993 -
1998;
(d)   organixe a plamning and programming unit within DCC.



ANRMX 4
Page 2 of 5
C. Detailed Description
4.    The program will finance a two-year effort to train a core team of
planners selected from PPD and KCC. The task force would produce up-dated
outline structure plans for Kampala and at least one other urban council
together with detailed action programs justifying capital investments on
technical, institutional, financial and socio-economic grounds. The work
would be undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team working under the direction
of PPD's Chief Physical Planner in MOHUD. The team would be assisted by a
lead planning advisor with a background in economics and urban financial
analysis and extensive experience in carrying out strategic investment-
oriented urban studies. The team would be supported by a wide range of short
and long-term specialist expertise obtained both locally and abroad. Ugandan
trainees would be recruited from both PPD and the involved local authorities.
Detail terms of reference for the Kampala study are contained in Appendix 1 to
this Annex. The program will also include a similar but appropriately scaled-
down study for at least one other urban center, possibly Jinja.   The initial
phases of the work will be facilitated by a training program for physical
planners financed by GTZ.
5.    In view of the importance of transport and traffic management for the
efficient functioning of Kampala, the program will include a transportation
and traffic management component for the city and its environs. It will form
an integral part of the outline structure plan exercise and recommend
praSmatic priority traffic management measures aimed at maximizing utilization
of existing networks. It will also propose demand-driven investments to
ensure incremental improvements based on need and affordability.
6.    Project packages consisting of the proposed five year capital program
for the period 1993 - 1998 for each local authority will be prepared, complete
with financial plan. They will be prepared in such a manner that they can be
submitted to an international bank or financing agency for appraisal and
review.
7.    A serious constraint for effective planning and all aspects of land
management in Kampala has been the paucity of up-to-date and reliable maps at
appropriate scales. Aerial photography, fina-.ced under PPF P487-UG was flown
on February 9, 1990. Ground control (placing of co-ordinated survey points)
and the preparation of photomosaics at 1s5,000 for urban data collection are
proposed for financing under another IDA credit (T.A. I1I, Credit ---) early
in 1990. The Project provides financing for the production of up-to-date line
maps with contours of the Kampala area based on this aerial photography at
scales of 1:2500, llO,000 and 1s25,000. Mapping would be carried out in
liaison with the Ministry of Lands and Surveys.



AMNE 4
Page 3 of S
D. Costs and Fimancing
8.    The estimated total cost of the urban planning exercise, including the
mapping and planning legislation study, is US$2.66 million.              The total cost
of producing up-to-date topographical maps is US$1.3 million, of which US$1.)
million is sllocable to the Project with the balance of US$0.3 million being
financed by TA III. The estimated total cost of the planning exercise,
detailed in tC_.e table below, is US$1.26 million, including US$0.6 million for
training being financed by GTZ.
Cot Esti"mt
(US8'OO3)
Local     Foreign     Total
MAPPING
Aerial photos                           0          45         45
Ground control (by TA III)             N/A        N/A        N/A
Mapping                                 0       1,000      1,000
TOTAL MAPPING                             0       1,045      1,045
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
TA
Load advisor                          23        203        225
ST planning (foreign)                 30        270        300
ST planning (local)                   48          0         48
Training a i sor (GTZ)                36        324        390
ST traininy (OTZ)                     25        22C        260
Local partlcipant *llowancer           0         29         29
Vehicles and Equipment
vehiclos                               0         s0         s0
drawing offic equlpment                0         20         20
PC and acessories                      0         10         10
training aids                          0         10         10
Office returbishment
paint, glass lighting, etc.                       7         10
Operating xpenses                       4          10         20
printing, stationery, *tc.
Planning legislation study
Study                                   10         90        100
TOTAL URBAN PLANNING                     179      1,283      1,4U2



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
B. Implemeutation
9.    The on-the-job training component of the program would be financed by
GTZ and be implemented under the direction of the Chief Physical Planner, PPD,
MOHUD. Ugandan trainees, selected on the basis of prior academic
qualifications and merit from PPD and KCC, would receive their regular salary
from their parent institution plus a consultant fee of the equivalent of
US$100 per month in local currency for specific tasks successfully undertaken
as part of the program.
10. GTZ has committed funds equivalent to DM 1.1 million towards the cost of
providing 24 person months of a training advisor, 10 person months of short-
term specialist expertise, drawing office equipment, office refurbishment,
and operating costs. The training would begin in May 1990 and would extend
throughout the two-year period of the program. During the first 10 months of
the program, the training effort would focus on data collection and analysis
and preliminary structure planning exercises for Kampala (Tasks IV.1 through
IV.13 and V.1 and V.2 in the TORs given in Appendix 1). In addition to the
training of participants in general physical planning, GTZ-financed specialist
training in transportation, urban and infrastructure planning including the
use of relevant computer methods will be carried out with the assistance of
short-term expertise. Training of.planning assistants will also be
undertaken.
11.   Early in 1991, zhe team of physical planners concerned with Kampala
would be supplemented by additional planning expertise financed under the IDA
credit. The expertise would including a lead urban economist/financial
analyst and other specialists to form a task force working with PPD and KCC
officials under the direction of the Town Clerk.   A review of work undertaken
to date will be done and the need for additional data collection and analysis
will be identified, especially in the non-physical planning areas. After
acquisition and analysis of the additional data, the task force will prepare
alternative structure plan options. The options will be reviewed by a
steering committee composed of relevant government and non-government bodies,
and the preferred alternative will be selected. The task force will document
the preferred structure plan in final form and identify priority action
programs. The preparation of affordable investment programs, including
preliminary engineering design and cost estimates, for priority service
sectors, for the period 1993 - 1998 would be done. GTZ assistance will
support the preparation of detailed area physical development plans associated
with the investment programs in furtherance of the training objective. The
investment programs would be in accordance with the socio-economic realities
facing the urban centers. A small capital budgeting unit would be established
under the Town Clerk in RCC to begin the process of integrating the proposed
investment programs into the city's overall development program and to
establish an implementation and monitoring capability. A similar strategic
urban planning effort for the municipality of Jinja will also be undertaken.
12.   The planning expertise required to complement the skills and knowledge



AMNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
of the Ugandan core team will be supplied by consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
IDA. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants By World Bank Borrowers' of August 1981.



ANNEM 4
Appeudi? 1
Page 1 of 14
Terms of Reference
Prevaration of an urban Development Plan and Action Prorms
for the
Citq of Kamwala
I. B&CKGROUND
An urban planning and management system for Kampala needs to be
developed with emphasis on:
(i) coping with growth;
(ii)  improving the level of productivity of all inhabitants by
* the provision of services, and fostering the private sector,
particularly the informal private sector;
(iii)   improving operation and maintenance practices; and
(iv)  developing fiscal and human re  irces at the local level.
The Government of Uganda seeks consultancy services in addressing these
issues and problems.
n.   OBJECTIVES
The objectives of this assignment are to s
(a)   prepare a structure plan and written statement covering the
development of Kampala 1990 - 2000;
(b)   prepare affordable action programs, including preliminary
engineering design and cost estimates, for all service sectors,
for the period 1993 - 1998;
(c)   prepare forecast capital and revenue financial statements for all
agencies involved in the action programs, the financial statements
to include forecast balance sheets and proposed financing plans
indicating sources and applications of funds; and
(d)   recomnedations for financial and institutional reform including
the establishment of a planning, programming and budgeting system
for the city of Kampala.
In meeting these objectives particular attention would be given tos (i)
creating a "climate of opportunity' in which new comers can be speedily
absorbed into the urban system; (ii) government interventions and actions



ANREM 4
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 14
which can promote productivity in the private sector, particularly the
informal private sector; and (iii) operation and maintenance procedures and
practices.
III.   APPROACE TO THE TASK
The planning team(s) engaged in this work should realize that they are
involved in a very dynamic situation. It should also be realized that, at
best, the quality of the data will be crude. This suggests that the existing
situation should be assessed as speedily as possible. A team of experienced
professionals should get a quick 'feel' for the workings of the city and, to
the extent possible, understand the private sector and, in particular, the
informal sector.
After a review of the existing situation (including a review of the
fiscal resources), the tasks call for quick sieve, deficiency and threshold
analyses, followed by demographic and economic projections. The structure
plan scenarios will be quickly developed from alternative development patterns
and transportation networks; the preferred alternative will then be
reconmmended to the government.
Action plans together with institutional and financial reforms will be
prepared which fit into the framework of the structure plan and are in
accordance with the socio-economic realities facing the city. The process of
improving urban management will then be charted.
Finally a project package consisting of the proposed five year capital
program for the period 1993 - 1998 will be prepared (complete with financial
plan). It will be prepared in such a manner that it can be submitted to an
international bank or financing agency for appraisal and review.
The work will be carried out in three phases*
Phase One: Data Collection and Analysis
Identify and review existing conditions;
Review on-going programs and committed development;
Planning analyses.
Phase Two: Structure Planian
Preparation of structure plan and written statement;
Identification of actions programs statement.
Organization of a planning and programming unit within KCC



ARM  4
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 14
Phase Threes Action Planning
Design of action programs, preliminary engineering and actions to be
taken to implement in the five year 1993 - 1998 program.
In undertaking the work the planning team will be expected to show
judgment in interpreting the 'spirit' implied in the tasks and scope of work,
rather than the 'letter' of the written words.
IV. PHASE ONEs DATA COLLECTION AID ANALYSIS
1. Identify Existing Conditions
Identify existing urban conditions in the Kampala area. More
specifically, map, review and comment upon the following:
Land Use: Classify and note the areas of land under various forms of urban
and agricultural.  Identify land in public and private sector ownership,
including mailo land. To the extent possible ascertain land values (legal and
illegal) over a cross section of the city area. Locate on the maps all
schools and sites of learning, note the number of students by age and academic
category. Carry out a similar exercise in respect of clinics and hospitals,
noting in this case the number of hospital beds and the capacity and type of
facility. Identify and locate any modes of activity including bus stations or
terminals, markets, primary and secondary shopping centers.
Obtain information on the urban infrastructure systems and illustrate the
findings on maps. Including the followings
Water Supplys Areas served by: surface and ground water sources; couunity
stand posts or water kiosks; shallow wells; house connections or any other
means of supply. Ascertain the levels of service available to consumers i.e.
quantity of water available by area, in liters per capita; hours of supply and
reliability of the service; pressures (where applicable) at the top; any other
relevant information.
Sewerage and Sanitation: Areas served by a water-borne sewerage system;
septic tanks, pit latrines and any other disposal system. Note location,
condition and capacity of any sewage treatment works and 'end-use' of
effluent.
Transportation: Identify the 270 kilometers of bitumenroads and approximate
120 kilometers of gravel roads in the city; locate the roads (all weather and
unsurfaced) used as bus andlor taxi routes. Identify industrial and
commercial areas where access roads are urgently required. Note and record
the types of street and security lighting in the city; ascertain the numbers
of poles and light sources by mounting heights, lanterns and bulb types.
Identify the extent and levels of service throughout the Kampala area.



ANNEX 4
Appeud~z 1
Page 4 of 14
Drainage: The normal top water levels of Lake Victoria.        Note the
buildings and premises and other matters which may be at risk from flooding
(if any). Identify the drainage basins and watersheds together with areas
served by natural and artificially constructed culverts and drains.
Solid Wastes: Identify the location of tips and dumping grounds, where
collection crews are assembled and vehicles garaged; and identify and map
areas by level of service. Identify areas of little or no service. Assess the
surplus capacity of tipping or dumping grounds.
2. Review On-Goin2   Program  and Committed Develooment
Review, map and comment upon on-going programs (both physical and
support) being carried out in the Kampala area bys
(a)   the private sector;
(b)   government - national, local and para-statal agencies;
(c)   non government organizations; and
(d)   any other agency.
Identify those programs supported by multilateral, bilateral and other
international aid agencies. Differentiate between hard and soft commitment.
Hard commitment refers to ongoing programs or where funding is secure and/or
contracts exist and soft commitment refers to programs under active
consideration, but where funding has not yet been secured.
3. Sieve Analysis
Review the records of the top water levels of Lake Victoria and identify
areas at risk of flooding from 5, 10 and 15 years storms, andlor flood levels.
On maps of a suitable scale, identify:   -
(a)   areas suitable for agriculture, market gardens, and other types of
farming;
(b)   areas needed for security and other related purposes;
(c)   areas affected by noise levels;
(d)   areas of opportunity for a particular type of development or
environmental enhancement;
(e)   areas affected by pollution;
(f)   areas which, for one reason or another, are unsuitable to
buildings;
(g)   areas where the 'water table' is high or close to the surface; and
(h) any other relevant aspect affecting the physical/environmental
aspect of urban development.



AMUU 4
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 14
4. Threshold nal8sis
On maps of a suitable scale, identify areas which should not be
recommended for development without crossing an infrastructural threshold
(e.g. water supply intake, airport relocation, etc.).
5. Deficiency Analysis
Assess each of the 5 districts of Kampala (Kawempe, Nakawa, Makindye,
Rubaga and Central) for infrastructural or special service deficiencies.
Carry out the work in such a way that approximate cost estimates can be
subsequently prepared for upgrading. Inter alia, the study should include:
water supply, sewerage and sanitation, access to bus routes, street/security
lighting, electricity, solid waste removal, access to employment opportunity,
telecommunications and access to education, health and social facilities.
6. Urban DeveloAment Models
From an analysis of the types of shelter development in representative
types of residential neighborhoods, sketch physical development models for
typical units of land area and/or number of population. Estimate the costs
per unit area and per capita of various levels of infrastructural and social
services.
Comment on the density, efficiency and suitability of the residential
layouts and the capacity to respond to the needs of the community in the
future. Discuss the capacity of the beneficiaries to afford various levels of
infrastructural and social service provision.
Prepare, sketch and ascertain costs for a number of urban development
models which are considered to be appropriate to the need of the community and
in liae with socio-economic realities. Include development models for:
(a)   all types of new development;
(b)   replanning and upgrading of unplanned development;
(c)   infilling (if considered possible) in planned areas;
(d)   incorporation of rural (usually river side) villages with new
development ; and
(e)   any other relevant form of development.
7. Traffic and transportation
From a review of licenses and other statistics, note the historical
growth in the number of vehicles In Kampala by type.
Obtain and review any road accident statistics which have been recorded
during the last five years.



ANMEX 4
Appeadix 1
Page 6 of 14
Identify a hierarchy of streets and classify them as primary,
distributor and service streets. Make a crude assessment of the existing
value of the assets.
Carry out an overview assessment of the programs, depots, equipment and
facilities available for highway, foo'way and street lighting maintenance.
Review existing maintenance practices. Comment on the productivity of the
staff and equipment. Comment on a role or otherwise for the private sector.
Identify the roads and terminals used by public and private transit
operations. Write a brief report on the transit services available in the
city (including taxis). Assees the number of passengers carried. Discuss
fares, purchasing and maintenance of vehicles and other relevant matters.
Review any recent traffic surveys and counts which have been undertaken
recently. Organize and undertake an appropri.ate origin and destination survey
together with spot checks and screen line counts. The survey should not be an
elaborate affair. It should be undertaken at a level which will give a
reasonable indication of traffic and parking ststus and enable peak hour
circulation flows to be established. Carry out a vehicle parking survey in
the core area of the city. Comment on the need or otherwise for improved
parking control and off-street vehicle parks.
Identify any missing links or unmade streets which if make up would
complement the road network. Prepare basic circulation plans for the core
areas of the tree main townships.
Review and assess the implication for streets, for highways and transit
services of the various development and upgrading models and structure plan
alternatives.
Prepare a planning report with costs outlining an affordable phased
program for transportation highway construction, street lighting and related
maintenance needs up to the year 2000.
8. Water Supplp
(Refer to IDA Water Supply II here)
Review ongoing rehabilitation and extension programs
9. Sewerage and Sanitation
Carry out an overview assessment of the sewage treatment plants, depots,
pumping chambers and transmisson mains of the water-borne sewerage system
serving part of Kampala. Review ongoing rehabilitation and extension
programs. Prepare up to date maps of the system and undertake a crude
condition assessment and valuation of assets. Comment on the use and
potential use of treated effluent. Review existing operation and maintenance



ANNMX 4
Appendix 1
Page 7 of 14
practices and comment on the productivity of the organization responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
Roughly assess the extent to which sewerage is dealt with by means of
septic tanks and leaching wells. Ascertain the needs of sludge removal and
the organizations (public av. private) for dealing with septic tank sludge.
Review the designs and costs of septic tanks.
Assess other means of disposing of household and body wastes. Comment
on the need for sullage drains and the types and use of pit latrines (and any
other means of dealitg with body wastes).
Comment on the existing practices and the opportunity (or other wise)
for recovering the costs of the sewerage and sanitation services. Discuss a
possible role for the private sector.
Review and assess the practical and affordable opportunities to extend
the water-borne system together under the various development and upgrading
models and structure plan alternatives.
Prepare a planning report, with costs, outlining an affordable phased
program for improvements in the sewerage and sanitation services up to the
year 2000. Discuss, inter alia, the need for education and support programs
to sustain the physical delivery of services.
10. DrinaRe
Review the rainfall statistics, permeability and run-off characteristics
for the various areas forming Kampala. Ascertain the likely run-off from
storms forecast to occur at 5, 10, 20 and 50 year intervals and relate the
findings for the likely top water levels of Lake Victoria.
Justify and recommend the storm frequency and rainfall intensity which
should be the basis for drainage design in Kampala.
Identify routes (e.g. streams and valleys) where drainage and storm
flows can discharge naturally; identify routes where pipes and culverts will
be required.
Undertake preliminary overview designs and ketches, including cost
estimates to cope with the run off from the various development models and
structure plan alternatives being developed elsewhere (up to the year 2000).
11. Refuse Collection and Disosal
Review the existing practices, staff, equipment employed, equipment
maintenance facilities, costs and all other relevant aspects of refuse
collection and disposal in Kampala
. Assess the productivity of the labor force and note the extent to which



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 8 of 14
recycling takes place. Hap the boundaries and review the existing disposal
sites and dumping grounds. Assess unfilled dump capacity and residual life.
Comment on the disposal practices and need for improvement.
Review the sources and generation of solid wastes including any
particular hazardous or noxious wastes. Assess the amounts (weight and
volume) of the wastes, its composition and its moisture content. Assess the
opportunity (if any) for recycling.
Assess the extent to which solid waste generation will increase and/or
change up to the year 2000. Identify suitable land fill sites and the extent
of civil engineering needs, including costs estimates to make them
operational.
Consider ways and means of improving solid waste collection and disposal
practices. Evaluate the alternatives by reviewing costs and benefits and
recommend a preferred system which will serve the city up to the year 2000.
Consider whether the preferred system should be administered and operated by
the municipality or the private sector, or a mix of both.
Prepare a planning report of the findings including order of magnitude
costs.
12.  Electricity
Review needs for electic power with UEB.
13.   Telecommunications
Review needs for telecommunications service with UPT.
14.  Exieting Institutional and Financial Standing of the Kampala City
Councils and Concerned Parastatal Institutions
Carry out Institutional assessment of all levels of local government
serving the Kampala area, including the National Water and Sewer Corporation.
Briefly comment on the duties and functions of the various units and on the
governing and staff structure together with age, education levels and
qualifications of staff.
Review the links with the national ministers and parastatals and the
extent to which national government policies and programs impact on the day to
day management of the capital area.
Obtain 'as built' or prepared measured drawings of all offices, depots
installations and facilities owned and operated by the local government
agencies (except schools and clinics). Prepare a report on the condition,
suitability, standard of furnishing and office equipment.



ANNMX 4
Appendix 1
Pa8e 9 of 14
To the extent possible review the local government and parastatal links
(direct and indirect) with the private sectors. Comment on the extent to
which any services or works are contracted out and the degree of control or
licensing of the private sector undertaken by various units of local
government. Comment on the possibility (benefits and costs) of privatizing
any municipa' service.
15. Demotraphic and Social Analysis
Review the results of the last census and any subsequent
demographiclsocial studies recently carried out by the government ministries,
universities, NGO's and aid agencies.
To the extent possible ascertain the number of people which have come to
the capital area since 1981 together with the natural increase which has taken
place since that time. Crudely indicate the 1991 population by wards and
assess if probable the likely age breakdown.
To the extent possible assess the number of people living in the Kampala
areas
(a) without legal title to Lt d;
(b)  without identity cards;
(c) of primary and secondary school age; in parallel with this ,task
assess the number of children not attending primary school;
(d)   in the active labor force;
(e)   who are entering the active labor force on an annual basis; and
(f)   any other relevant matters.
Draw up a list of internationally accepted socio-economic indicators
which reflect the "Situation in Kampala.' Note indicators which may be
deteriorating or improving.
To the extent possible assess the extent to which there is literacy
retention and, in association with the economic studies and work concerning
the informal sector, endeavor to obtain a crude measure for the productivity
of the labor force.
From a review of normal migratory trends ascertain the extent to which
migration is taking place (i.e. without the effects of war, famine or other
extraneous influence).
From a review of births and deaths and migratory patterns make a rough
estimate of the annual rate of population increase. From field interviews and
discussions assess the possibility of some families returning to their former
homes and tribal territories. Crudely forecast the likely population of the
national capital region in 1993 and 2000.



AME  4
Page 10 of 14
16. Economic Base Analseis
Undertake an economic base study of the Kampala area. Note labor and
capital employed in the formal agricultural, industrial, commerce, business
and service sectors. Review the work being done elsewhere on the informal
sector and to the extent possible, ascertain the links between the formal and
informal sectors. Review historical trends.
Review the results of any household budget surveys carried out by
Government in order to assess the social dimensions of the structural
adjustment process by undertaking spot field surveys and any other method
considered appropriate. Crudely calculate the salaries and wages entering the
Kampala area. Postulate on the extent to which salaries and wages (use a
percentage theory) can sustain the provision and operation of municipal
services. Comment on standards and the likely level of services which would
be affordable.
17.   Land Markets and Real Estate Analysis
Undertake a brief land market and real estate analysis to ascertain the
extent to which property and buildings change hands (legally or illegally).
Review the roles of the private (including the informal) and public sectors.
Prepare a short report outlining the findings and recommendations.
18.  Infrastructure Standards. Buildingt BY-Laws and Construction Codes
Review the infrastructure standards and costs (i.e. capital costs and
operation and maintenance costs) of municipal infrastructure. Comment on the
affordability and suitability. Discuss the interaction between density,
standards and affordability.
Review the town planning and building by-laws and construction codes.
Comment on their suitability to promote as well as control development. Make
recommendations for change.
19.  Social SuMport Programs
Review the extent to which the local agencies are involved in education,
health and social programs and the extent to which the buildings are
constructed by self-help, staffed by local agencies and supported by the
private sector, NGO and other donor agencies.
Review the designs and needs of additional facilities in order to make
up existing deficiencies and cope with growth. Prepare capital and revenue
cost estimates and assess the impact on local agencies finances.



ANNEX 4
AppendIx 1
Page 11 of 14
Iterate the findings with the consultants preparing the various
development models and structure plans alternatives. Recommend phased
programs with approximate costs.
20.   Ewvironaental and Energy Considerations
Formulate and consider a number of measures which could improve the
living environment and/or conserve energy (e.g. tree planting and the use of
solar wind energy).
Comment on the phvsical, financial and economic viability of the ideas
and recommend and cost any pilot programs which could be tested.
V. PAS  TWO: STRUCTUE PLANIN
1.    Structure Plan
Take in the outputs from the various planning reports, economic and
social projections and development models, integrate the outputs with a number
of transportation and highway alternatives and develop a number of structure
plan alternatives for the year 2000.
Critically review the alternatives for physical, financial and economic
viability; justify and recommend a preferred alternative.
2.    Written Statement
Describe the assumptions made in making the projections and plan; carry
out & number of sensitivity tests based on assumptions which vary costs -ad
benefits. Assess the risks and critical inputs needed to achieve the
strategies and objective-s of the plan. The statement should include financing
plans and forecast flows of funds together with forecast balance sheets for
each agency for the period 1993 - 1998.
3.    Identify Priority Action Program.
Identify a number of action programs which should be undertaken in the
period 1993 - 1998 and draw up design briefs and/or terms of reference, which
will describe the preparation needs of each program. The programs should be
chosen in such a way as they:
(a)   address growth and deficiencies;
(b)   improve operation and maintenance;
(c) create employment opportunities; and
(d)   develop human and financial resources at the local level.
Undertake a financial impact analysis of the proposed program on the budgets
of the municipal agencies and National Water and Sewerage Corporation.



ANX 4
Apedix 1,
Page 12 of 14
Outline the policy, institutional, financial and legislative reforms
needed to successfully achieve the objectives of the preferred strategy.
4.   PlarnlaR and ProaraumIx Unit
Indicate the staffing and institutional location of a planning
programming and budgeting unit which will monitor and evaluate the programs
and feed the results back into a continuous process of planning.
VII. PHASE THREE: ACTION PLANNING
1.   Action Programs
Part of the output from Phase Two 4- the preparation of design briefs
and terms of reference for the carrying out of an agreed list of action
programs.
The scope of vork- for each program should outline the investigations,
surveys, pilot studies, designs, calculations, institutional financial and
economic justifications necessary to confirm the feasibility of the chosen
program and prepare the preliminary engineering and cost estimates necessary
for project appraisal.
It is important that the output of each action program be couched in
such a way that is will facilitate appraisal by an international financing
agency. In order to do this it is necessary to prepare for each program
(where appropriate), preliminary engineering designs, implementation schedules
and programs and cost estimates, (differentiating between foreign and local
costs and taxes); physical and price contingencies should be included for all
proposals and recommendations. Note that some programs may not require
engineering designs, e.g., employment creation, housing finance, and
institution-building programs.
It is important also to consider whether the private sector has a role
in a particular program.
Where appropriate, the consultants must indicate how the costs of the
program can be recovered from beneficiaries by direct (and indirect) tariffs,
fees, taxes and transfers.
It is envisioned at this stage that action plans will be required for
the following subject aress
(a)   replanning and upgrading;
(b)   sanitation;
(c)  roads, street lighting and drainage;
(d)   areas (new) development (e.g. sites and services);
(a)   education and health;



AlIR= 4
Appndix 1
Page 13 of 14
(f) employment creationt
(g)   housing finance;
(h)   legislative reform, institutional and financial development; and
(i) community involvement and participation.
The definitive list will be decided at the end of Phase one. The
programs should also consider the need for technical assistance in
implementation and operation.
VII. PEPORTS
An Inception Report will be written within one month of mobilization
followed by a Draft Structure Plan/Written Statement Report at the end of
Phase One. Separate 2ction plan reports will be written and summarized in a
draft Summary Action Plans Report to be available at the end of Phase Two.
VIII. LEVEL OF EFFORT
Data collection and analysis of physical planning issues under Pha-e I
hat already begun with the assistance of GTZ. The consultant should therefore
review the progress to date and make proposals for technical input
accordingly. It is envisioned that the level of effort required for Phase Two
will be approximately 6 person-months of expatriate and 10 person-months of
local consulting time.
The level of effort required for Phase Three will depend on the findings
of Phase Two and the agreed list of action programs, and will be negotiated in
due course. At this stage it is envisioned that the involvement of
expatriates will reduce and the local consultants increase.
The consultants, in preparing their financial proposals (see separate
request for proposals), will be expectsd to allow for incentive payments to
counterpart staff, the amounts to be stated in the letter of agreement.
IX. TIMING
It is envisioned that the work will be accomplished in twenty-four
months in accordance with the following timetable:
3     6     9     12    15    18    21    24
Phase One         X     X      X
(nine months)
Phase Two                            X     X
(six months)
Phase Two                                        X     X      X
(nine months)



ANNEX 4
dAppeudi 1
Page 14 of 14
International
Agency Missions   every four-six months
X. GORINT INPUTS
The government and local agencies vill use their good offices to assist
and facilitate the work of the consultants in every way possible. To this end
a high level steering committee will be set up to guide and assist the
consultants. The government and local agencies will also endeavor to seek and
coordinate the work of the donor agencies and NGO active in Rampala.
Counterparts from Physical Planning Department, MOHVD and KCC will be selected
to work with the consultants in all the areas of research and endeavors. The
government will provide office accommodation.
The consultants will be to provide transport and all necessary support
facilities including communication and data processing equipment.
The goverrment will keep the consultants informed of relevant tectnaical
studies which may be undertaken during the course of the urban development
planning program.
Any vehicles and data processing equipment used will ultimately be
transferred to the new urban planning group on completion of the study.



AR 5
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Provision of Serviced Landt Kawaala Sites & Services Schem
A. Background and Project Formulation
1.        The doubling of Kampala's population over the past 20 years (to
an estimated 750,000) has not been accompanied by a commensurate expansion
of basic infrastructure, urban services, housing and community facilities.
Uncontrolled land use in Kampala has created a haphazard pattern of urban
development for which the provision of services is difficult and expensive.
There is evidence of significant overcrowding and unsanitary living
conditions among the low and 'mixed-income' groups that make up more than
two thirds of Kampala's population. In addition to the need to satisfy a
pent-up demand for affordable serviced land for lower and middle income
groups, there is also a need to develop a framework for the rationalization
of existing land use to guide future development.
2.        KCC has recognized the need for additional serviced land and for
more orderly planning and development. It is in the process of
establishing a Planning and Land Management Department, excised from the
City Engineer's Department, to be responsible for all long-term (strategic)
planning, local planning schemes, planning control, development projects,
surveying and land management issues. The designation of the department is
avaiting ministerial approval.
S.        The political upheaval which affected Uganda throughout the
1970's and early 1980's effectively iso!ated the country from knowledge and
experience of contemporary policies concerning the provision shelter by
means of assisted self-help efforts. The program presents an opportunity
to demonstrate the benefits of the approach on a project basis while also
attempting to improve urban management more generally. The only other
attempt to introduce the notion of aided self-help housing in Uganda
concerns a community development project in the Namuwongo area of Kampala
aimed at extending infrastructure and services while replanning and
reallocating some 900 plots to mostly lower income residents of an already
built-up area. The project, being implemented by the Ministry of Housing
and Urban Development (tOHUD), has been receiving assistance from UNDP and
UNCBS since 1986. The proposed IDA-financed program will draw on the
experience gained in implementing the Namuwongo project during a time of
high inflation, scarcity of building materials, lack of housing finance and
skills shortages.



Al=  S
Page 2 of 6
B. Protram Obiectives
4.        The objectives of the serviced land program in Kampala are:
(a) to demonstrate the feasibility of a housing delivery system
which relies on the public sector to service residential land
which is subsequently developed by the private sector;
(b) to provide a range of opportunities for eligible households to
construct their own dwellings on serviced land in Kampala; and
(c) to target this provision primarily towards the lower and middle
income population of the city.
C. Detailed Description of Program
5.        The project will finance the planning and servicing of a peri-
urban site at Kawaala located six kilometers to the north of the city
center in Rawempe Division (See IBRD Map 224'2). The site is mostly public
land and is situated near areas of existing employment and trunk
infrastructure networks. A 47 hectare portion of the site will be serviced
to provide approximately 1,000 plots, three quarters of which will be for
allocation to low-income households. Standards of infrastructure will be
geared to affordability and a policy of full cost recovery will be applied.
Land will be set aside for the construction of social, community and
commercial facilities. Provision has been made for the construction of one
two-stream primary school as part of the project.
6.        The project site belongs to KCC although some privately-held
leases have been identified. The rights of existing residents occupying
land under customary tenancy will be recognized and compensation for crops
and buildings will be paid under existing legislation. Every effort will
be made to avoid the displacement and dislocation of existing residents
and, wherever possible existing structures will be integrated in the new
layouts. Only those affected by infrastructure easements, rights-of-way
and construction will be required to move. Estimated to number about 40
households, they will be resettled within the project in plots demarcated
at the outset not to interfere with construction.
7.        The plots, which range in size between a minimum of 200 square
meters and a maximum of 450 square meters, will be serviced with bitumen
roads, footpaths, storm drains, water supply, electricity and security
street lighting to minimal but improvable standards. Substructures for
ventilated improved pit latrines with concrete covers will be built as part
of the civil works and sold with the plots. Designs for the water
reticulation will be approved by NWSC. UEB will undertake the provision of
electricity for optional hook-up by project beneficiaries. Standards will
vary: the larger plots, which will be sold at market prices, will have
vehicular access and on-plot water supply; smaller plots, aimed at lower
incoms groups, will have mostly pedestrian access and be provided with
water at communal stand pipes (Appendix 1).



ANNEI 5
Page 3 of 6
8.        The site extends from the top of Kawaala hill northwards down to
a low-lying marsh area. The soil comprises red coffee top soil with
underlying areas of laterite gravel and clay with good permeability. Parts
of the site are steeply sloping, in a manner not untypical of Kampala,
built, as it is, on seven hills. Surface water drainage has been designed
to minimize the risk of soil erosion by ensuring that drains are adequately
sized and lined where runoff velocities are highest. Similarly,
engineering studies have indicated the preference for all roads to be
surfaced to preserve their useful life with minimal recurrent maintenance.
The permeability of the soil has been assessed as adequate for the proper
functioning of ventilated improved pit latrines and septic tanks.
9.        Three quarters of the plots will be 200m2 in area with the
balance being equally split between 200-300m2 plots and 300m2 and over.
Plots generally have length/width ratios of 2:l, suitable for economic
infrastructure servicing. The majority of the plots are oriented parallel
to the slope of the site to minimize on-plot stormwater accumulation and to
reduce the need for deep house foundations. The physical planning layout
accommodates plots for the following community and commercial facilities:
Facility            Number          Total Area
(a)  Shops and markets         2         0.83 ha
(b)  Places of assembly        2         0.72 ha
(c)  Nursery school            5         1.19 ha
(d)  Primary school            2         3.05 ha
(e)  Secondary school          1         2.70 ha
10.       The land use profile for the total 47 ha site is as follows:
Land use                  Total          Percent
Area
Power reserve                  1.80       4
Community facilities           8.49      18
Roads/parking/paths           12.29      26
Residential                   24.58      52
Total                         47.16     100
A total of 1,009 residential plots will be developed with a net density of
41 plots per hectare.
11.       Households will be offered a choice of standard core house
designs suitable for self-help construction, expandable in a number of
different ways, and which meet KCC approval. Beneficiaries will also be
able to construct a house of non-standard design provided that it has
passed the technical scrutiny of KCC.



ANU 5
Page 4 of 6
D. Proaram Costs and imancinc
12.       The total base costs of servicing land at Kawaala is estimated
at US$3.4 million, of which the foreign exchange component is estimated at
732 of the total component costs. These figures include engineering design
and supervision costs but exclude technical assistance (Project Manager,
Housing and Community Development Advisor) and related training. The sum
includes US$1.44 million in off-site costs, primarily for the construction
of roads (US$1.0 million) and bringing a high voltage electricity line to
the site (US$0.2 million), both of which will serve a much wider community
than the project site. On-site base costs amount to US$1.6 million. The
estimated cost of the two-stream primary school is US$0.45 million. Basic
building materials in the form of cement and roofing sheets and brick- and
block-making equipment will be provided at an estimated cost of US$0.35
million, including basic facilities for storing building materials and
equipment on site (Appendix 2).
13.       Off-site costs and the cost of servicing community facilities
will not be passed on to beneficiaries, but will be charged to general
revenue. The sale price of plots will include the full cost of land (value
of plot plus compensation), land survey, on-site roads and drains, water
supply, pit latrines, electricity (local distribution), professional fees
and interest during construction. The larger, better located and serviced
plots, numbering about 250, will be offered for cash sale at market prices.
Proceeds of the sale, estimated to yield a net profit of US$0.4 million,
and the cross-subsidy from commercial plots sales will be directed toward
reducing the sale price of the 750 200m2 plots. The affordabilitty of the
scheme to low-income households is demonstrated in Appendix 3. A serviced
plot is affordable by a family earning Ush 36,000 (US$90) per month,
assuming up to 30S of total income is allocated to shelter expenditure. It
is assumed that the initial superstructure occupied by the lowest income
group would consist of its existing dwelling made of temporary materials
moved to the new serviced plot.
14.       XCC will provide a form of long-term credit (after receipt of a
lOZ down-payment) to the lower-income beneficiaries which will enable them
to amortize the cost of their plot over 15 years at a rate of 20? with one
year's grace period. Project beneficiaries will be permitted to construct
their dwellings to Grade II building standards using informal sources of
credit.
E. Implementation
15.       KCC will be responsible for the implementation of the program.
In view of its institutional weakness, manpower constraints and lack of
experience in implementing similar projects, KCC will need to develop
capacity through external assistance, hiring of new staff and on-the-job
training. 'herever possible, existing departments, staff and procedures
will be used and built upon. The implementation modalities will, in any
case, be kept as simple and as transparent as possible. Some lessons can



AM= 5
Page 5 of 6
be learnt from the experience gained in implementing the Ministry of
Housing and Urban Development (MOHUD) and UNDP/Shelter Afrique - financed
Namuwongo project, particularly with respect to land acquisition,
compensation, beneficiary selection, financing and cost recovery.
16.       KCC will establish a technical coordinating and support unit
headed by a Project Manager to be hired expressly for this purpose and
assisted by a Housing and Comuunity Development Advisor. The purpose of
this unit will be to coordinate the functions of all KCC departments
(especially City Engineer's, Treasurer's, Social Services) in implementing
the project, supervise the beneficiary selection and plot allocation
procedures, coordinate civil works construction with contractors, RCI
Committees and residents, assist beneficiaries during the plot
consolidation stage and coordinate building materials and employment
creation activities. In addition, the unit will also identify and
coordinate on KCC's behalf, with ongoing, complementary programs, such as
those financed under PAPSCA and NGOs, as well as developing collaborative
approaches with private sector developers to provide low-cost affordable
housing on a broader scale than in the past.
17.       Project beneficiaries will be selected using existing DCC
procedures but applying selection criteria specific to the project, as
outlined in Appendix 4 of this annex. These criteria differ from those
currently employed by KCC when allocating land insofar as they favor lower-
income groups who are not land owners in the Kampala area. Existing
residents of the area will have first priority, after which plot
beneficiaries will be chosen publicly by ballot from among those that meet
the basic requirements. Plot application modalities will follow existing
practice, as follows:
(a)       potential beneficiaries will purchase a plot application
form from KCC following a public announcement;
(b)       the plot applicants will submit applications with
supporting documentation (on residence and non ownership of
land in Kampala) to the technical coordinating and support
unit for initial screening and verification;
(c)       applications which meet all the basic conditions will be
forwarded to the MCC Land Allocation Committee for vetting;
(d)       applications that meet all the criteria, have been verified
and vetted by the Land Allocation Committee are then pooled
and successful beneficiaries' names drawn by public ballot
(e.g. at a football stadium) with all beneficiaries and
other members of the public invited.
18.       Prior to the start of construction, existing residents affected
by civil works (roads, drainage, footpaths, etc) will be compensated and
allocated newly demarcated plots within the project area. An attempt has
been made to minimize such disruptions in the planned layout and some
adjustments will be made during the final survey to mitigate displacement.



Page 6 of 6
The cooperation and assistance of the local RCI will be sought in dealing
with relocation and construction issues.
19.       Civil works construction, which will be let as one package (with
the exception of electricity distribution which is to be done by UEB)
through ICB to attract competent contractors, will be supervised by the
consultant Resident Engineer (RE). The RE will be assisted by staff
seconded from the City Engineer's Department (Highways) who will be paid an
incentive allowance and receive on-the-job construction experience. This
staff, consisting of a Highways Engineer, will upon completion of the civil
works, be absorbed into the Kawempe Division highway maintenance unit of
KCC and be responsible for all highway and drainage maintenance activities
in the area. Additional staff may be seconded by NWSC to assist in the
supervision of the water distribution system, which will be taken over and
maintained by NWSC upon expiry of the contractor's maintenance period.
20.       Plot consolidation and the organization of beneficiaries during
house construction will be assisted by the Housing and Community
Development Advisor. Community participation and the deve'lopment of micro-
enterprises will be encouraged. To that end, the project will also assist
the groups in greatest need with building materials and equipment/machines
for making building materials (bricks, blocks, tiles, etc). Co-operative
enterprises will be encouraged among beneficiaries. Beneficiaries will
also have the opportunity of leasing garden plots in the designated valley
reserve between the site and Hoima Road (to the West) as well as the
northern swampy fringes. This should complement income and/or allow some
consumption of staple foods, essential in the current economic
circumstances, particularly for the lower income groups. The piped natural
springs in the area, which provide employment to some 50 water-carriers,
will be protected.
21.       Community mobilization will be provided by the local resistance
committees. RCs will oversee the running of water and refuse committees
which will be established at grass-roots level to coordinate the collection
and payment of fees charged for these services by the public authorities.
The administration and collection of plot repayments from beneficiaries
will be the responsibility of the Treasurer's Department of MCC, which is
already being strengthened under the project.
22.       The area adjoining the project site will benefit from off-site
infrastructure built under the project. It is intended (not under the
Project) to declare the whole of Kawaala area (including Mailo land) an
action area, prepare an area plan, and enforce the plan on would-be
developers. Land owned by XCC, but lying outside the project site, on
steeper sloping ground, will be sub-divided into larger plots, and leased
to higher-income groups at market rates. Premiums should generate a
surplus over the cost of extending infrastructure networks to these, and
other similar areas.



ANME]( S
Appendix I
Pag 1 of 1
KAAALA SMES AND SERVICES SCOME4
SERVICE STANDARDS FOR INFRASRUIURE
Service                      Stndrd
OFF-STE INFRAST  CURE
Roads                        Kaa"la R,ads 80.0 a re/7.0 a Gw
Holos Roa: 40.0 a roe
Loop-road: 20.0 a res/7.0 m cu
All wearing courses  prim coat/cauble oel
Siorm Drains                Earth llned drains except fheor slope
exceeds 1/20 where concrete lined
Culvert, providw at road/paths crossings
Outfall as dictted by site conditions
Street lIehting              Traffic route standards on 10.0 a poles
at 80 a center (deoerred until rest of
city Is up to standard)
ON-SIE INFRASTRUCURE
Roads                        Minor retdential:12/15 a ren/5.6 m ce
Acess: 12/16 cw/4.5 a roe
Cul-de-Sac.: 12/1C m res/4.5 m ow
All wearing course prime coat/double sewl
Car parking                  SOX off-plot car parking
Existing ground graded to falls, compaction
Footpaths                    8.0   reu/1.5 C  wide
bitumen sl wearing course
Stormater drains             Earth lined drlas except where slope
exceeds 1/20 where concrete lined
Culverts provided at rodJ/peths crossings
Outfall as dictated by site conditions
Water                        Capacity for 100X house connections
Standpipoe at 85,  wlking distance
Per capita consumption 80 led connections
80 led standpipe
Peak demnd 0 2xaverage
Fire hydrante   800   centers
Sanitation                   Septic tanks for plots >4002
Pit latrine for *Il other roe plots
Refuse                       Hardstandings provided  t each car park
for location of rfuse skipe
Street lghting Saeurity lighting standards on 6.0 o pole.
at 80 ce ntre (deferred untO I rest of city
up to Standard)
Eletricity                   By U0; 88KV Itno to $MVA substation
2 No. 11KV feeder IIn e to 5 No. tOOKVA
tramtormer; 8 phase low voltage notwork
to house (optional hook-up)



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page I of 1
KAWAAL SITES ND SERVICES SCHEME
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
May 1990 base costs (sxcluding contingenie.s)
Local   Forelgn  Total
(US '000)
A. OFF-Sm WORKS
Road work*                                   160      479      689
S.. drainnage                                77      116      194
Street tighting                               21      119      140
Water supply                                   1        5        7
Electriclty                                   48      246      28
Compensation                                  25        -       26
Sub-total Ott-site                               829      965    1,292
B. ON-SITE WORKS
Plot demarcation                              14       57       72
Compensation                                  85        -       86
Site preparation                               4       12       15
Roads & footpaths                            144      482      676
S.W. drainage                                 61       02      164
Water supply                                  29      116      147
Refuse disposal                               12       16       81
Electrical distribution                       s0      201      261
Street A security lighting                    20      116      187
Pit latrine substructures                    100      150      260
Sub-total On-site                                471    1,196    1,687
C. COMMUNITY FACILIMTES
Primary school                               185      815      460
Sub-total Community Facilities                   185      815      450
D. MATERIALS A EqUIPMENT
Building materials                             -      80O     8gO
Block-making equipment                         -       60       s0
Sub-total Materials and Equipment                  -      850      850
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Engineering design A supervision              40      86       897
Total                                   978   8,168    4,167



tM  5
Appendix 3
Page 1 of I
KW      STES ms SERVICES SCHEME
PLOT AFORDOAUITY
(Al f igure. In US dol laor)
TYPE A   TYPE 1   TYPE C
PLOT    PLOT    PLOT
PLOT CHARE'i
Sale, .rlce of plot 1/                 1,241    2,710    S,7
Stamp duty  6x a2                                 186      1S
Sub-Tol                                1,80     2,840    8,911
Ls 10 deposit                            118      259      8
Balan  from loan                       1,115    2,687    8,566
lonthly loan Repayment
(15 Ye0r,  0 206 mnt.)                 20.78    8620    49.76
SERVICE CHORES
Rat"                                    2.00    5.00    10.00
Water charge                            2.60    6.50    9.00
Ground rent                             1 90     2.00    4.00
Bad debt rserve                         1.00    2.00    4.00
Total monthly service charge                     6.60    14.50    27.00
Total konthly Outgo1ng                          27.88    50.70    76.76
Minimum Required Household Incom
(easuming 80X ot  ncomoe to shelter)               01      169      2t6
Notess 1/ Including pit latrine substructure
2/ Type S and C plots would be sold outright. These monthly
loan repayment figures are for comparative purposes only



AM 5
Appendi 4
Page I of 1
KAVAALA SITES AND SnVICUS sCUDME
Beneficiary Selection Criteria
1.        To qualify for the allocation of Type A plot beneficiaries must
meet the following basic conditionst
(a) Must be over 21 years of age
(b) Demonstrate a minimum 2 years' residence
in the Kampala area. 1/
5C) Should not own any other plot of land
in the Kampala area. 1/ 21
5d) Must be Uganda citizens
(e) Have a demonstrated maximum income of
Ushs 100,000 per month.
2.        Every effort will be made to accommodate current bona fide
leaseholders and residents in the project area withisn the planned layout.
However, some resident's properties and houses may be affected by necessary
infrastruct-re casements, right-of-way or community facilities.
3.        Priority in the selection process will be give to current
leaseholdersiresidents in the project area whose houses will be affected by
civil works construction. Next order of priority wiLl be given to long-
time residents of the area, who may not have a valid lease.
4.        Beneficiaries of the remaining plots will be randomly and
publicly selected from the pool of applicants who meet all the basic
selection criteria outlined above after current residents have been
accomodated.
5.        KCC will seek the prior approval of IDA for the final
beneficiary application forms, screening and selection modalities.
1l   The above two conditions to be verified with the assistance of XCI
Chairman, or equivalent, from applicant's current place of residence.
2/   Heads of households who already have a plot in the Xawaala project
area will be eligible to apply for substitute land, even if they have
plot(s) elsewhere in Kampala.



AMN3Z 6
Page I of 4
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Rating System In Kampala
A. Backaround
1.          The rating system, a property tax with the revenue accruing to the
local government, is long established in Uganda. It is now based on the
rental value of real property with the owner being liable for payment. The
essential facts relating to the rating system in the KCC area at present are
as follows:
(a)      In FY1988 income from rates amounted to U Sh 7.5 million out of a
total from all locally generated sources of about U Sh 351 million
or about 2S of the total income, very much less than graduated tax
(55?), market rents and dues (272) and licenses (72). The rating
system now collects an average of U Sh 10 per head, compared to
Graduated Tax which collects U Sh 362 per head;
(b)      In July 1989 there had be'n no revaluation since 1982 when
valuatior. lists for 12 of the 15 districts of Kampala were
produced containing about 27,500 entries.  No supplementary
valuation lists have been prepared since 1982. It is likely that
many existing properties are missing from the valuation lists. In
addition, the assessed property values are well out of date now
due to inflation, in some cases by a factor of more than 30;
(c)      A rate of 15S is set.  This is less than the legal maximum of 202.
Based on the estimate of the total rateable value in the 1982
lists being about U Sh 1,000 million, the theoretical amount
collectable is U Sh 150 million. The amount collected is thus
only 5?. The full costs of valuation and collection almcst
certainly exceed the yield. The rating system, therefore, makes
no net contribution to revenues; and
(d)      Payments to ICC in lieu rates by Gov'4rnaent bodies are woefully in
arrears, further straining the capacity of the City to provide
badly needed public services.
2.          There are a number of causes for the deteriorating performance
which reached its lowest point in 1988s
(a)   Owing to the lack of qualified staff, difficulties in training
valuation assistants, lack of equipment and the security
situation, there has been a failure to revalue properties since
1982 when valuation lists for 12 of the 15 districts were



ANNX 6
Page 2 of 4
produced. Since then hyperinflation has rendered the figures
meaningless. Notwithetanding, a new revaluation of the central
business district and for Mbuya has recently been completed and is
in the process of being used as the basis for future property tax
assessments.
(b)   It is estimated that more than half the properties may be
excluded from the valuation lists. (Although excluded properties
may commonly be the smaller ones and represent a small proportion
of the total rateable value); and
(c)   The collection performance has been poor (possibly only 5Z) owing
to many very small sums being due and the absence of proper
accounting methods or controls, resulting in the failure to issue
rate demands to the majority of rate payers.
3.          The fundamental issues giving rise to the low level of performance
of the system have been traced to the following weaknesses, for which the
Project proposes countermeasures, the lack of accountancy training and the
gradual deterioration of the accounting and controls systems: the shortage of
trained valuation assistants; the absence of training facilities for valueres;
the lack of transport facilities and much essential office equipment; the
absence of computer facilities; the apparent lack of accountability to senior
management of the staff in the rating section; and the division of
responsibility for valuation and assessment three ways between Ministry of
Lands and Survey, Hinistry of Local Government and KCC.
4.          Since 1988 [CC and the Government Valuer have achieved some
commuendable improvements notwithstanding the continuing shortages of trained
manpower and equipment. The district of Mbuya has been revalued by the RCC
valuers. The Central Business District has been revalued by the Government
Valuer. [CC has initiated a scheme of provisional rating designed to trace
all rateable properties, with the help of the RCs, and charge set amounts on
most properties incorrectly excluded from the valuation lists. The scheme was
passed by Council in May 1990. These improvements are to come on stream
before September 1990 and demonstrate that [CC has the ability to organize
resources and the political will to do so. Pa-allel improvements in the
collection performance are being implemented and as a result [CC has
undertaken, as a condition of negotiations, to collect rates of Ush 115m in
1989190.
B. Obiectives
5.          The aim of the property tax rehabilitation component of the
Project is to improve the performance of the rating system for [CC by methods
which are both replicable and sustainable so that it becomes the largest
source of revenue within three years of the start of the project, yielding 100
times the present total or not less than Ush 1,500 millionl- at the equivalent
of 1989 levels, thereby trebling the income available to KCC. More



ANEX 6
Page 3 of 4
specifically the objectives of the program ares
(a)   To introduce measures vhich will allow Kampala's valuation and
rating system to remain buoyant with respect to price inflation of
real property;
(b)   To increase rate collection efficiency; and
(c)   To improve the quality of management information about rates to
enable KCC and all ratepayers to be properly informed about the
status of rate accounts;
C. Detailed DescriDtiom
6.         Achieving the objectives will include the following activitiest
(a)   The establishment of the KCC District Valuation office with the
delegated responsibility for the preparation of the new valuation
lists for Kampala;
(b)   The introduction of a mechanism to cope with different levels of
value in valuation lists for different zones in the city;
(c)   The intensive local training of a cadre of valuation assistants
through innovative programs (including on-the -job training and
distance teaching) developed through the LGRC; and the provision
of short-term study tours for distance learning candidates and
existing qualified staff;
(d)   The identification and surveying of all those properties at
present incorrectly excluded from the valuation lists, using the
return forms gathered for provisional rating, and the inclusion of
the high value property in supplementary valuation lists; as an
interim measure, after the change in the law in (b) above, to use
the 1982 valuation lists to collect a higher level of rates from a
greater number of properties;
(e)   The revaluation of all rateable properties in the KCC area within
24 months of the start of the project;
(f)   The acquisition of necessary equipment, including vehicles, survey
equipment, and computers and proper training in its operation and
maintenance; and
(g)   In conjunction with the training element for revenue accounting,
to train KCC staff in improved methods of billing and collection
of rates.



AmE= 6
Page 4 of 4
7.          Technical assistance and training, to be supplied through the
twinning arrangement described in Annex 7, will include two experienced
valuers for up to 60 person months. One valuer will be attached to KCC as the
Deputy District Valuation Officer while the other will be involved in training
in conjunction with the Local Government Resource Center at TPA.
D. Costs and Financina
8.          The costs of technical assistance, shown in Annex 7, is estimated
to be US$0.9 million. The cost of training, both locally and abroad, has been
included in the overall training budget shown in Annex 7.   In addition,
vehicles, equipment and training aids will be required as detailed below.
Cost Estimate
Local       Foreign      Total
1. Vehicles                                                    (US$ '000)
4 cars 0$12,000                             48           48
2 minibuses 0$ 18,000                       36           36
10 H/Cycles 0 $80                            8            8
10 Bicycles e $100                           1            1
2. Office and Surveying equipment                        10          10
3. Computerization if applicable                         80          80
TOTALS                                        nil       183          183
S. Implementation
9.          Revaluation of Kampala will be undertaken by the District
Valuation Office accommodated in KCC under the policy direction of the
Ministry of Lands and Survey, the valuation authority in Uganda.
Strengthening of the KCC's rating function, including billing and collections,
will be undertaken under the direction of the City Treasurer. Both valuation
and rating activities will benefit from training activities to be provided by
the technical assistance team working in collaboration with the LGRC at IPA.



AM= 7
Page 1 of 8
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Institutional Development of Local Government Bodies
A. Background and Program Formulation
1.        The First Urban Project for Uganda incluces a wide range of
technical assistance and training inputs to serve individual components and
different operating agencies. These individual inputs are packaged in such
a way that they are complementary and can achieve some economy of scale,
while holding promise for sustainability beyond the life of the project.
By integrating the technical assistance and training called for in the
various components, there is the possibility of achieving a synergy where
the total output exceeds the declared and anticipated achievements of the
individual components.
2.        On the demand side of the TA and training equation are the
Kampala City Council, (RCC), the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the
expanding numbers of local authorities with decentralized roles and
responsibilities. The supply side, within the country, is represented by a
handful of institutions with minimal degrees of capacity, commitment and
demonstrated service. All have been caught up in the recent history of
Uganda and, therefore, lack the basic resources to achieve the minimum
goals for which they were created.
3.        Since other sections of the report detail the problems and
opportunities associated with various programatic components of this
project, and the operating agencies assigned to carry them out, this
section will be limited to a discussion of the general need for technical
assistance and training.
4.        KCC does not currently have the quality or quantity of
administrative, technical or professional staff required to carry out
either its short term commitments to the citizens of Kampala - or its long
range goals as defined by this project and others. Many established posts
at the principal officer level or above remain vacant or are manned in an
acting capacity. Compensation levels for MCC employees fall far short of
their minimum needs forcing them to rely upon other jobs to *make ends
meet'. Rewards for exemplary performance are unheard of. The top cadre of
officers, although stretched thin, is competent and committed.
Unfortunately, they lack back-up personnel to support them in their day-to-
day endeavors. Operational plans often remain only plans with no hope for
follow through. Beneath the thin veneer of administrative, professional
and technical (APT) personnel who keep KCC functioning, there is a deep
chasm that only stops at the bottom of the organization. RCC is like a two
crusted pie with not much filling of substance. The TA and training effort
must necessarily address itself to building a middle cadre of APT officers
who can both fill the current void and build toward a sustainable level of
public service for the future.



AM=U 7
Page 2 of 8
5.        Training is, at this point, an aspiration, not a reality, within
KCC. There are no training officers, no training support staff, and no
training program. But, there is a commitment to training and a realistic
picture of training as a management strategy. The Town Clerk and other key
officers know what training is required, how it should be designed and
delivered, and what it should achieve. This shared understanding about
what training can and cannot achieve, and how that achievement can be
realized, represents a sound and realistic base from which to build.
6.        To summarize, the Project's TA and training components for KCC
do the following:
(a) they cut across functional components such as solid waste
management, urban markets, and street and drainage
maintenance;
(b)  tliay address fundamental short-falls in financial and
administrative support systems; and
(c) they strive to build, through training and development, a
competent organization and work force that can be sustained
and further developed beyond the life of the project.
7.        The second organization on the demand side of TA and training
support in the Project is the Ministry of Local Goverr'ent. While the TA
and training approach prescribed for XCC is holistic and pervasive, the
interventions into HLG will be more specific, focusing on its leadership
role in providing financial management training and associated services to
an expanding system of local governments throughout the country.
Decentralization has swept Uganda with hurricane force. In its wake is an
ever increasing need to engage in institution building at the
organizational level of local government and to develop specific
competencies at the individual level of interaction. Within the Project is
a modest commitment and strategy to assist MLG in meeting these needs.
8.        There is consensus that MLG must fulfill a leadership function
in training of local government officials. For example, MLG should be
providing leadership ins establishing overall human resource development
policies for local government; assessing training needs and putting
priorities on those that are most critical; setting standards; garnering
resources; and monitoring and evaluating the overall effects of training,
as it becomes a mainstream management and institution building strategy
within the local government process. To this end, the Project will
support MLG's leadership role, providing technical assistance to establish
an institutional base from which to develop a long term training program to
serve local governments.
9.        The third component on the demand side of TA and training are
local governments in general - those local authorities beyond the
boundaries of KCC. In addition to Kampala, which is classified as a City
Council, there are 34 districts, 13 municipalities, 23 self accounting town
councils, four non-self accounting town councils; and 18 town boards. The
scope of MW's mandate to maintain a viable local government system is



AJNNU 7
Page 3 of 8
expanding as more and more local authorities are created and given self-
accounting status. The most recent development is to subdivide counties
into self-government units. This would add another 700 or so local
authorities to MLG's mandate. While this project will initiate a
decentralized strategy of training delivery, there is no expectation that
all local government training needs within Uganda will be catered for
within the resources of the project. While a sizable number of local
government training events will occur under the sponsorship of this
project, the intent is to t
(a) build MLG's capacity to manage local government trair.ing on a
national basis; and
(b) develop a training delivery system that can ultimately meet
local government's training needs in a decentralized manner.
10.       The supply side of training, or the capacity to respond to
training needs, is largely non-existent within the operating agencies
themselves (KCC, MLG, and its network of local authorities). Beyond the
training capacity of operating agencies, which is at best minimal, there is
little to evoke enthusiasm. The Institute of Public Administration (IPA),
formed in 1967 and under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public
Service and Cabinet Affairs, has long had a program to serve local
governments but its current efforts are paltry, given the needs. The
bright spot in their training current efforts is a linkup with Glasgow
Polytechnic College to offer a 3-month course at IPA in auditing and
accounting. Nearly half of this year's class are local government
officials. The best students as determined by examination at the end of
the IPA portion of the program go to Scotland for attachments with the
Strathclyde Regional Council.
11.       Beyond the Scottish connection, IPA's program is dated, largely
uninspiring and inefficient. While they still offer a nine-month diploma
course in Local Government Administration, its enrollment has dropped to an
uneconomical level (15 this year) and the quality of trainees has
diminished (according to ML(; sources). The potential exists to turn IPA
around but it will require an infusion of resources, a redefinition of
m±ision and a program strategy that is contemporary, developmental and
streamlined to serve the decentralized needs of local government.
12.       Beyond IPA is a smattering of training institutes and programs
which have the potential of helping KCC, MLG and local governments, in
general, meet their human resource development needs. They includes The
Management Training and Advisory Center (HTAC) under the Ministry of
Industrys various vocational schools; and the Hpigi Training Institute,
currently under the aegis of MLC. Unfortunately, most are understaffed,
under funded and underused. The challenge of TA and training under the
Project is to meet the iuiediate needs of the various operating components
within the project witle building a sustainable institutional base and
capacity from which local government training needs can be met in the long
run.



ANMEX 7
Page 4 of 8
B. Objectives
13.       The TA and training component of the Project will accomplish two
broad, interrelated goals:
(a) support the short-term, more lmdetiate TA and training
needs of KCC and MLG in planning and implementing the other
program components of the project; and
(b) develop the institutional framework and capacity to meet
future local government training and organization
development needs on a sustainable basis.
14.       More specifically, the TA and training component will strive tos
(a) provide a linking arrangement between RCC and one or two
similar local authorities capable of providing technical
assistance and training opportunities in the areas of
financial management, management of urban markets, solid
waste management. street and drain maintenance, housing,
vehicle maintenance, property valuation and rating, and
general municipal management;
(b) establish and equip a training unit and capacity within XCC
to manage training and to provide in-service, on the job
training opportunities on a continuing basis;
(c) identify and meet, to the extent possible within the
resources of the project, specific individual and work unit
training needs which are important to the success of
project implementation;
(d) train a cadre of training and organization development
specialists, from a number of operating and support
organizations, who can be utilized full-time and part-time
to meet emergent local government training needs within the
country;
(e) help establish and equip a training management unit within
MLG to provide overall leadership to local government
training and institutional development;
(f) develop a series of local government training packages and
operational manuals to address specific needs within Uganda
local governments;
(g) renovate and equip a small facility on the IPA campus to
serve as a central resource development center to cater to
the training, research, consultancy and informational needs
of Uganda's local governments;



Page 5 of 8
(h) conduct a minimum of lO,COO person days of training in the
first two full years of operation; and
(i) provide transportation support to the training function and
to a limited number of local authorities to assist them in
revenue mobilization.
C. Detailed Description of the Program
15.       The program will have several distinct components.
There would be linking arrangements between RCC and one or two local
authorities to provide direct on-line technical assistance as identified
under the various components of the project. It is expected the supplying
organization(s) will provide individual technical advisors for varying
lengths of time (from two or three months to two years) in the following
operational areas: market management: solid waste management; street and
drain maintenance; low income housing scheme development and management;
financial management, huma-n resource development, and vehicle maintenance.
(Other needs as they arise and are identified throughout the linking
component would be considered within the resources of the program).
16.       In addition to providing direct technical assistance through the
placement of specialists in RCC, the supplier would identify and facilitate
attachments for MCC officers in their own organizations or like-minded
organizations for varying periods of time. These would be based on
specific learning needs identified during the course of the project.
17.       The formal training component for both KCC and MLG (on behalf of
all local authorities in Uganda) would be initiated by a 4-6 weeks training
of trainers workshop with at least one follow-up workshop. This workshop
would be held in Uganda and include no more than 24 trainees, selected in
teams from KCC, MLG, IPA, HTAC, regional representatives of smaller local
authorities, and at least one other training institution.
18.       The program will focus on theory and skill development in such
areas as experiential learning, action research, process consultation and
organization interventions. A nearby local authority would be used during
the course as a learning laboratory for identifying training needs and
designing training events to meet them.
19.       Three operational training units would be developed as soon
after the TOT as possible:
(a)  one would be located in the Annex building at IPA and operate as
the central resource center for all local government training,
working in close collaboration with MLG's training management
unit and XCC's in-service training unit.
This center would be seen as a physical extension to the
training efforts of MLG and KCC and encourage their active
involvement in all activities. The staff of the resource center
would include a local training coordinator; a full time



AM=E 7
Page 6 of 8
expatriate adviser for 24 months (both skilled in the full range
of contemporary training and organization development
interventions); a media and training design specialist and
support staff.
(b)  The second training unit would operate out of MLG and be
responsible for: training policy formulation, training needs
identification; setting training standards and priorities;
garnering resources; and monitoring and evaluating local
government training. Because training, in its broadest
interpretation, encompasses a variety of organizational
interventions, the Local Government Inspectors, working out of
MLG, would at times be involved in delivering training.   MLG
would be equipped to carry out this leadership role using
existing personnel located in the Local Government Inspectorate.
They would also control a sizable budget to be used to fund
training efforts for local authorities, nationwide.
(c) The third training unit to be mobilized under the Project would
be located in KCC, directly under the Deputy Town Clerk in
charge of Administration (proposed but not yet approved by
Central Government). This unit would be staffed by MCC but
supplied by a full tine expatriate advisor in the initial months
of operation. In addition, the project would provide for
renovation and furnishing of a training room and necessary
support space; training aids and equipment and a training
budget to support training events and activities for the full.
complement of KCC staff.
20.       Once the training units are mobilized, they would engage in a
comprehensive program of needs assessment, program planning and
development, and implementation. Many training needs are already obvious,
based upon discussions with a wide range of officials and officers in local
operating agencies. For example, financial management and general
management skills (from the Town Clerk down to the first line supervisor)
have been clearly identified as pressing needs.
21.       Teams of trainers assembled from those who attended the TOT and
key persons from operating units, would be given tasks, resources and the
responsibility to develop training programs and operational manuals. Where
necessary, these teams would be given expatriate assistance, either through
linking arrangements with like-minded institutions or through direct
contracting with individuals or organizations possessing the essential
knowledge, skills and experience.   Top priority would be given to NLG's
need to develop an accounting manual (code) for local authorities and an
inspection handbook for local government inspectors. (Similar efforts have
already been undertaken in neighboring countries, such as Kenya, and need
not be developed from ground zero for Uganda).
22.       The program implementation phase would be ongoing and includes



AM=U 7
Page 7 of 8
(a) onsite long term advisors for varying periods of time
(supplied, in large measure, through the linkage
arrangements);
(b)  relevant attachments, study tours and short courses abroad
for a few key officers (based on specific needs and the
absence of learning opportunities within Uganda or the
immediate region);
(c)  in-house workshops, job coaching and on-the-job-training,
particularly in KCC and the larger municipalities; a full
calendar of training events scheduled in Kampala and each
region to meet priority local government training needs;
and an on-going process of managing these events, through
MLG, from needs identification to the evaluation of job
performance, based on the training investment.
D. Program Costs and Financing
23.       The total cost of the technical assistance and training program
component is estimated at US$4.3 million.
The TA and training component has eight main thrustss
(a)  to provide long term technical advisors to KCC and MLG
(through linking arrangements with other like-minded
organizations). US$2.892 million.
(b)  to provide funding for short term out-of-country
attachments to operating agencies, study tours and
specialized workshops, seminars and conferences (learning
opportunities not available in Uganda) US$0.260 million.
(c)  to provide support to establish a Local Government Resource
Center on the IPA campus with capacity to serve lcal
government training needs nationally - (U5$0.375 million).
(d)  to provide funding to equip a training unit and facility
within KCC (US$0.06 million).
(e)  to provide funding to equip and support a local government
training management unit within MLG (US$0.06 million).
(f)  to train a cadre of trainers to serve KCCIMLG/and local
governments (US$0.136 million).
(g) to provide funds to support in-country training programs
for local government officials and personnel (US$0.25
million).



AM=3 7
Page 8 of a
(h) to provide funding for vehicles to mobilize decentralized
training and to support on an experimental basis a limited
number of local authorities in their revenue mobilization
efforts (US$ 0.214 million).
E. Implementation
24.      )MLG and KCC would be the two *client" institutions under the
institutional development (ID) component of the Project. With the
exception of funds required to set up and run the LGRC at IPA, all funds
for ID activities would be administered by KCC and MLG. Training services
to be supplied to the project by LGRC IPA would be governed by contracts
between the Center and the client bodies.
24.       Consultant services will be supplied through a linking or
twinning arrangement to be entered into between i) RCC and another local
authority and ii) MLG and another training institution. Both arrangements
may include the services of individual advisors or consultants as the need
may arise. The selection of linking lnsitutions (US$ million) will done in
accordance with Bank 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants* of August
1981. Civil works required for the renovation of facilities for RCC, MLG
and IPA (US$0.23 million) will be procured through local competive bidding.
Procurement of vehicles would (US$0.24 million) would be by ICB.
Procurement of equipment and training aids would be by international
shopping by means of obtaining at least three quotations from at suppliers
in at least two eligible countries.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Pop 1 ot f
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Technlcal Asistonce A Training Cost Estimate
_    Local  Foreign  Total
A. Long-term Advisors (KCC)                             ---41830000c-------
Sub-total A                                    1T       24'   2,1U2   2,486
S. Long-term advisors (ML4/I/A)
Sub-tota I                                      72       48     410      468
C. Out-of-Country Attachmenta/Traini ng Courses/
Study Tours
KCC staff                                    46       16      162     180
ULG/IPA staff                                20       8       72       s0
Sub-totol C                                     06       26     284      260
D. Establish Local Governmnt Resource Canter at IPA
Renovation of Annex                                   80      120     16D
Office/classroom turniture                            10      60       70
raining/oftIce equipment                             C       as       40
Desktop publishing tacility                            1       19      20
Additlonal printing equlpont                           2      48       sO
Training/printing materials/literature                 0      26       25
Sub-total 0                                             46      807      856
E. Renovation of KCC/MLG training room
KCC facility/equip                                    10      60       60
MLW facility/equip                                    10      SO       60
Sub-total E                                             20       100     120
F. Training ot Trainers program
Trainers (2)                                  6        9       81      90
Matorials                                             0       20       20
Per diem for participante                    48       24       0       24
Sub-total F                                             88      101      134
0. In-Country Training Program
Roo/boara/materials                         600      250       0      260
Sub-total a                                            260        0      260
H. Support Staff aIlowane.*
KCC                                                   20       0       20
MA                                                    20       0       20
IPS                                                  20        0       20
Sub-total H                                             60        0       60
r. Vehicles
KCC:1 van                                             0      26       26
LA: 1 van                                            0       25       25
MLAs 2 4WD                                            0      40       40
IPA:L 2 vans                                         0       SO       s0
IPA: 1 4W0                                           0       20       20
LA revenue off icers:
60 motor cycles a 61200                            0      60       60
200 bicycles 0 *lO                                 0      20       20
Sub-total I                                              0      240      240
TVTAL                                                      72?   8,684   4,811
_                  - 



AM=  7
Page 1 of 2
Terms of Reference
Llaking arrmgemEnt between MLGIIPAJICC
and External Organization with Demonstrated
Competencies In all Aspects of Training and
Institutional Development
MLG wishes to enter into a linking arrangement with an external
organization specializing in training and institution development for the
purposes of helpings
(a)   establish a training management unit within  MLG;
(b)   develop a training unit and in-service training program
within KCC; and
(c) create a local government resource centre at IPA to provide
all Uganda local governments with a full complement of
training related services.
(d)   design and conduct an initial training of trainers program
for participating agencies.
b4ectives   The objective of this linking activity is to develop an in-
country capacity to plan, manage and implement a wider range of contemporary
training and training related services to support Uganda local governments.
Scope of Work:
The supplying training organization would provide the following
serv.-cess
(a) long term technical specialisticonsultants in training and
organization development for a period of time not to exceed
that listed after each specialist.
Mi)         municipal managementIOD advisor for RCC (12mm).
(ii)        training and institutional development
specialist for IPA (24 mm).
(b)   make arrangements for and manage, a variety of out-of-
country learning experiences including short-term
attachments to training organizations or units specialized
workshops and seminars, and study %ours.



AMNEX 7
ppendIx 2
Page 2 of 2
(c)   advise MLG on the development of a training management unit
within the Ministry to provide overall leadership to local
government capacity building throagh training and associated
services.
(d)   plan and conduct a training of trainers workshop, in-
country, for approximately 24 trainees in two modules
totally 8 weeks of classroom and field work.
(s)   work through the Office of the Town Clerk, to help establish
a training unit and in-service, on-the-job program for =CC.
(f)   provide advise and consultation on the development of a full
service local government resource centre to be located at
IPA.
Qualifications:   The supplying training institution will demonstrate a depth
and range of knowledge, skills and experience in such areas as local
government training, organization development, institution building, action
research, process consultation and Information and data management and
dissemination.
Duration of Linking Arranaement: Although the longest period of time alloted
to any one specialist under the linking arrangement is 24 months, it is
expected the relationship will extend over a longer period of time, given
satisfactory service and availability of resources.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
Terms of Reference
Linkina ArranRements Between KCC and One Or
Two External Local Authorities
The Kampala City Council wishes to enter into a linking
arrangement with one or two external local authorities for the puirpose of
improving its overall management, financial and operational performance on
a number of specified urban services. The linking services would include
the placement of highly qualified technical specialists in specific areas
of KCC concern and the attachment of administrative, tecbnical and
professional personnel from KCC who are in need of additional knowledge,
skill development or direct on-line experience in program and service areas
associated with the First Urban Project.
In the event the linking local authority(s) cannot supply any
sub-component of the technical assistance called for under the linking
arrangement, the supplier is expected to arrange for these services
directly with a third party.
Objectives The objective of this 'inking activity is to improve
KCC's overall performance to the standards of a successful local authority,
both through the example of the supplier's own operation and through direct
technical assistance in developing operating systems and procedures,
improving staff competeicies and assisting in the overall implementation of
various project components.
Scope of Work: The supplying local authority, either through
the attachment of its own administrative, professional and technical staff,
or through contracts with third parties, would p.ovide KCC with the
following services:
(a) long-term technical specialisticonsultants in the following
areas of expertise for a period not to exceed that is listed
after each specialist.
(i)    personnel systems specialist (12 mm);
(ii)   accounting development and training specialist (24
mm);
(iii)  revenue accounting development and training
specialist (12 mm);
(iv)   valuation and rating specialist (2) (total of 60
mm);
(v)    vehicle/equipment maintenance specialist (12 mm));
(vi)   market management specialist (12 mm);



ANIEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
(vii) solid waste specialist (12 mm);
(viii) roads maintenance specialist (12 mm);
(ix)   housing specialist (12 mm).
(b) Arrange for and facilitate the attachment of KCC staff
members either in the supplier organization or appropriate third party
institutions for short periods of time to enhance the participants'
understanding, skills and experience in targeted areas of need.
Qualifications: The supplying local authority will demonstrate
not only their unique qualifications in each of the above areas of
expertise but state unequivocably that they are in a position to second
qualified staff, or to contract with third parties where necessary, for the
periods of time called for in the terms of reference (it is expected that
both KCC and the supplier will utilize to the extent possible the documents
prepared by the World Bank to facilitate technical cooperation and training
through linking (twinning) arrangements.
Duration of Linking Arrangement
The linking arrangement, initially, is expected to cover a 4-
year period, with the expectation that some technical specialists will not
provide service for a continuous period of time but rather phase their
advisory services over a longer period with diminishing involvement as
capacity is developed vithin MCC.



AlNE 
Page 1 of 13
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Rey Technical Assiatance
1. Local Government Resource Center Coordinator
(to be located at IPA)
The Ministry of Local Government intends to establish on the
campus of the Institute of Public Administration (IPA) a local government
resource center. This center, to be operated through IPA, will create a new
thrust in local government training and technical service, concentrating cn
decentralized, short, focused training events, action research and process
consultancy interventions and the publication of training and operational
materials to be used by local officers on the job.
Obiectives   The objective of this activity is to provide alternative sources
of training and related services to local authorities and their personnel,
based on identified needs and modern concepts and strategies of development.
Scope of Work:    The local government resource center coordinator will be
responsible for the following tasks:
(a)   to provide day-to-day management leadership to the center,
including setting task objectives, planning the utilization
of center resources, coordinating the efforts of staff and
adjunct resource persons and communicating on a frequent
basis with other components of the Urban 1 project.
(b)   providing direct supervision to the subordinate staff
assigned to the Center.
(c)   preparing annual budgets and work pians.
(e)   assisting in the establishment of an on-going program of
short training events, problem centered consultancies and
publications to serve local governments throughout Uganda.
(f)   oversee the utilization and maintenance of the physical
plant and equipment under the Center's direct control.
(g)   carry out any other tasks or assignments necessary to assure
the successful initiation of an on-going program of training
and associated services to Uganda local governments.
Qualifications: The center coordinator would be a local resident, holding a
post graduate degree in an area of expertise associated with local government
finance or development and have several years experience in his or her field
of expertise and the training of local government officials. The person



Page 2 of i3
holding this position should have demonstrated skills in interpersonal
relations, managing complex projects, and oral hand written communications,
and a known commitment to improving the quality of local governments in
Uganda.
Duration of Assignment:   The initial assignment would be for a 24 months.
2. Training and Institutional Development Specialist
Local Government Resource Center - IPA
The Ministry of Local Government intends to establish on the
campus of the Institute of Public Administration (IPA) a local government
resource center. This center, to be operated through IPA, will create a new
thrust in local government training and technical service, concentrating on
decentralized, short, focused training events, action research and process
consultancy interventions and the publication of training and operational
materials to be used by local officers on the job.
Objective:   The objective of this activity is to provide alternative sources
of training and related services to local authorities and their personnel,
based on identified needs and modern concepts and strategies of development.
Scope of Works    The training and organization development specialist
appointed to assist in carrying out this objective will undertake the
following tasks:
(a)   provide overall technical assistance, guidance and support
to the training components of the project.
(b)   assist IPA and ML6 establish a program of services for local
governments that encompasses experiential training action
research, problem centered consultations and information
management.
(e)   work directly with MLG in setting up a training management
unit.
(f)   help IPA and MLG establish part-time secretariats for the
Uganda Association of Urban Authorities and the local
chapter of the African Association for Public Administration
and Management.
(g)   assist in creating a network of training resources through-
out Uganda in response to the managerial, financial,
technical and vocational training needs of local governments
and their employees.
(i)   assist in the development of a publications program to serve
local government training and technical assistance needs,



ANMEU 8
Page 3 of 13
including operational manuals, training modules, a periodic
newsletter highlighting local government developments and
occasional reports on major issues confronting local
governments.
(k)   work closely with IPA and other training institution staff
and faculty to design and produce practical training
responses to clearly identified training needs.
(1)   hold periodic short skill development sessions for area
training officers on such topics as action research,
organizational interventions and consulting practices.
Qualificationst   The specialist should have a graduate degree in Public
Administration, Human Resource Development or a related field; at least 10
years of relevant experience in training and organization development, with a
significant portion of that experience in less developed country settings;
and a commitment to contemporary approaches to human resource development.
Must have demonstrated capacity to engage in team task accomplishment and
possess excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
Duration of Assignment:   The assignment is for 24 months. The first 12 months
would be spent in continuous service to the project with the remaining months,
beyond that period, to be spent in intermittent consultancies based on the
needs of the project.
3.    Municipal Managemut and Organization
Development Advisor to the Office of the
tom Clerk, Kampala City Council
The Kampala City Council (KCC) intends to improve the overall
performance of the organization by carrying out a series of organization
diagnostic and development interventions from the Office of the Town Clerk, as
facilitated by an external specialist in municipal management systems and
crganization development strategies.
Obiectivess       The ob3ective of this activity is to improve the overall
performance of the KCC with emphasis on improving service and program
delivery, maximizing fin&ncial, human and physical resources within the
overall control of MCC; and acting as a responsible and responsive agent of
the local government process in Its inter actions with the citizens of
Kampala.
Scope of Works    The KCC would expect the Municipal Management and
Organization Development Specialist to carry out the following dutiess
(a)   provide support and consultation to the Office of the Town
Clerk in a wide range of issues and concerns impacting on
the overall performance of the organization.



ANMEX 8
Page 4 of .13
(b)   assist the Town Clerk and other key officials plan and carry
out a series of diagnostic investigations of managerial and
operational systems and practices within KCC;
(c)   conduct strategic planning workshops, team building
activities, problem solving sessions and other experiential
interventions designed to strengthen specific components or
working units within the organizations.
(d)   assist in the establishment of a training unit within KCC
through consultations and program development activities
with its members, such as conducting focused training needs
assessments, helping design training interventions and
carrying out on-the-job training and coaching activities.
Ce)   work with the technical advisors who have been brought into
KCC, under other components of this project, to help them be
more effective in their counterpart functions in terms of
transfer of knowledge and skills, interpersonal relations,
and the overall maturation process required to facilitate
these kind of external inputs to the work setting.
Cf)   help the Town Clerk and other key RCC senior officials carry
out a strategic planning process for the organization and
the city - one which is dynamic and responsive to changing
needs and environment.
Cg)   provide whatever assistance might be appropriate for the
establishment of the MLG Local Government Resource Center
under this same project, particularly as it interfaces with
KCC in helping to meet its training, research and consulting
needs.
(h)   work closely with the personnel systems specialist (who will
also be assigned to the Town Clerk's office) to help
establish a Human Resource Development Program for MCC to
assure that any proposed system is compatible with the
developmental needs of the total organization and its
mission.
Qualifications:   The specialist should have extensive experience in municipal
arrangement, organization development and training systems and organizations
and a graduate degree in Public Administration, Management, Human Resource
Development or a related discipline. Ideally, the individual would have
extensive experience in working with local governments in less developed
countries, or a demonstrated capacity to work in cross-cultural, complex
organizational settings.   He or she must have indepth demonstrated knowledge
and skills in management, team work, organization development, strategic
planning, experiential training and action research type interventions as well
as effective oral and written communication skills.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 13
Duration of the Assignment:    The assignment is for a total of 12 months but
would be phased over a two or three year period, starting with an intensive
initial intervention of up to 6 months. The staging of subsequent
interventions would be agree upon between the Town Clerk and the Specialist.
4.  Personnel System  Specialist to work with the
Office of the Town Clerk, Kampala City Council
The Kampala City Council intends to improve its personnel system
as a part of the Urban 1 project with funding from the World Bank. To carry
this task out, an expatriate local government personnel specialist will work
with the Office of the Town Clerk to provide professional assistance.
objectives   The objective of this activity is to install a personnel system,
with a human resource development bias, that can help KCC attract, retain,
motivate, compensate and develop a mature, dedicated cadre of individuals to
serve the needs of the organization and the citizens of the city.
Scope of Work:   The specialist will be expected to provide the following
services and/or undertake the following taskst
(a)   provide overall professional guidance and assistance to the
Town Clerk and his key officers in developing a personnel
system that is compatible with the needs and resources of
KCC.
(b)   review the present personnel system and assess its overall
strengths and weaknesses as an operating system designed to
manage and support the employment of individual officers and
employees by KCC.
(c)   assist the personnel staff and individual operating
departments of KCC conduct a manpower study to determine
present and future needs for each category of employees.
(d)   help carry out a position classification and job description
for each position and job function as currently established
within the KCC personnel system, and develop new areas for
those positions or jobs which are not yet a part of the
establishment but are needed to aid KCC in fulfilling its
mission.
(e)   assist, if appropriate within national policies and
procedures, a process by which compensation and perquisites
for each position and job is equated against all others in
the organization as well as measured against outside
competition. The purpose of such an exercise would be to
establish internal equity of compensation and perquisites



Page 6 of 13
based on relative jobiposition requirem nts and
responsibilities and to assume a level of competitiveness
within the local market place based on the financial
resources of =CC.
(f)   assist KCC staff in developing a human resource and career
development orientation and perspectives to personnel
administration.
(g)   assist the new Training Unit.  (to be established through
the support of the project) plan and carry out an ongoing
program of on-the-job and in-service training based upon the
current and emergent needs of the organization.
(h)   help establish a records systems that tracks each employee's
employment history and experience, including compensation,
sick leave, annual leave and others. This system should be
developed so it can be automated at some future date,
depending upon the capacity of =CC.
(i)   review current performance appraisal procedures to determine
if they are compatible with the needs of KCC and the ability
of various supervisors to utilize them effectively.
(j)   help the training department design workshops and consulting
sessions for supervisors and employees to explain changes
that have been made in the system.
Qualifications:   Senior local government personnel specialist with an
appropriate degree and specialized training and a minimum of 10 years
experience in managing a local government personnel system.
Ideally, the person would have less developed country experience
and a full knowledge and commitment to contemporary approaches to personnel
systems and human resource development. Must be able to work effectively as a
team member, have knowledge and skills in training and organization
development and effective oral and written communication skills.
Duration of Assignment:   The assignment is for a total of 12 months but would
be phase over a two year period. It would be initiated by an intensive 5-6
months assignment to carry out the necessary studies and research and to
develop basic components of the system. The staging of subsequent
interventions would be a matter of determining what is most beneficial to KCC
in regularizing those systems that heve been devised and put into operation.



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 13
5. Municipal Financial Management Specialist
Obiective: To work with the City Treasurer of KCC to strengthen financial
management of the City Council.
Scope of work: The specialist will be expected to undertake the following
tasks:
1.    Review the mechanized system of accounting procedures, make
recommendations as necessary and assist in implementing any
revisions. Specific areas to be addressed are:
(a)   Timetable of flow of information from source to data
processing.
(b)   The documentation and control of the flow of data.
(c)   The proof of data processed through control totals to prime
records.
id)   The documentation and control of work undertaken by the
machine room staff.
Ce)   The production of a monthly trial balance.
Cf)   The timely production of monthly ledger balances to enable
the comparison of actual income and expenditure to budget
forecasts.
2.    To advise and train the key staff involved in the mechanical
system of accounting.
3.    To improve the design of the forms and control books necessary for
the accurate processing of data.
4.    To advise and train staff involved in reconciliation of the bank
accounts to the cash books.
S.    Undertake a feasibility study on the computerization of the
Council's accounting and financial information systems.
6.    To prepare the year-end accounts of Kampala City Council in
conjunction with the Principal Assistant City Treasurer
(Accountancy).
Qualifications: Qualified professional account with CPA or equivalent with 10
years experience, including at least five years experience working overseas.
Duration of Assignment: Two years.



ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 13
6. Revenue Accounting Development and Training Officer
Obiective: To work with the City Treasurer of KCC to strengthen financial
management of the City Council.
Scope of work: The specialist will be expected to undertake the following
tasks:
1.    Review the current system of debtor accounting and the revenue
collection procedures (i.e. Rates, Grounds Rents, Sundry Debtors,
and Housing Rents), make recommendations as necessary for
development and improvement, and assist in implementing any
revisions. Specific areas to be addressed ares
(a)   The detail and summary of receipts analysis to encompass the
various categories of fees and charges levied by Kampala
City Council.
(b)   The recording of debtor income and receipts via the control
accounts in the financial ledger which is currently
maintained on a NCR accounting machine.
(c)   The procedures and methods for the raising and despatch of
accounts.
(d)   The assessment of Graduate Tax and the inspection of
Employers accounts.
(e)   The establishment of performance targets for cash and debtor
income and the monitoring of performance to targets.
(f)   The procedures for the recovery of unpaid debts.
(g)   The preparation of statistical data related to debits raised
and revenue collection.
2.    Assist the Municipal Financial Management Specialist in the
preparation of a feasibility study to computerize the preparation
of debtor accounts and the maintenance of debtor records.
3.    To advise and train they key staff. involved in the revenue
accounting systems.
Qualifications: A suitably qualified accountant with 5 years experience in
Public Sector income systems.
Duration of Assignments One year.



ANNEX 8
Page 9 of .13
7. Solid Waste Manageent Advisor
The Kampala City Council (MCC) intends to improve and extend the
refuse collection services provided by the Public Cleansing Section in the
City Engineer's Department, as a 1..rt of the Uganda Infrastructure Project,
and with funding from the World Bank. The Solid Waste Management component of
the project will provide for stuaies, works and equipment necessary for an
orderly implementation of the 1990191-1944195 Investment Plan, totalling
approximately US$ 5 million, as outlined in the World Bank Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).
objectives The objective of this activity is to improve the capability of the
Public Cleansing Section to plan, manage, operate and provide appropriate and
affordable refuse collection and disposal services to a large segment of the
population within Kampala, at acceptable service levels and environmental
standards.
Scope of Vorks The KCC now wishes to appoint suitably qualified and
experienced Consultant to undertake the following duties:
(a)   provide technical assistance, guidance and support to ICC during
the first year of implementation of the proposed investment
program;
(b)   Assist KCC in control, supervision, review and implementation of
the following studies carried out on separate consultancy
contracts for RCC:
Tender Documents and Contracts for the supply of collection
vehicles, containers and landfill operation equipment.
Tender Documents and Contracts for upgrading three disposal
sites.
Tariff Structure Study.
(c)   Assist KCC in preparation and supervision of rehabilitation of the
municipal Workshop, including specification of necessary tools and
equipment;
(d)   Assist RCC in preparing model contracts for contracting out repair
and services of vehicles and equipment;
(e)   Advice and assist KCC in improving and setting up a management
system, particularly with respect to repair and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment, in order to improve system performance and
vehicle utilization; separate budgeting and accounting system for
the refuse services; simplified procurement procedures;
information and recording system for planning, management,
supervision and monitoring of the cleansing department operations
and services;



ANNE 8
Page 10 of 13
(f)   Assist KCC in setting up and managing a SWM performance and
equipment utilization monitoring program;
tg)   Identify the needs for formal and informal training of the Public
Cleansing Section staff at all levels, prepare a training program
in coordination with KCC, with special emphasis on in-house and
on-the-job training, but not excluding participation in training
courses, seminars and workshops in Uganda and elsewhere. It is
suggested that the training program is set up in cooperation with
a local college or institute;
(h)   The SWM Adviser in cooperation with the management of the Public
Cleansing Section will provide the in-house and on-the-job
training; and
Mi)   Conduct a national workshop on solid waste management practices,
strategies and policies with special emphasize on experience and
conditions in Uganda, coordinated with Cleansing Sections in the
major cities in Uganda.
Reportin:t The SWM adviser will prepare a report containing the proposed
training program within three months of taking up the position. The report
shall be submitted to KCC for review and approval.
Quarterly progress reports containing system performance and equipment
utilization monitoring data.
A final report containing the SWM adviser's assessment and evaluation of the
training activities, with recommendations for further training needs.
Qualifications: Senior SWM expert with a degree in Sanitary or Civil
Engineer, with at least 10 years of practical experience from planning and
management of municipal refuse collection and disposal services, preferably
with experience from less developed countries, and with training and teaching
experience. Must have demonstrated capability in team work, personnel
supervision and management. Capability in oral and written presentations in
english is a definite requirement.
Duration of AssiRnment: The assignment is for a 12 months period, possibly
extendable with 6 months.



ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 13
8. Solid Wast. eangement
Consultancy Service for Preparation of Tariff Structure Study,
Willingness to Pay Survey and Public Awareness Campaign.
The Kampala City Council (KCC) intends to improve and extend the
refuse collection services provided by the Public Cleansing Section in the
City Engineer's Department, as a part of the Uganda Infrastructure Project.
and with funding from the World Bank. The Solid Waste Management component of
the project will provide for studies, works and equipment necessary for an
orderly implementation of the 1990/91-1994195 Investment Plan, totalling
approximately US$ 5 million, as outlined in the World Bank Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).
Objectives: The objectives of this activity ares
-     to develop a cost recovery scheme for collection and disposal of refuse
services in Kampala, which will increase the financial self-sufficiency
of the Public Cleansing Section;
-     to establish realistic and affordable rates for the various v,.'es of
waste generators and for different residential income areas based on a
willingness to pay survey;
_     to prepare a public information and awareness campaign to sensiti73 the
public of the proposed refuse collection services and associated service
fees, as well as the required community and public participation.
Scope of Work: In achieving these objectives the consultant will be required,
but not necessarily be limited, to carry out the following tasks:
Task 1: Identify all costs associated with the provision of solid waste
management and services for RCC and establish tariff levels on the basis of
marginal costs.
Task 2: Investigate the application of alternative tariff structures
including different tariffs for different waste producers and residential
income groups.
Task 3s Analyses the socio-economic environment and carry out a limited
willingness to pay survey to determine the affordability of services of
different waste producer groups and residential income groups.
Task 4: Establish the current levels of Government subsidies to the sector;
Task 5: Develop and recommend practical tariff strategies including an
implementation strategy;
Task 6s Formulate tariff collection procedures and enforcement by one of the
following methods:



ANNEX 8
page 12 of 13
-     linking charges to other mmnicipal services such as water or
electricity;
-     linking charges to property taxes;
-     cross charging other municipal services such as sweeping and parks.,
Task 7: Investigate the possibilities of mobilizing the Resistance Conmittees
in promoting, motivating the communities to participate in the refuse
collection system, in implementation of a tariff structure, and in collection
and enforcement of service fees.
Task 8 Investigate the various media that may be used for a public
awareness campaign, and in cooperation with MCC and the Resistance Committees
design an appropriate campaign to sensitize the public to the needs and
requirements of the proposed refuse collection services.
Qualifications:  The Consultant should have a degree in economics or business
administration, and at least 10 years of experience from the public utility
sector. with special emphasize on financial analyses and tariff structure
design. Demonstrated experience form other less developed countries will be
required.
Timin : The project will require elapsed time of approximately two months.



ANNEX 8
Page 13 of j
9. Propertv valuation SDeciallts
Objectives* The IDA funded First Urban Project for Uganda includes a rating and valuation
component designed to increase locally generated revenue for Kampala City Council and
other Local Governments. Technical assistance is to be provided from two valuers who will
either be recruited directly on the international market or through a twinning arrangement
with a suitable public sector organization or as part of a package from a contracting
firm.
Scope of Work: The specialists will be expected to undertake the following taskst
To set up a new District Valuation office for XCC;
2.    To initiate improved training methods;
3.    Identify all rateable properties;
4.    Carry out a revaluation of KCC;
5.   Undertake training of valuation assistants.
Qualifications
The following specialists are required:
a)    District Valuation Officer for Kampala carrying out all the valuation work
required for local and central government within that area; and
b)    Training Officer to be In charge of valuation training
All candidates should be qualified as Chartered Surveyors or equivalent with some
experience in the public sector dealing with rating. Candidates for post 'a' will
have about 10 years' post qualification experience and proven management ability.
Candidates for post 'b' will have about 7 years' post qualification experience and
an interest in education and training.
While experience abroad is not essential an ability to adapt will be important.
Term: A total of 60 person-months between the two specialists.



AMU 9
Page I of S
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Project Preparatory Activity
Small Towns Water and Sanitation Proiect
A. Background
1.      The Water Development Department (WDD), which is part of the Ministry
of Water and Mineral Development, is responsible for rural water supply and
water resources development, and for urban water supply in the towns not at
present operated by NWSC. The 'Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Development
Strategy and Action Plan' (March 1989) calls for VDD to promote community
involvement in village and small towns water supply including acceptance of
financial responsibilities. Financial constraints severely restrict 1DD in
the execution of its responsibilities. The Government is reviewing functions
and responsibilities in order to make WDD more effective, and to make sector
operations more financially self-sustainable.
2.      The sector organization will have to be adopted to the evolving
demands with particular emphasis on:
-    integrated approach in water supply, sanitation, and health
education;
-    promotion of community participation and low-cost technologies;
-    introduction of financial self-sustainability; and
-    adoption of demand driven investment planning.
The aim is to structure the sector organization for maximum involvement of the
users and of other agencies in the operation and maintenance of schemes and to
gradually transfer WDD into a controlling, managing, consultative and service
organization.
3.      In order to prepare WDD and the sector to manage further larger scale
investments in the rural areas and small towns and to plan for and facilitate
a restructuring process as mentioned above, it is essential that WDD be
supported at central level. The aim of the support is to render technical
assistance in the present day-to-day operations of WDD in the form of: (a)
advisory support and manpower strengthening within key functions, (b)
provision of Immediately needed office equipment/facilities and
transportation, and (c) consultancy studies to facilitate investment planning
and sector reorganization according to the recommendations. It is expected
that various donors -- notably DANIDA and the World Bank -- will assist in
securing funds for this technical assistance program. In a recently drafted



ANE  9
Page 2 of 5
organization study for WDD a total of four urgently required technical
assistance personnel were identified together with a series of consultancy
assignments.
4.      The communities for which WDD has responsibility can be categorized
as follows:
-    scattered rural settlements and villages (less than approx. 500
population);
-    rural growth centers (up to approx. 5,000 population); and
-    smaller towns/urban centers (greater than 5,000 population - except
the seven major city/municipalities).
During the 19809 WDD embarked upon a number of implementation programs (which
recently have accelerated in size and pace), covering in particular the first
two population categories, whereas the last category lately has been subject
to rather sporadic and small-scale investment efforts, although there is a
strong need for further activities. It is within this context that the Bank is
assisting GOU with the preparation of a project for FY93 directed towards
rehabilitation/expansion and new construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities in small towns and improvements in their operation.
5.      Presently there are 59 urban authorities -- including the seven major
towns -- under local government statutory jurisdiction, which means that a
total of 52 small towns/urban centers fall under WDD's water sector
responsibility. The 52 centers combine a population of approximately 800,000
expected to increase to some 1.0 million in year 2000. Of these centers, 13
have existing water supply and sewage disposal systems, 10 water supply
systems only, and 29 centers are awaiting facilities. It should be stressed
that the existing systems are in an extremely poor state of repair with a
coverage as low as 102-20? of the affected urban population. In the past few
years, through financial assistance by AfDB, RfW and France, a total of some
10 of these towns' water schemes have been subject to or have plans for some
form of rehabilitation and/or expansion. The proposed credit for a "Small
Towns Water and Sanitation Project" is intended to cover the water supply and
sanitation needs of about 30 small towns and about 20 rural growth centers,
technical assistance to WDD, studies on institutional and financial issues,
training, etc.
B. Objectives
3.      The First Urban Project would provide funds for activies in
preparation of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project, including support
to the technical assistance program for WDD as outlined in para. 3 above.
This component is intended as a continuation of activities to be funded
through a proposed Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the Small Towns
Water and Sanitation Project.



AM= 9
Page 3 of 5
C. Description
7. ?-   The project preparatory activities to be financed under the First
Urban Project would include the following:
(a) Technical Assistance to WDD
A Technical Adviser for water supply and sanitation would be assigned
to the Chief of the Design, Planning and Documentation Division of
WDD, who would be his counterpart.   He should be experienced with:
planning, design, and implementation of water and sanitation
technologies -- also low-cost options: community involvement in cost
recovery, operation and maiutenance; and sound procedures for the
procurement of civil works and equipment, and for the engagement of
consultants. His main responsibility will be to assist and advise
WDD on the preparation and implementation of the Small Towns Water
and Sanitation Project, including preparation and evaluation of
bidding documents and consulting contracts, supervision of
consultants, liaison with the Bank, preparation and submission of
disbursement claims, etc.
(b) Consultancy SerN_:49 for the following tasks:
(i) Preparation for the implementation of the Small Towns Water and
Sanitation Projects (i) breaking down the civil works into sub-
components (that is, sets of small towns and rural growth
centers) according to financing source and timing of
Implementation, and selection of high priority sub-components
for implementation in the first phase of the Project, (ii)
detailed engineering designs, tender documents, and tender
evaluation, (iii) preparation of terms of reference, draft
contracts, and tender evaluation of proposals for project
components other than civil works, and (iv) assistance to WDD in
meeting the conditions of effectiveness of the Small Towns Water
and Sanitation Project.
(ii) Detailed recommendations for organizational restructuring of WDD
and for insitutional and financial arrangements for operation
and maintenance of the water and sanitation facilities to be
constructred under the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project.
These recommendations should be based on the proposals contained
in the report *Organization and Management Study of WDD'
(October 1989) as modified and expanded by the results of the
willingness-to-pay and financial self-sustainability studies
which will be carried out as part of the PPF for the Small Towns
Water and Sanitation Project. The study would outline the
organizational structures in detail, admikistrative and



£3131 9
Page 4 of 5
accounting procedures, time schedule for staff requirements, and
training needs.
D. Cost estimate
8.     The estimated base cost for the preparatory activities outlined in
para. 7 is US$850,000, as detailed in the following table. It would be wholly
financed by IDA. Out of this amount, US$120,000 in foreign exchange is
included in an ongoing PPF for the First Urban Project.
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
(US$ '000)
Local   Foreign   Total
(a)    Technical Assistance
- Technical Adviser for 18 MM
(salary, benefits, accommodation
and travel)                           20       250       270
(b)    Consulting Services
- Staffing, accommodation and
subsistence for preparation of
engineering designs and tender
documents for an initial group
of towns                             45        340       385
- Staffing, accommodation and
subsistence for sector structure
and reorganization study of VDD      15         75        90
- Two vehicles and running costs       15         45        60
- Office equipment (PC, typewriter,
copy machine, etc.)                  -          20        20
- Allowances to local staff            25         -         25
_________________________
Subtotal for Consulting Services      100        480       580
TOTAL (base cost)                             120        730       850



AMX 9
Page 5 of S
B. Implementation
9.      The component described in Para. 7 above would be implemented by VDD.
PCU would advise VDD on project implementation procedures, particularly with
the preparaiton of agreements, the hiring of consultants, and procurement in
accordance with Bank guidelines. VDD would provide office space, to be
refurbished under a proposed PPF for the Small Towns Water and Sanitation
Project, and the required local support staff to the adviser and the
consultants.
10.     The post of the Adviser, under the PPF for the First Urban Project,
would be funded for about 18 months out of which about five months have
already been used for a temporary employment of a water engineer, which would
have ended on October 31, 1990. The funding for the remaining period of about
13 months for a continuation (under a separate contract) would be an identical
post provided under a proposed PPF for the Small Towns Water and Sanitation
Project. A vehicle would be provided for the official use by the Adviser,
procured under the PPF of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project. Some
basic office equipment for the Adviser may be procured under the existing PPF
of the First Urban Project.
11.     The consultancy services would be performed by a qualified consultant
selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The c7nsultant is to work
closely with the local staff assigned to the Project Implementation Unit in
VDD and with the Adviser.



ANX 10
Pog 1 of 2
UGWA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Details of Procurement Methods 1/
Procurement Ite                        ICe          LCB          IS        Otber 2/  Co-finance 4/ Total
(US  milaion)----
Civil Works
Urban markets                           6.11                                                        6.11
(4.60)                                                      (4.60)
Sanitary landfill                       0.64                                                        0.64
(0.50)                                                      (0.60)
Stre.t/drain  rehb                     7.17                                                        7.17
Kaweln  lend servi.inglschool           4.06                                                        4.08
(8.15)                                                      (8.15)
Workshop/depot robab                                0.29                                            0.29
(0.23)                                          (0.28)
WAL offIce rohnb                                    0.88                                            0.83
(O 26)                                          (0.26)
KCC office rebab                                    C 05                                            0.05
(.04)                                           (0.04)
Major Supply Contract0
Street maintenance mterials                                     0.28                                0.28
(0.26)                              (0.28)
Keyelo building  art als                                        0.8                                0.U8
(0988)                              (0.36)
Vehicles, Equipmsnt, Toole
Urban markets                           0.22                                                        0.22
(0.22)                                                      (0.22)
Solid waste smnament                    .680                                                        5.60
(6.60)                                                      (5.80)
Streets/dralns rehab                    0.51                                                        0.51
(0.51)                                                     (0.11)
Kawbnlr Ind servicing                   0.06                                                        0.06
(0.06)                                                      (0.06)
KCC mnagement program                   0.70                    0.10                                0.80
(0.70)                  (0.10)                              (0.60)
Urban planning prorm                    0.06                    0.09                                0.17
(0.06)                  (0.08)                              (0.15)
MLO                                     0.48                   0.04                                 0.47
(0.48)                 (0.04)                              (0.47)
Consultant Services, TA, Training
KCC TA and training                                                                        8.66    3.56
Physical Planning (IDA-KCC)                                                   0.93                  0.98
(0.98)                (0.98)
Physical Planning (GTZ-PPD) 4/                                                             0.60     0.60
MLO TA and training                                                                        1.10     1.10
30D project preparation                                                      0.98                   0.93
(0.98)                (0.98)
PPF                                                                           1.60                  1.50
(1.60)                (1 60)
Supervision of mrket rehabilitation                                          0.81                   0.81
(0.81)               (0.81)
Kawels eupervision/surey                                                     0.80                   0.60
(0.60)               (0.60)
Englnesring of solid waste componet                                           0.18                  0.18
(0. 18)              (0.16)
Prearation of K_pln mapping (WLA) S/                                          1.38                  1.88
(1.83)               (1.88)
Land compensation 8/                                                            0.08                  0.08
25.60       0.67        0.99          5.67          5.26   88.60
(21.60)     (0.52)      (0.9)        (5.79)               (28.70)
1/ Figurs In brackets are the respetiv amounts financed by IDA.
2/ Direct purchae, biring of consultants, and lond comnsotion.
3/ Land at Kamla for site* end srvicoe  cem
4/ Nordic Devlopment Fud and GTZ.
5/ Coet  of Ka_la mpping allocated to WIA.



UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Schedule of Major Contracts
Code No Deecription of Contract                              Volue  Procurement  Implo   Refer
USe 000    Method   Agency   Annex
CIVIL WORKS
Cwo1    Rehabi I Itation of Urban Marktet                      8,240   ICB/PreQ    KCC          1
Cu02    K(nale On-aite/Off-atte Intrastructure Service.        2,968   ICB/Preq    KCC          6
Cwos    Periodic Street Maintenance 1961                       2,200    iCe        KCC          a
CW04    Periodic Street Mantenonane 1992                       2,400    iCe        KCC          a
CWO6    Periodic Street Maintenance 1961                       2,510    ICe        KCC          3
CIOS    Kawalla Electricity Supply                              6M6     ICe        UEB          6
CWoT    Upgrade Sanitary Landfill Site.                         640    rCe         KCC          2
CWos    K awala Primary School                                   571    ICB        KCC          5
CW9    ML Offico RebabilItation (Ici IIPA Annex)                 U80    LCB        MLA          7
CeWo    Rebabi I tati on of KCC Workahop/depote                  290    LCB        KCC        2/8
C001    Kaw"l BulIding Materials                                 381    LCB        KCC          s
am02    Stret Matitenanc: Materia la 168                        100      IS       KCC          8
aDm     Street Maintenance  Mateatolao 1992                       95      IS       KCC          8
CD04    Street Maintenance  Material. 1991                       a6     IS        KCC          8
VEHICLES, EwYIPMENT, TOOLS
E101    Retu   Coliection Vehicle                              2,800    ICB        KCC          2
EQ02    Landf il equipmont                                      6SO     SCB        KCC          2
1Q08    Retuee contalnero                                      2,700    LCB        KCC          2
EQ04    KCC Vehicle. (mcl motorcycles, bicycle.)                700    lCB         KCC    1/4/6/7
EQOS    KCC Road Maintenance Equipment                          J10    ICB         KCC          a
EC06    MA Vehiclee/Equlipmnt (mncl VA)                         480    ICB         MLA          7
NOTES:
All value. Incluslve of contingecte
All contract  In *xcess of *300,000 rquire prior IDA reiew.
0a
IoN



ANNEX It
Page 1 of I
UGANDA
FiRST talm PROECT
Estimated Disbureemnt Schedule
Cumulative
disburse X
IDA                               Amount      Cumulativ      X of   -
fY            Poriod Ending       Dloburse  Disbursed         loan   AF2 Urban
amount  Sector
-(US    l II Ilon)--              Profl l-
91            Jun ao, 1991 1/             1.0         1.8          0             0
92            De 81, 191                  0.9         2.7          9             6
Jun 80, 1992                2.0        4.7          10            10
98            Qc 81, 1892                 2.1         6.6         24            14
Jun 80, 1998                2.7        9.5          88           22
04            Doc81, 198                  8.2        12.7         44            84
Jun 80, 1994                8.6       16.2          so           42
9C            Doc81, 1994                8.5        19.7         69            s0
Jun 80, 1995                8.0       22.7          79           62
96            Dec 81, 1995                2.8        25.0          87           74
Jun aa, 1996                2.0       27.0          04           a6
07            Dec 81, 1996                0.7        27.7          97           92
Jun 80, 1997                0.5       28.2          99           SO
go            Dec 81, 1997                0.5        23.7         100          100
Loan closing date: June 80, 1990
I/ Includes PPF rfinancing of US81.C millIon



POJECT ZNPLfTfATION $CHEU
1900      I 1191    1   1992                        194        I         I
mriptieIozye                                       Y1      O      I          YRS     I YR4             Y3 
KCC DWRASIWCTURE R SIUTATN                        I N
UP~ai~Urban Markeft.                               
=161"                                           a      xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xx
11 ~L .                       .                                          I            I             IXXXXX
- NMlul                                                           XXMXXXXX XXXX
worksbop rbbilltion                             xxxxx                                J
- 1a11l perao                            I      I on
- procrI a         l eqpment                     xxxxxxx      xx                                     l                      '
-pRood.    eolblitoot              I_S xxx                                   xxx      xxxxxxx 
Rol ft11bt                                 I to                                                      Fxx 
- periodic mintenan                                       xxx xxxxxxxxxxxxjXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
- procure eqipmet                                xxxxxxx E
- routine meinto c                              a           xx_ xxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X XXXXXXXXX
Offlee ,e  bibI totion                                                          oE[                                                        9
- KCC training room                              xx                       I                                                 oI
- AU training rooe                               xxx
U  IPA     rc      e                                                I                                                                  1 I
KCC  _  ts o                            xxxIx xxx           x                                      I            I 1
urban d_ 1;p.wnt planning                      xxxxxxxxxxxxixxxxxxxxxxxx
Kaw 4t  le sits WAd so rlowI!
- planing a denGl                       xxxxxx xxxxxxx                                            I
- Install n frastructure                              xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx
- allocaet  plote                                                              xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxIxxxxxxxxxxx
- oIt-help hoom coen t0   1  tln                                                  xxx xxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxx
- deelop oconenity facilities   I          *               1                   xxxxxx xxxxx      Ixx
-z   Ir                                                                                               I      
Ministry of L.c.l Governm nt
- linking arrangement                              xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xx
-et up LOCR at VA                                xxxxxx                   II
- trtin LG workers                                  xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx->j
K _  1* City Counetl I                                                         
Ilnking arrangement              1              xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxgxx           I            I
I- operti ml assistance            I            I xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx      xxx       xxxx
- operational training                          I xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx      xxx    xxxx
I                    I            I            I            IeI                       IoI                                 s



Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Prolect Supervision Plan
1.   Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs of
about six staff weeks per year for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
2.   Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress reports are to be submitted as followas
(i)   at the end of march, June, September, and december of each
year;
(ii) by the Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU) which will
assemble contributions from MCC, NLG, IPA, and MOHUD as
required;
(iii) with contents and format to be agreed with IDA.
(b)  Project monitoring and co-ordination will be the responsibility
of PCU; review meetings with the participation of the various
project agencies will be held normally in April and October of
each year. The meetings will be chaired by PCU.
(c)  PCU will be responsible for co-ordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions and for providing information required by
missions;
(d)  Mission briefings on arrival and wrap-up meetings prior to
departure will normally be chaired by the Project Co-ordinator
with participation of the project agencies.



AM=13
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
________________________________________________________________.__________
Approx        Activity                      Skills              Staff
Dates                                            Required
Input
5-6/91        Supervision mission           TM, ME, PA               6.0
(Project launch workshop)
6-7/91        Review twinning               TM, ID                   2.0
agreements
8-9/91        Review KCC workshop plans,    TM, HE                   2.0
SWM equip, material, tool
bid docs
10/91         Supervision mission           TM, ME                   4.0
(review annual KCC
allocation, road
maintenance plans)
1992          Supervision missions (2)      TM, ID, ME, FA           6.0
(review KCC, MLG, IPA
progress, incl KCC annual
plan review)
1993          Supervision missions (2)      TM, ID, ME, FA          12.0
(review RCC, MLG, IPA
progress, incl KCC annual
plan review
1993          Mid-tern review               (covered by resources in 1993
Supervision Missions)
1994          Supervision missions (2)      TM, ID, ME, FA           8.0
(review XCC, MLG, IPA
progress, incl RCC annual
plan review)
1995          Supervision mission           TM, ID, ME, FA           8.0
(review ICC, MLG, IPA
progress, incl RCC annual
plan review)
1996          Supervision mission           TM, ME, ID, PA           8.0
(review KCC, MLG, IPA
progress, incl XCC annual
plan review)
1997          Supervision missions (2)      TM, ID, ME, FA           8.0
(including one to prepare
PCR)
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



-   -  muss sinin~ ~         ~~~ is. uswui41N CM                                       C       IM     4.1    Cl    4W       411
':: - a t; 1SUM                                                        1 u           14 13U
a  a  in  m     m      JU                          in~U  1  59    on
4                                                                                                in
JIM! _ 1                    351     U                  2.1  tg j Is? Ot   t.   4.15 6 1 . us 2 .1     4,w s.e  4.36   4.M   4.313
I   0115 13 3 In A11 1311111? a
*      I      31   1 ,4I5    2   3    134   .1113  1.111  1.1    1.511   I SSI        SIN   5.11I  5.541
_§§sups tnn es
llIN  l51=-          I         U6            fill (m    l   fix    ON) t.     U.  . n la         5    S.I   S,S    S SX       inS  5.5                 a
bi                               0              I   I I               0   0   3             0   M   IN  tu  to  14   a                                  F
IOI 6           m               n      2It    11    1       2(2l     2.411 ( ,it  2.1t4  2It.    3    1.  1   3.31 5.3    3S,       3.3I 1
,           P  I         fS1    tS     Ul I2   1       n (51    3  I 2.15   2.42    2.56   2.-   2.411  t.US   2.41S   t.41   1.455;  
mmmiml 0 II6M11 43    13                                           12 11              I n i nj   1      0%      1      5      1
lZm o   z)      tS    121      1    (111)  23   1, 1   I.m    1.41         1.5l.      1,4a     . S    ,I     . 413M
_ WAN          .11 M         121 M lull   461  (gm)   (361.2            24 low    1 S6 I 1            43 S 51   (tJSI
uIWE                             0      *       *      *       6      *      *      *      *      54     u 1     13 it        in IU       A2 
WI      15   (1*1   (243)  443)   (3 1)   53   1,221    242    43       31      *      us     Is'   1223)t
UU       I                     (6II) It3   f134 1146lU1")   3631.21                      242mtUS t }
_  mISII                         eU   6        t       01   *"        9       W     *"     *       e,   *,  I,           *S     ,F  t.t



1:':::::    ,               : : : :
5Y3    a   ism                               3        224       313        3       25     3,266    3.313    4,141    5.539l   6.186    6.354    9.116   II11641  24.61
n sm
SI~~~~~~~~~61                             t4                IIS   11#   I1    93.t                  1 t.tl  .1   4.§tS  6.36   *.    *ti2"S
ElIHut  S,fl   6,444    6.154 ~~~~~   ~~"~'                    8.568   (I1:13    I:,j      Tc:     Tjf         13.2      4414? 36   '4:1   'i;:m
10     IX8113am18 36,412    36.56    361843    ,143   U.14    13.21S   15,813   18,358   2I43    21.4                                  IS     14,164   24,1131   25.431 .6
g         9 22                3                          32        6 6                                  284  5 4  352       I        ON
f34)    434)        34)l    (34)    lam)    (34l    (34 (m)34)    I                I (           3)    I434)
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ....  . ..........  . ...... ........... .... ....... .... ...... .... . ............... ............................ ....
10*1 6611811 ItU            U      U2    9  S3,113   (3,411)  ( 3.2223  42.381  (2,622   (2,13            (1.58       (85        36    3.1       2.135    3.23       4.36 1.1
U   no  mm                            13.412    14.2161  34.114   13,365   14,1116  15,8411  18.353   WM     22,332  1223116  22,266   21.823   21.46   21.18   13611
NOW}    42"} t      2      1.6       156    2.256.2,31            2.33t    2,314                                    431      43231     2  2    6i 
,,W                                   ..._,,, ....  ,   . ...., ,. _.............................................-   .............
&   Sl"!"                        *        O               1.5      t,        2-2~~~*  38 55  tu34  hi       431 t*  2.j3t    2.331    2,331    2,331t   2.33?
161* 1 NlN    U6313                                                   9    1*1       3,615    2.311    2.44       2.4      2,38      2,55t    2.455    3,35       2,253    1.2t8
Wm681 Am35                            39,4 1 4,336   14,436   14,081  35,185 11,8.8   .21,5-4  26.13   289.69   3.541   31,115   32,11   33,611   341,43    31.83
UUI  -  sW  : .ss: ......  ,, ... , , .....................---- -----..----- ------ ----.. .....
''33S"*
I= a                                                                    a--                    -- -  - 2---28  6 -       5 I' -  IN 18    I"' -     1        ItS       (It      118
tW  uim uu*iUnu                           21         41      243        23        4       IU        3        I4        36       It6       II I               ItS 11              m
s- -13341313
on  461331                                                     II *         *           1,66    4.IM   18,63    1.53            ,3      8,l$    1.828 1t,43    T,23s    3.9?
.... ........... .  ..... ... ..,,............... , ,                                                ,......,, ,.. .,....................._. ..._. . ..... ......
10Nu 18 1,W l   1S                        21         41      241        21    1.64    1.116    4.512    1.643    3.151   $6.281            8.11    8.6     1.113    1,13    4.135
,15   ...i.                                      ....... .... .... .......... ................ .... .... ......................
Am     m  , -  !Uti                                        MINt .4-  4.   : 4.   1 s!XT    i.12    1.JU       I.      01.0       M2t     .518    U4.131   2.         VA 2   12  5161
:::::::::::;:::
9    a        a~~~1   1 3     ,1.2     2,33?    2.33   1 2."'                1  3  "'4 2.33?  "  "        . 1i 
P,"          1,412               3.8U,41   18.14}  36,31 21 33.     t2 13.45? I        j  12 lb    13..   1i. s  IL.jJ   i J   3 ,    22 8
(23)    ,,*d                33,n     3 3 J,tUI          3! f ',3'  1tU      : lI H   1:11       ,t 3t III Iif   1f         IN        ,tU
3.71  3 .13    2,113    J.113    3.113    3.113    3,113    3.113    3.113    1.113    3,113    3.113    3.113    3.11,3
tOta                                    I.U1  1434           mIN    14.4141 3.5,62   3U1,342   12.0                  .2.      22,2N    23.,18   24.131   25.11      n,sn.61  1   5.6
.~~~~::::::::s  ::      



~~~~o '=  t"srnmu  -, mt ,,.                       S       II
|t'l"'""           '"'i"5'n'if ''% Ism lab IJW d'if ISA no  tm 1,                                                        1.1.%v no
D                                          "  '       *       *      *.........   .   .. . ............
138.     U! iuuu ii&i lKENT) NN    (1)      9       4       I    (15)   23    1,111   1,13   1,11   1,35?1   I,        1.455   1.362 1,3       1.11
1  I's   a I   I                                I              iw I2          I 17,                  1, 
1  111NUl IhU 46)    IN    1                             U1   1.M5   2.11    4,185   4,413   2.22   1.611   I.4   15        1.462   1.429   1.49
.....19:..h
.SuI                                                              I       IJ I 311      2,1    1.11      254      3              1
mum        m                       I      03 *  m               I'm1.       t,#4   3,l .1 I'm      # u   15      w         M              " to  is
M         UI(/11)   mm             61  ll          a        I 1115)   234   1,51   1, .            1.111    1.31W     1.455   1, 31    1.321   1,391
IRU/EUI) IIKEN 1111
^ ......:    =...  :-.- . ............:-::: 
g . . ...1i     I    0111)      2 l    3t    I.,U      4 M  1,364   LU      1.455   1,362   1,22   1,313
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  IUI                                   MIt (1  (III) (11)  :gZzzz11)  (11 t   i   I   i 3 
ws   41  3 N   awwA                        iun   a e             1M5      2     1.019   1,811  13N    1,351   1.311 I.,   1t.2   1,321.311
O~~~~'
SA



AoEn 14
Psge 4 of 6
Notes on Financial Prolections for RsmDala
A.   Ineome and ExDpnditure statement
Income
1.    The base estimate was calculated from the original XCC budget for the
financial year 1989190, increased to take into account the current
estimated (higher) collection efficiency. The base is conservatively
estimated.
2.    Each class of income was reviewed in detail together with its collection
efficiency on a year to year basis.
3.    The 1989190 estimate of income was reduced to take into account the 5
months delay in the approval and implementation of the new fees and
charges.
C.   It has been assumed that improvements in the collection efficiency will
reach a maximum in the financial year 1995/96. This will be due tot-
(a)   improved administration (including the filling of vacant key
posts) and accountability through the provision of training and
technical assistance; and
(b)   the establishment of an accurate debtors database.
5.   The markets improvements will stimulate trade, enabling the charging of
a further estimated Ush 93 million per year.
6.    751 of the onsite costs for the provision of serviced land in Kawala
will be recovered from the plot allotees.
7.    The cost of implementation of the rating and valuation improvements will
be met by the resultant Increase in rovenues.
8.   The consultant's revenue estimates for the waste disposal project
component have been incorporated in the overall revenue projections.
9.   The streets and drains component of the project is an unsuitable
candidate for direct cost recovery and therefore development and
maintenance costs will be recovered indirectly through rates and general
revenues.
Espenditure
10.  The recurrent expenditure projections are based on 1989190 RCC budget
estimates.



ANM= 14
Page 5 of 6
11. The original esttmate has been revised for the financial year 1989190
according to the projected shortfall in income created by the delay in
approving new changes and fees.
12.   Employees costs have been projected throughout at the level of 1989190.
13.   Other costs have been increased for each Department from financial year
1991192 to 1995196 as shown.
a)    TOWN CLERK     -  52 annual increase on 1989/90 estimate
b)    CITY TREASURER -  52 annual increase on 1989/)0 estimate
c)    INTERNAL AUDIT -  152 annual increase on 1989/90 estimate
d)    EDUCATION      -  102 annual increase on 1989190 estimate
e)    PUBLIC HEALTH  -  102 annual increase on 1989/90 estimate
f)    CITY ENGINEER  -  102 annual increase on 1989/90 estimate
14. Capital expenditure from recurrent income is based ons
a)    KCC's capital program (own resources)s estimated capital
investment for the eighth and subsequent years has been
assumed to be equal to the investment in year 7.
b)    Project counterpart contributions by KCC to be 502 of the
local component of the project costs, starting in the
financial year 1994/95; and
c)    Counterpart loan repayments cosmence In financial year
1998199.
15.  Depreciation is calculated at the following percentages of fixed asset
costs:
a)    Land and Budldings       -     3X
b)    Vehicles, plant and
machinery                -    152
c)    Furniture and equipment -    102
16.   Interest on onlending from the Uganda Government has been assumed to be
22 of loan outstanding. Interest on works in progress has been capitalised
for the financial years 1994/95 to 1997/98.
17. Deferred ¢harges have been amortised over 25 years commencing with
financial year 1998/99.



1.   Debtors have boon lcresed by 101 of the annual ncreae is n operatig
Incom.
2.   Creditors have been Increased by 101 of the increase In operating costs.
3.   Stock has been increased by 10 of the lncrease in creditors.
4.   Pixed assets are  tcreased by the project development costs and the XCC
capital program.
5.   Deferred charges are the project costs of organisational strngthtenng,
project preparation (PPF) end the interost which has been capitalised.
They have been amortised over a 25 year poriod.
6.   Loans oustanding are the liability for loans incurred in accordance vith
the implementation schedule, including physical contingencies.
C.  SOurces and AuDlicItica of Funds
1.   Capital Reeidpts Is the estimated income  from Land Preium.



ANKEII 15
pop I    3 
UOAI
FIRST UIMON PRJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION A S3EnSIIVTY ANALYSIS
KAWAALA SITES & SERVICES SCHEME
(600)
Year      Land  Intra-  Overhead   Om        Total  Imputed          Net                Coss up   Beeit.
structure                   Costs  Incremntl   benefits                 lx        don lOX
Rents
Notes:          1      2          3       4                   5
19S0       89     100       so        0       160           0         (18)                (206)       (189)
1991       0    1,000       so        0     1,050           0       (1,O0                (1,155)    (1,050)
1992       0      e06       s0        0       746           0        (740)                (621)       (746)
190        0                          0         0         130         10 130                           117
1994                                 54        54         20          206                  201         160
1995                                 54        54         445         an                   ass         347
196                                  64        64         445         sol                  a           347
1997                                 54        u4         445           n                  a66         347
198                                  54 u4                445         8ol                  S66         847
1999                                 u4        u4         445         8n                   ass         347
2000                                 u4        54         445         301                  3se         347
200                                  54 U4                445         301                   36         347
2002                                 54        U4         445         sn                               347
2003                                 54        u4         445         30                   as8         847
2004                                 54         4         445         3n                   366          47
2006                                 64        54         445         301                  366         347
2006                                 U4        54         445         3n 3l                            347
2007                                 U4        54         445         301                  36          34?
2006                                 54        54         445         30                   3se         347
2009                                 54        54         445         301                  8s6         347
Internal Rat ot Rturn a              13.51                12.01       11.05
1/ Land costs include compention
2/ On-sit* Infrastructure Includes land survey, Water Supply, roads and dralns, an  pit latrine bose
No portion of off-site lntrastrucure cost alloated to the project
/ Overhead Includes KCC cost of administerlng Scheme
4   0&  assumd to be 3 et capital ceost
Snluds i          tneremntal rent for *II roeo  on 1,000 plots as they are constructed acerding to tollowing
shoulez firs  room In year 4, second rom in yer 5, third room in year 6.
Imputed lncrementl rent assumed to be UShe 4,00 pr month per roo
Local Cost shadowpriced at UShOOO



UNNEX 15
Pag 2 of 8
UGANDA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION ON REHASILITATION
OF URN MAMTS
(Owuno, Natet., and Bugolobi)
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Year    Capital Incre        Total    lncre.    Nmt                   Cosa tcEbef Its
(FY)    Cost     O and N  Inc.Cts Revenue    Beneflt                 up 10X down 10X
1    1,200        0    1,200         800       (900)           (1,020)    (980)
2    2,400      144   2,544          400     (2,144             2,38)  (2,184)
8    1,600      144    1,944       1,242       (702)             (696)    (826)
4               144      144       1,242      1,090             1,084      974
5               144      144       1,242      1,090             1,084      974
6               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      074
7               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,064      974
9               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974.
0               144      144       1,242      1,090             1,084      974
10               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,004      974
11               144      144       1,242      1,096             1,084      974
12               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,064      974
18               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
14               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
16               144      144       1,242      1,090             1,084      974
1s               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
17               144      144       1,242      1,096             1,084      974
16               144      144       1,242      1,006             1,084      974
19               144      144       1,242      1,090             1,084      974
20               144      144       1,242      1,096             1,084      974
21               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,064      974
22               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
28               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
24               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
25               144      144       1,242      1,098             1,084      974
Internal Rat. of Return *           28.11             20.8X   20.01
1. Bas  Coat 65.80 eilIIon + 10 percent physi al Conti nency
Local Component shadow pried at 600 USh/US8
2. OAM assmed to be 8X of capital Costs
8. Economic benetit assum  to be the w   of Incremental rental Income of three mrket
as estimated below, baW  on survey of sub-letting carried out by KCC, August 1990.:
market   # Stalls      Inere       Total
rent        rent
(U S)      (U Sh)
pm         pm
Obuno       4,000      10,000 40,000,000
Bugolobt      260       4,000  1,000,000
Nate"         202       2,000    404,000
Total monthly rent (U Sh)     41,404,000
Equivalent annual rnXtl (US$) 1,242,120



Peg.8 f J
UGMAN
FRST URDN RECT
ECOMC RATE Of RETUR CALOLAIION ON
UN  ROD 3A3
(tn Thousan of Dol ore)
Year    Costa   Coto   Olfferntil        N               Coot   ese its
(Ft)    Without With    Cost.                            * 263   - 23
Projet Projet
1990      0   2,100  (2,10)             2,100          (2,    2,100
Io1      0   2,100  (2,10              2,100          (2,62        2,100
1262      0   2,100  (2,100             2,100           2.626   2,100
196                        0               0                0       0
1994                       0               0                0       0
126                        0               0                0       0
1996                       0               0                0       0
126                        0               0                0       0
1926                       0               0                0       0
1w9o                       0               0                0       0
2000                       0               0                0       0
2001                 200,000         (2O0,000)        200,000 (1l0,000)
20021                      0               0                0       0
2001                       0               0                0       0
2004         200,000 (200,000)        200,000         200,000) 160,000
Ineornal Rau of RIturn =    8.4             29.73   26.QS
ESIMaTON OF OVEALL 5A FM PROJECT
Total Componet
c0t  R
market Upgrading           6,7      2821X
Road lsatenance 7I,498    88.4S
Kqw lt Lnd ServIcIng      6K230    18.63
Welghted vere             19,60     24.5X
on SIX of toal projeet



Pags 1 of 1
UGANDA
FIRST URDAN PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Proiect file
1. Study for the Improvement of Kampala's Urban Markets (Final Report),
John Van Nostrand Associates Ltd and Ka"a and Partners, March 1990.
2.   Solid Waste Disposal - Kampala (Final Report), Enviroumental
Resources Ltd, March 19904
3. Technical Feasibility Study for Serviced Residential Land in Kampala
(Draft Final Report), LandPlan Group, October, 1989.
4.  Kamala City Council - Arrears of Accounts (Final Meport), CIPFA
Services Ltd., December 1989.
5.   Iampala City Roads - Maintenance Activities and Cost Estimates (Draft
Report), Kampala City Council, approx June 1989.
6.   Strengthening the Physical Planning Department of MM  (Draft), UNCUS
Project Document, February 1989.
7.   Rating and Valuation in Kgmpala (Revised Reort), Simon Keith,
November 1989.
S.  Assistance for the Rehabilitation of Topographic Surveying and
tlaypins - Mission Report, UNDTCD, New York, January 1988.
9.   Study of Housing Preferences and Potential Housing Demand of Urban
Households in Kampala (Final Report), Incafez Consultants Ltd,
September 1989.



UQ
lnr| IIAO    rlme
-P1ami C, L _
.id)  Page 2rt.lt.e 
Litir Lt_ Seric
pullcc  1elie
Cli.)..lilt  |  tldlo
*ralates        cowmi I Ageme                        le NMIth                   0 I
||||11_11  See                                                               Fo o W  od, v0e  
. ~~~Chart I                                                                  1  Coebrol _OWM
not1Ilofi      Page 2                                                                           O1+*f 
Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ftw Ll_"r tow
too~~~~I
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
elti I sta"                                        Moit H@*lb6blen
b4il-lti             ~~~~~Oftlea Seblcz
ilzl_le~ ~ ~~~~~~"ato l                                                -IMLt
hs                                                                              -H 1t tzebo                 e
C1190~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Treffle CWAPOI,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CIeu,.le



CHART 2
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
OBGABIZAZIM
Leading Ministry:          I MPED  I STEERING COMMITTE
Ministry of Planning &         I  Members of Steering Committe:
Economic Development           I    (Represents all Ministries
(MPED)                         I    involved in the proJect)
I    MPED (Chairman)
I  Ministry of Local Government
I  Ministry of Water & Mineral
I    Development
I  Ministry of Lands and Surveys
I  Ministry of Housing and Urban
I    Development
I  Ministry of Finance
I  City Council of Kampala
I  ProJect Coordinator
I  (Secretary)
I
I PROJKCT COORDIN&TION UNIT I
I          (PCU)             I
Consisting of
1 Coordin tor (Local)
I
I
I
1 Water Engineer (Local        I           1 Urban Planner (local)
1 Water Engineer (techn.       I
assistance)                  1           1 Municipal Engineer
I               (TchuLcaZ Assistance)
Accountant (local)
Support Staff: typists, drivers



1-:!} - 
---£~                   I 
-I]
-E§m}J  - 4 
J.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 2247A
r - -  -  '     tn                      - - nb a4b
SUDAN                    .        w  5d v
) t?HIO#IA -           >                                                    UGANDA
CAR,z,   ,                     st -.- ~CITY OF KAMPALA
*AAKENYA                -
T rANZANiA
_ _ _ _ _ _  _ _   _  __.                       /      '                                                                           q
Kawea?pe
\    Ko.wva S;rK /  \  
\ and Serices       A     '| Wand*
*                    ---8'jM   e\                               KMA                 Q 
1   X                              M   \\ -    NEno  4<  bi No Wla
Ifr                                                                                                                   S Notut ~t ' Kbugu 0, f < / t 5tli ^ Lu2iro
\   \                     KiEve/"\                     V~~~~~K
Gob.
EX(ING         To BE REHABIUTATED                                             N. ;s
UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                       \
*           0   Urban Markets                   /                                                       \
*           A   Municipal Depots
0    Re"se ips
? KoKwalo Servied Land
--       PiPmory Rocds
Secondory Roads                                                          \Mulungu I                            t
-    - Kampala City Council Limits
- - -  International Boundoaries
KILOMETERS 0      1      2       3      4       5
MILESo                       2           3
JULY 19O



