Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21418
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
CREDIT 2206-UG
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.7 (US$28.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ON A FIRST URBAN PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P002933
L/C NUMBER: 22060
December 27,2000
Water and Urban 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN IS
(Exchange Rate Effective June, 2000)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$1.00 = USh 1,500
FISCAL YEAR
Government    July 1 - June 30
KCC            October I - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CBD               Central Business District
CSP               Country Strategy Paper
EIRR              Economic Internal Rate of Return
GTZ               Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA               International Development Association
KCC               Kampala City Council
MLHUD             Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
MoFPED            Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG              Ministry of Local Government
NDF               Nordic Development Fund
NGO               Non Governmental Organization
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PIP               Program Implementation Plan
SC                Steering Committee
SFR               Strategic Framework for Reform
UFUP              Uganda First Urban Project
Vice President        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director      James W. Adams
Sector Manager        Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader      Lance Morrell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. PROJECT DATA ..................................................................1
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ..................................................................1
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY .....2
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND  OUTPUTS ..................................................................                                     4
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ..........................................8
6.  SUSTAINABILITY  ..................................................................9
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE . ................................................................. 0
8. LESSONS LEARNED ..................................................................                                                         I 1
9.  PARTNER COMMENTS ................................................................. 13
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .................................................................                                                  13
ANNEX 1. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS/LOG FRAME MATRIX .......................................... 14
ANNEX  2. PROJECT COSTS AND  FINANCING .................................................................                                      27
ANNEX  3:  ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .................................................................                                     29
ANNEX  4:  BANK  INPUTS ................................................................. 33
ANNEX 5. RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS ............. 3 5
ANNEX  6. RATINGS OF BANK  AND  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ......................                                             ......................... 36
ANNEX  7. LIST OF SUPPORTING  DOCUMENTS .....................................................                                    ............ 37
ANNEX  8. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION .................................................................                                           38
MAP IBRD NO. 22472
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002933                        Project Name: First Urban Project
Team Leader: Lance Morrell                 TL Unit: AFTUI
ICR Type: Core ICR                         ICR Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: First Urban Project   L/C/TF Number:  IDA-22060
Country/Department: Uganda                       Region:  Africa Regional Office
Sector/sub-sector: UM- Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original     Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/15/1987             Effective:  09/10/1991    11/21/1991
Appraisal:  05/02/1990               MTR:  12/31/1993       10/18/1993
Approval:  01/22/1991             Closing:  06/30/1998     06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL/
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Other Partners: Nordic Development Fund (NDF);
Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
STAFF                           Current                        At Appraisal
Vice President:           Callisto E. Madavo              Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:          James W. Adams                  Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:           Jeffrey S. Racki                Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:       Lance Morrell                   Richard Beardmore
ICR Primary Author:       Ephrem Asebe/Rowena Martinez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN= Highly Unlikely, HU= Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:     S
Sustainability:  L
Institutional Development Impact:  M
Bank Perfornance:     S
Borrower Performance:     S
QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at Entry:   N/A
Project at Risk at Any Time:   YES
-1-



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the Project as stated in the SAR (Report No. 8921-UG, December 3,
1990) were to:(a) improve living conditions and alleviate poverty in Kampala; (b) improve urban
financial management; (c) strengthen institutional capacity.
The project objectives were broadly in line with the IDA's long-term Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Uganda which since 1990 includes: (i) restoration of macro-economic stability; (ii)
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure; and (iii) implementation of structural reforms and
investments in productive and human resources to address long term development objectives.
The project objectives were also important to the country, in particular to Kampala City Council
(KCC) at the time when its financial base has substantially shrunk and its infrastructure and
service delivery had deteriorated as a result of the past several years of civil strife and
mismanagement.
Two key strategic concepts underlining the project concept were decentralization and improved
municipal infrastructure services. At appraisal, the legal and policy environment for
decentralization of the country were not yet fully articulated; but the Project anticipated such
changes based on Government's pronouncements about its plan to foster far reaching
decentralization. With respect to municipal infrastructure service delivery, however, the opposite
happened. While the country's development strategy anticipates public sector reform and greater
role for private sector participation, the design for improved infrastructure service delivery was
based on provision of infrastructure services by departmental organizations themselves. As a
result, during implementation, it was found necessary to re-align twice the project service
delivery mechanism with the prevailing private sector led development strategy of the country's
economy. This provided three distinct phases of project implementation.
The first re-alignment took place after the mid-term review articulated the need for alternative
mechanisms of service delivery. Subsequently, the Project was formally restructured in
November 1994 with a view of enabling KCC to deliver better basic municipal services through
contracting out to the private sector and improve financial and operational performance and to
reorganize KCC to be a service center demand responsive institution. The second re-alignment
arose out of KCC's desire to deepen private sector based infrastructure service delivery. This led
KCC to the formulation of its Strategic Framework for Reform (SFR) between November 1996
and July 1998. The SFR re-aligned KCC's development strategy to address changes in the
national economic environment such as development in decentralization, the state of deterioration
of its municipal service delivery, and inadequate remuneration of KCC due to low revenue base
and collection and freeze in recruitment of staff.
Measured by the large number of components and the available competent staff, particularly at
KCC, the Project as originally designed was complex and demanding for the implementing
agencies. The anticipated high risks were to be mitigated through training and macro-economic
recovery measures supported by IDA's restructuring operations. The remaining main risks, for
example, the low remuneration which proved critical in capacity building, was highlighted. The
lack of adequate counterpart fund on project implementation was identified and mitigating
measures advised. However, the impact of the centralized implementation arrangement on
KCC's ownership of Project was not adequately assessed; the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
was placed under a Steering Committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development with representatives of the implementing agencies.
-2-



3.2 Revised Objective:
Following IDA's mid-term review mission, the Project was restructured. However, since the
original project development objectives were broad enough, there was no need to formally
reformulate the project objectives. As a result, it was not found necessary to seek approval nor to
report to the Executive Directors. Instead, it was agreed to urgently re-orient future activities of
the Project on: (a) strengthening KCC's ability to better deliver, finance and maintain basic urban
services for all Kampala residents, particularly the poor; (b) assisting KCC in getting
demonstrable physical improvements on the ground aimed at gaining its credibility among the
population it serves; and (c) strengthening the institutional capacity of sector institutions. It was
also agreed that Uganda First Urban Project (UFUP) is primarily a KCC project and KCC must
take full ownership. It was further found necessary to emphasize that both the PCU and KCC
consultants were there to provide technical advice and to facilitate interaction with IDA and not
to replace KCC.
3.3 Original Components:
The main project components were:(i) rehabilitation of urban infrastructure in Kampala including
urban markets, refuse collection and disposal, maintenance of urban roads, storm drains and
footpaths streets and drains and rehabilitation of selected office; (ii) urban land management
including updated topographical mapping of Kampala, strengthening of urban investment
planning and provision of serviced residential land (Kawaala Sites and Services); (iii) technical
assistance and training for KCC, the Ministry of Local Government, and PPD staff and fund for
project preparation for a small towns water and sanitation project; and (iv) financing for the
preparation of a possible free standing IDA credit for a small towns water and sanitation project
with primary focus on the rehabilitation and expansion and new construction of water supplies
and sanitation facility in towns.
The above project components were reasonably related to the project objectives. The weakness
of the capacity of the implementing agencies, particularly KCC and MLG, were recognized and
the design of the Project attempted to augment administrative and financial management capacity
through technical assistance. However, as noted above, the two components: provision of the
rehabilitation of urban infrastructure and the technical assistance were envisioned within the
traditional municipal service delivery paradigm based mainly on force account. Given the
approach chosen, the delays experienced in equipment procurement was to cost KCC its standing
among the citizens.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the Mid-term Review, it became evident that given the recent emphasis on
decentralization, there was a need to refocus future project activities towards strengthening
KCC's ability to better deliver, finance and maintain basic urban services. It was felt that there
was an urgent need for KCC to show demonstrable physical improvements on the ground in order
to regain some of its lost credibility with the population it serves. In addition, it was also
recognized that KCC's operating efficiency could be increased by more actively involving the
local private sector through contracting out various services and functions under the restructured
project. It was determined that the project objectives would be best served by canceling the
Kawaala Sites and Services component and reallocating the component's budget for more urgent
improvements in basic municipal services and for institutional strengthening of KCC.
-3-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation, there was no Quality Assurance Group. Seen within the
traditional municipal service delivery paradigm, the project objectives were generally consistent
with the country's assistance strategy (Country Strategy Paper) and the Government's
commitment to improve infrastructure service delivery. However, the ICR assess the quality at
entry as unsatisfactory. The service delivery mechanism was not aligned with the emerging trend
towards involving the private sector in service delivery and was not responsive to the aspiration
of people for rapid improvement in the deteriorated municipal infrastructure services.
Assumption about the procurement processing capacity proved to be overall optimistic. For
almost three years after Project effectiveness no improvement in infrastructure service was
evidenced under the Project. Moreover, the centralized implementation arrangement was not
aligned with progressive decentralization policy stance of the Government and had to be re-
aligned in the last years of the project implementation by transferring full ownership to KCC.
As originally designed, perforrnance measurements were also weak. The Project was more
focused on outputs as opposed on outcome/impact. It was not until the Strategic Frameworkfor
Reform, performance measures became focused on efficiency and effectiveness. Such measures
included less public complaints, savings from unproductive assets, more taxes from private sector
growth and reduction of KCC establishment, etc. (Annex l). At the time of appraisal, the Bank
had no specific safeguard policies with regard to such matters on environmental assessment and
involuntary resettlement. However, since there was a resettlement component at Kawaala, an
acceptable resettlement plan was required to be submitted by Government as a condition of
disbursement. This component was dropped when the Project was restructured for lack of
community support.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall Assessment. Based on outcomes of the achievements over three phases of project
implementation, overall outcome /achievement/ is assessed as satisfactory.
Achievements of Phase One of Project Implementation. (Effectiveness, November 1991, to the
end of project restructuring and NDF technical assistance (TA) program and effective start of the
restructure project, July 1995). This period cover the restructuring of KCC and the
implementation of the NDF-financed TA capacity building program. The outcome of this phase
was on the whole unsatisfactory.
With respect to KCC, this period was mainly focused on procurement processing and training of
KCC's staff. Procurement process took a long time which adversely affected project
implementation and had a demoralizing effect on staff and the beneficiaries due to lack of
equipment. In addition, planned activities like market towns, road maintenance, refuse collection
and training suffered because of the delays in processing procurement which resulted to a
deterioration of public support for KCC. The Kawaala Sites and Services was dropped from the
Project due to lack of political support to address the land rights issues and lack of public trust.
The technical assistance supported by some US$4.6 million was provided by NDF. An
evaluation of the outcome/impact of the technical assistance component was undertaken by NDF
in October 1996, a year after the technical assistance was withdrawn. The review concluded that
from the stand point of sustainable development, the TA provided to KCC failed to achieve its
objectives. According to the report, "the activities of this period, with few exceptions, left few
-4-



tangible results in terms of documentation, training manuals, new skills and expertise, and new
management routines and procedures in place to benefit KCC after the expert left".
On the other hand, there were some significant exceptions such as the TA for training and
strengthening of the valuation section under the City's Treasury which led to significant
improved revenue collection. The TA support to MLG also resulted in a manual for financial
management which was distributed to local governments. A manual for the Tender Board was
also prepared. More importantly, the exposure of a large number of KCC staff and council
members to new approaches and ideals of what municipal service delivery should be, created a
significant re-orientation of KCC staff and helped foster in future years the new direction of
reform that took place within KCC, which resulted in SFR. This perspective had not clearly
emerged at the time NDF did its evaluation study.
Achievements of Phase Two of Project Implementation. (July 1995 to June 1998)
Achievement of objectives during phase two was satisfactory. With the delivery of the procured
equipment, and the completion of processing of bids for civil works, this phase saw completion of
some of the civil works planned under the Project including improvement of the urban markets,
solid waste management, urban roads and drain maintenance. Most important for KCC, this was
a period of soul searching. With an ongoing dialogue with the Bank, KCC took increasing
ownership of the Project and went on to develop, its Strategic Frameworkfor Reform based on
wide participation of stakeholders. The outcome and commitments shown during this period led
the Bank to extend the Project closing date by two years from July 1, 1998 to June 30, 2000.
Achievements of Phase Three of Project Implementation (July 1998 to June 30, 2000). The
outcome of phase three, the period of SFR implementation, is assessed as highly satisfactory.
This period saw KCC, with the support of Kirklees Technical Cooperation, taking full ownership
of the Project. In addition, to completing the remaining civil works under UFUP, KCC tested the
New Solid Waste Ordinance (1999) passed by KCC which allowed the private sector to
participate in the provision of solid waste management services in Kampala District. The pilot
refuse collection service in Makindye Division was financed under UFUP and was well designed.
The result of the pilot indicated that Makindaye Division can offer a lower unit cost if they
contract out the refuse collection. KCC also undertook successfully the preparation of the
Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project-Cr. 3203 (NCRP) and Component 3 of the Local
Government Development Program-Cr. 3295 (LGDP) including their respective Project
Implementation Plans (PIPs). These projects are now under implementation and appear to be
progressing well.
4.2 Outputs by components. (Annex 1)
A.   KCC Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Urban Markets. Some 25,000 vendors now benefit from the rehabilitation of the markets. The
hand over of all three markets, Owino, Bugolobi, Natete, was effected by July 30, 1997 within
budget. The operation of these markets had significantly helped improve the living condition of
the people of Kampala. Under the Project, more lockup stalls, stall sheds, offloading sheds, toilet
and administration blocks were provided than planned at appraisal. It is estimated that on the
average a vendor who owns a stall can earn an income of Ush 5000 per day or about 25% more
than a primary school teacher. Beneficiary participation in the design and execution of this
component was highly significant. Upgrading of these urban markets under the Project had led to
an increase attraction of customers. This in turn has led vendors in Nakawa, Kabalagala, Kiseka,
Makerere-Kivulu, and Kamwokya markets to improve their respective markets on self-help basis.
-5-



A major shortcoming is that there is flooding during heavy rains in Owino Market, but this is
expected to be relieved by the rehabilitation of the Nakivubo Channel.
Solid Waste Management. The deployment of some 550 skips and 30 transport refuse collection
vehicles has made it possible for KCC to increase its waste disposal operation by 100%. As a
result, solid waste management in the city has improved significantly, resulted in wider coverage
area and in the City's compliance with the environment regulations. KCC's policy under SFR to
use private firms for refuse collection and disposal had elicited positive responses. Prior to
project closing, some 13 private firms were collecting refuse for a fee directly from the
beneficiaries. With the passage of the New Solid Waste Ordinance, KCC has taken a step
forward in encouraging private sector participation in the provision of solid waste management in
line with its SFR policy of encouraging private sector participation. Land fill management has
been contracted out; and private refuse collection service has been piloted in Makindaye Division
with encouraging results.
Road and Drains Maintenance. The improvement of the road network under the Project has
significantly improved the flow of traffic in Kampala. Some 45 km of bitumen and 27 km gravel
roads were rehabilitated. An additional 120 km bitumen roads and the related drains had received
routine maintenance. All these have contributed towards the city's effort to improve its relative
standing to attracting investment.
Rehabilitation of Selected Office/Workshop Accommodation.
Capacity in improved equipment management has been created by rehabilitating five depots and a
mechanical workshop. In addition, the KCC training center has been rehabilitated and the roof
repair started under an earlier Bank-financed Uganda Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 2124-
UG) has been completed.
B.   Urban Land Management
A topographical mapping of Kampala has been undertaken. The map has been useful to produce
outline of structure plans and area development plans for Kampala. The Kampala Structure Plan,
1994, provided pilot projects for interventions which were implemented - a road and piped water
in Bukasa parish, Makindaye Division, a drain rehabilitation in Kasubi parish. Also, detailed
plans were prepared for Mulang 11 and Luwafu parishes under Kampala Structure Plan.
However, there were no follow-up activities initiated due to institutional capacity. The provision
of serviced residential land in Kawaala was abandoned after three years for lack of community
support for the project related conflicts over land rights.
C.  Urban Financial Management
Significant improvement in financial management systems and revenue collection has been
achieved under the Project. The improvement in financial management system brought about
production of realistic budgets, introduction of cost center budgeting, curbing forgery and
preparation of timely financial statements with the use of computerized receipts at divisional cash
offices. The improvement in revenue collection was due to the private participation in collection
activities. In the area of trade license, graduate tax, property and ground rent date capture update
has been started about the Project closing date. The revenue collection has improved by more
than three fold from Ush 5.22 billion in 1991/92 to Ush 16.17 billion. Charges on street parking
has been introduced as a new revenue source and now contribute about 12% of the total revenue
collected.
-6-



D.  Capacity Building
Training. In retrospect, the training component had an overall positive impact on the change in
attitude of staff of KCC and MLG. The extensive exposure to new ideas may have prepared the
employees to come up with far reaching refonns articulated in KCC's SFR. Under the Project,
in-service professional and out-of-country training were provided. Between March 1992 and
June 1995, a total of 2,748 participants received in-service training for a total of 14,468 person-
days including KCC councilors. The in-service training cover courses and workshops in
management and staffing, computer systems, financial management, valuation, rates and ground
rates, road construction and maintenance, operations and maintenance including solid waste,
training and institutional development and others. About 21 staff received qualifications, two in
computer science, eleven in financial management, 5 in valuation, and 3 in road construction and
maintenance. Also, senior staff attained training programs in several African and European
countries. The training areas included urban management, performance improvement, finance,
valuation/rating, procurement, solid waste management, vehicle and plant management, etc.
New Decentralized Organizational Structure. Kampala City Council is a much better self-
conscious organization now than it was at the start of the Project. In fact, a key achievement of
UFUP is the streamlining of KCC's organizational structure including the decentralizing
functions. A new structure providing for 2,100 posts in all grades was adopted in 1994 compared
to the 2,643 staff at the start of the Project. Further, the organizational structure was brought
further in 1999 in line with KCC's SFR. In FY 1999/00 KCC has staff of 807 staff only. By
closing date of the Project, 107 employees had been retrenched. Another 250 staff were awaiting
for retrenchment packages. Meantime, the incentive system has improved. Average wage per
person has increased from UshO.66 million (1990/91) per person to Ush4.23 million (1999/00)
per person in current prices.
Management Training and Policy Unit within the Local Government Inspectorate and
Establishing and Equipping a Local Resource Center. These institutional components were in
support of the Ministry of Local Governments' goal to help local authorities increase their
revenue base and improve their financial management and administrative systems. However, as
implementation progressed and KCC became the focal point, the above components were
crowded out in the reform process. The omission of the above components is deeply regretted by
the Ministry of Local Government.
Studies. The main studies financed under the Project were: various sectoral studies for UFUP
preparation, Kampala Structure Plan, Kampala District Mapping, and financial manuals. As
earlier noted, a few training manuals were produced under NDF for use by KCC.
Equipment. The Project has provided assistance in the form of transport, training, office
equipment including computers which improved the response time of service delivery of KCC
staff. The delays in procurement and delivery particularly the computer component affected the
timely implementation of the training program in the first years of the Project.
E.   Project Preparation
The Project provided financing for the preparation of a possible free standing IDA credit for a
small towns water and sanitation project with primary focus on the rehabilitation and expansion
and new construction of water supplies and sanitation facility in towns. The Water Development
Department (WDD) of the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development was responsible for the
-7-



preparatory activities. The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project has been under
implementation and is expected to close on December 31, 2001.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The total cost of the road component is US$8.9 million or 21% of the of the Project cost. The
Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for periodic maintenance of the gravel and paved roads are
estimated to be 167% and Ush3 1. I billion.The ERR for the road sector in the SAR was estimated
to be 33% but NPV was not provided. The ERR for the three urban markets is estimated to be
21%. The summary of the economic analysis is shown in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of retum:
The project investment financed non-revenue earning and revenue earning subprojects.
As regard the non-revenue earning investment such as road maintenance, the financial risks of not
having adequate revenue for funding maintenance is significant. Despite improved revenue
collection, revenue has not expanded at the same pace as demand for urban services. The
contracting arrangement of for the revenue earning urban markets assure a much higher chance of
sustainability of the investment.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall impact of the Project on institutional development is positive. As a result of the Project,
several encouraging trends are observable such as staff attitude towards urban service delivery
has improved for the better. KCC has formulated and adapted a strategic framework for reform.
Through right-sizing relative efficient use of available human resource has been achieved.
Effectiveness in financial resources mobilization through improved revenue collection has been
demonstrated.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agency:
*  Poor remuneration of staff A decade of social strife and deterioration of service have
created conditions in which professional staff could not survive on one income. The civil
service reform has yet to take root. In the first year of the Project, KCC was paying a
graduate engineer so low that the engineer would have to supplement his income with a
second job. The low remuneration situation was not conducive for transfer of knowledge and
skill from consultant to staff.
* Delayed procurement. Procurement was partly the responsibility of the TA staff. The
resulting delays in start of the planned subprojects affected the public perception of KCC. As
a result, KCC lost the trust of communities because of repeated failures to deliver on its
promises. Later it found that vendors were less trusting and cooperative to handle over sites.
*  Land tenure. The Kawaala Site and Service scheme was abandoned and the credit re-
structured. While lack of community trust of KCC played a great part in in the failure, the
problem was rooted in the land tenure of the country and is likely to give rise to similar
resistance to similar projects in the future.
*  Staff/consultant working relations. Lack of amicable relations between KCC staff and
expatriate staff made transfer of skill and knowledge difficult during the first years of Project
life.
-8-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*  The implementation arrangement. The implementation structure for Project with the PCU
Steering Committee responsible to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development was not aligned to the on-going decentralization policy of the Government.
This placed KCC in a difficult position to response to its constituents.
*  Delay in right sizing. Lack of funds for payment to staff willing to depart has been a problem.
At one time, funds earmarked for the above purpose has been applied for other purposes.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
* Counterpart funds. The weak tax base of the city and poor tax collection and lack of new
taxable revenue sources had made it difficult for KCC to provide counter part funding.
*  SFR. The development of SFR in-house has provided a framework to solve issues raised by
stakeholders. It enhanced the efficiency and cost effectiveness of service delivery as
evidence in waste management initiative.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost in terms of dollars of US$42.2 million was slightly higher than the SAR
estimate of US$38 million mainly due to exchange rate from SDR to US dollars over the last
years. Over the life of the Project, the Uganda's exchange rate has changed from US$1=400
(May 1,1990) to US$1= 1500Ush ( June 30, 2000). Indicating a large depreciation of the
Ugandan currency in terms of US Dollars. As of November 16, 2000 a total of US$29.09 million
was disbursed and the undisbursed balance is US$229,082.01.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The achievements generated under the Project are likely to be sustainable. The main factors
which favor sustainability of the Project's achievements are the Government's commitment to its
decentralization policy, KCC's commitment to its Strategic Frameworkfor Reform and IDA's
support under the follow on projects. The Government is committed to its decentralization
policy and its current policies to support local governments to take initiatives in line with Local
Government Acts. The Strategic Frameworkfor Reform, prepared in-house by KCC and adopted
with stakeholders participation, provide incentives to staff to achieve efficiency and cost
effectiveness. The SFR is also designed to improve productivity of staff through increased
remuneration to attract and retain quality staff, and through right-sizing of staff. In addition, the
reform undertaken to date is supported by two ongoing projects (Nakivubo Channel
Rehabilitation Project and Local Government Development Program) in which the staff of KCC
and MLG have played key role in the preparation of these projects. KCC is also responsible for
their implementation. Under the contracting out regime, private service providers would have
incentive to deliver quality service within contracted budget, barring corruption. Assets created
under the Project such as the urban markets are under contract management based on competitive
bidding; and have become a steady and growing source of revenue to KCC.
6.2. Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The extension of the credit closing date by two years has allowed the testing of KCC's Strategic
Framework for Reforms. The SFR has provided a flexible framework for efficient operation
upkeep of the assets through contracting out.
-9-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. I Lending:
The identification and preparation phases of the Project while satisfactory by the standard of the
time, would be assessed as unsatisfactory by present standard. The Project owes its origin to a
series of emergency water supply and sewerage rehabilitation interventions in Uganda's major
towns. The preparation phase clearly identified major issues on urban finance and management
in a Bank Sector Report on Urban Finance and Management. In 1984 Bank preparation funds
were used to cover the costs of feasibility studies covering priority action areas such as urban
finance, rehabilitation of streets and drains, solid waste management, urban markets, low-cost
sanitation and serviced residential land. Thus, identification of issues and documentation of the
project component were detailed and useful. Nevertheless, reflecting the outlook of the time,
preparation was by and large supply driven rather than demand driven. Even though efforts were
made to involve and consult with potential beneficiaries (market vendors association, Resistance
Committees, Water Committees and consumers), the Kawaala Site and Services had to be
abandoned at mid-term for lack of community support.
Again measured against present standard, the appraisal would be considered as unsatisfactory.
The risks to the Project due to the extremely low remuneration of staff working and the land
rights should have been fully assessed and mitigating measures identified. The former made the
transfer of knowledge and skill to staff and relations with expatriate staff difficult, while the latter
led to restructuring of the Credit and the abandonment of the Kawaala Site and Service
component of the Project. More important, although at the time of project appraisal the
prevailing winds of change support private sector involvement, alternative mechanisms of
provision of infrastructure services were not considered as viable options.
7.2 Supervision
Overall Bank supervision was satisfactory. In the first two years, Bank supervision staff assessed
the Project's development objectives and implementation progress to be "highly satisfactory". In
retrospect, this was not warranted by the progress on the ground. Procurement was delayed,
disbursement was lagging and implementation of key components of the Project were facing
problems which led to restructuring. After restructuring, Bank supervision was supportive of the
decentralization policy and encourage KCC to take initiative. By late 1996, KCC has initiated the
SFR which have been tested over the last two years and proven to be effective. The challenge
and support of Bank supervision team to the client have contributed to turn around the project
implementation and put the achievements of the Project on a sustainable path. The prevailing
innovative policy environment of the Bank in the last half of the 90's, particularly encouragement
of private sector in infrastructure service, decentralization, ownership of project, etc. has no doubt
provided a favorable climate in fostering KCC's initiative of SFR.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performnance is assessed as satisfactory. In particular, the Association's
supervision staff have played critical role in helping the Project return on course by working
closely with the Government's staff.
-10-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government has played an important role in defining the broad parameter of project preparation.
Wide participation of the Borrower's staff was, however, limited by the prevailing staff incentive
environment. The technical preparation of the Project was, therefore, mainly undertaken by
outside experts.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As noted earlier, the Project Coordination Unit of the Project was directed by a Steering
Committee under the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development with
representatives from the implementing agencies. Although the Ministry was supportive, the
implementation organization structure and whatever its merit might have been at first, was not as
supportive or congruent with the decentralization policy of the Government. The structure
formally continued but the function withered away as KCC embarked on its SFR preparation and
assumed full ownership of the Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The main implementing agency of the Project, the Kampala City Council (KCC), has been
transformed from a non-conscious participant in the Project into an innovative owner of the
Project. A key element of its transformation is the SFR which got the endorsement of the
relevant stakeholders including management of KCC, the labor union and the council.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory. Over the life of the Project, the
principal implementing agency has emerged as owner of the Project making the sustainability of
the Project as likely.
8. Lessons Learned
The First Urban Project (UFUP) started out with little local ownership of the beneficiaries to
strengthen municipal service delivery along traditional line. In the process, it was transformed
into a demand driven project with participation of all the relevant stakeholders dedicated to
innovative municipal service delivery. This ICR identifies a number of key lessons for the future
design and implementation of projects.
On project design. The mechanism of achieving the objective may be as important as identifying
the objective. The implementation mechanism adopted was based on executing project by
departmental organization, primarily based on force accounts. As alternative mechanisms of
infrastructure service delivery become acceptable with the growing role of private sector
participation in municipal service delivery, the design of the Project became mis-aligned with the
prevailing economic policy environment which favor private sector based response. This called
for a series of reforms during the project implementation. On the other hand, the strategic
alignment of the project concept to the Government decentralization's pronouncement
harmonized well over the implementation life of the Project.
Design of Future Local Government Projects. The UFUP is a local government development
project. As such, its management should have been the elected leadership who set up goals and
objectives and not the appointed civil servant or employed managers who execute the
leadership's policies, directives and programs. The involvement of the elected council members
-1 1-



from project inception is central if such projects are to be owned by the council and not to be
looked at as primarily a central government project as was the fate of UFUP in the initial years.
Second, as a local development project, the outcome of a project depends on the interplay of
politics, where compromises between community interests will have to be made during council
decisions. An IDA supported local government program should, therefore, be flexible to allow
the exercise of democratic governance and need to be based on a broadly agreed rolling medium-
term plan. In this respect, the current LGDP is a step in the right direction towards promoting
good governance and accountability, in that it openly admits the political dimension and
recognizes that in the preparation of the rolling development plan the values and aspirations of
the citizens are reflected in the plan, and are subject to review and changes by their elected
representatives.
Phasing of consultant's activities. Phasing of the consulting services appeared to be determined
from the consulting firm's point of view rather than from the standpoint of the requirement of the
transfer of technology. Because the consultant service duration was not aligned with the
objective situation in KCC, the transfer of technology was much less than expected. The phasing
of the consultant's activities, thus, contributed to misunderstandings of roles of KCC consultants
and led to conflicts between staffs and consultants.
Project ownership. The SFR was developed in-house by KCC's own staff and adopted with the
participation of all stakeholders. The SFR, is essentially critical of the initial project concept of
supply driven municipal service delivery and the design of the technical assistance tailored to
train staff oriented to manage improved traditional departmental municipal service delivery.
After the restructuring of the Project, and in the face of the ongoing decentralization process, the
continued maintenance of the Project Coordination Unit under the Ministry of Finance, Economic
and Development Ministry was anachronism. KCC should have been given responsibility for the
management of the Project.
Right sizing. When people are well informed and recognize the desire of the general public for
improved service delivery that cannot be met under the prevailing institutional structure and
arrangement, with appropriate incentive, they can spearhead reforms including right-sizing of the
organization.
Procurement Capacity. Procurement has become the Achilles' heel of many IDA financed
projects, resulting in delays in implementation and costing significant opportunity costs for a
recipient country by raising the effective rate of interest the country pays for the credit. In the
case of UFUP, neither the technical assistant specialists, or the Project Coordination Unit staff
assigned to implement the Project had the prerequisite knowledge to undertake procurement
based on World Bank procedures and guidelines. While significant improvements were observed
in the last two years of the Project when KCC took full ownership, the first three valuable years
were effectively lost in the procurement process. In future project design, it is important that the
project implementation team has qualified procurement staff. If need be, a short term
procurement specialist consultancy should assist the implementation team at the start and various
interval.
-12-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A full text of the Borrower's comments is attached to this Report as an annex. The overall
assessment of the Borrower is that the Project has positive outcome and impact. The Borrower
noted that the Project has made positive contribution both to the physical improvement and
institutional capacity development of KCC. Noting the difficult implementation experience, the
Borrower called attention for considering carefully the complexity and potential risks of future
projects and for designing appropriate mitigating measures. The Borrower attributed the current
project implementation problems to the centralized arrangements which contributed to
unnecessary delays in the decision making process.
(b) Cofinanciers: NDF/GIZ
No comments have been received from both donors.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
-13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators (Phase III):
Indicator         SAR/PAD/SFR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Improved service delivery standards by KCC
A. Alternative Basic
Service Delivery    - Less public complaints, -there is less public complaints now than
- Effective service    savings from        before;
delivery, private   unproductive assets,   -tax revenue has increased by 310%
sector growth and   more taxes from private  -KCC establishment has been right-sized from
change in role of   sector growth and      1,166 to 807 staff; average wages had
KCC to that of      reduction of KCC       increased from Ush. 0.66 million per employee
enabler/regulator.  establishment.        to Uhs. 4.23 per employee.
B. Solid Waste
Management -        - More effective refuse   -Current collection coverage, on the average, is
Cleaner environment,  collection and disposal;  approximately 40%;
improved health     - Less case of         - Haphazard dumping by KCC has been
standards and       infections, complaints   eliminated, all refuse collected is taken to the
increased regulatory   and pollution;     landfill site;
effectiveness in KCC. - Reduced costs of   - All waste is compacted and covered at the
collection and disposal  landfill, hence improvement in the
of refuse in the long  environment (effluent COD has reduced from
term.                  15300ppm in 1998 to an average of 3300ppm
- Private sector growth   in 1999/2000, while BOD5 reduced from
and more focus by KCC   9560ppm in 1998 to an average of 1580ppm in
on regulatory activities   1999/2000);
leading to better     - 23 refuse heaps were removed from
environmental         Makindye Division during the pilot project,
conditions.           with a significant impact on the health and
environment in the Division;
- A new solid waste ordinance was passed in
February 2000.
- About 10% of the refuse at the landfill is
delivered by private firms, hence a
corresponding cost recovery for KCC.
C. Transport/Road                          - KCC has set aside all revenue from street
Improvement         - Reduction in operating  parking for use exclusively on maintenance of
Programs - Improved  costs, improved       bitumen roads;
traffic flow and road   accessibility to   - traffic delays have reduced as a result of
safety, reduced    transportation facilities,  improved road network;
pollution and       elimination of stagnant   - there is evident improved economic activity
improved economic    water and road dust,  along the repaired roads and in the city in
activity.           increased public appeal  general;
and increase in        - reduction in dust has been achieved in all
productivity and      roads that were tarmacked;
employment generation.  - on average, more than 70% of roads in the
city centre are now in good condition, as
compared in 1992.
-14-



2. Improved Urban Financial Management
- Improved and      - ability to finance   - revenue has increased by 310%;
balanced cash flows,  budgeted expenditures   computers are being used to make available
effective revenue   and provide services   meaningful information for financial
collection and      effectively, transparency  management planning
expenditure control,  and public appeal,
increased revenue   ability to self finance
potential, ready    portions of capital
availability of quality  investments and healthy
management          audit reports.
information and
simplified and speedy
monitoring and
control.
3. Institutional Development and Strengthening of KCC
- Responsibility and   - Improved public    The SFR is one such comprehensive indicator.
accountability in   relations, less        KCC has improved its public relations;
staff, efficient job  absenteeism, good staff  transparency and productivity has also
performance, higher   relations, improved   increased.
skill levels, better  service delivery, high
organizational      level of transparency
culture, better     and increased
communication and    productivity.
information flow.
-15-



Output Indicators:
Indicator              Projected in SAR/PAD          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Urban Markets Rehabilitation                          _
- Rehabilitation of 3 markets:   - Completion of market designs   - Design of 3 markets was
Owino, Natete and Bugolobi;  for market improvements;    completed in 1993.
- Rehabilitation of works on 3
- Basic infrastructure and  markets                      - Rehabilitation of the 3 markets
sanitation facilities for the                            was completed in January 1997.
markets;
Several urban markets were
- Model physical plans and  urban market prototype       developed modeled after the three
architectural designs       developed                    markets.
2. Solid Waste Management
- Purchase 476 new refuse   - All refuse containers delivered  - 480 skips were delivered
containers (skips);         by 1996;                     between 1994 and 1996; 70 skips
delivered in 2000.
- Purchase 30 pcs of plant for   - SWM plant delivered by 1996;  - Delivery of 30 pcs of plant for
refuse transportation and                                solid waste transportation and
disposal;                   - Develop new landfill site by    disposal was completed in 1997.
- New sanitary landfill facility;  1996;                 - New sanitary landfill site was
- Rehabilitation of mechanical  - Mechanical workshop    completed and commissioned in
workshop                    rehabilitation by 1992;       1996.
- Decentralization of refuse  - Average waste collection has
management to 5 divisions;   increased from 7,000m3/month in
- Increase service coverage from   1991 to 24,000m3/month in 2000.
7000m3/month in 1991 to      -Refuse collection was fully
16,000m3/month in 1994;      decentralized in 1996, which
- Increase vehicle utilization  improved coverage.
from 30% in 1990 to 80% in   - Mechanical workshop
1994.                        rehabilitation was completed in
1996.
- Landfill management was
contracted out in February 1999.
-Contracting out refuse
transportation was successfully
piloted in Makindye Division in
2000.
-16-



3. Road Maintenance
- Periodic                 -Annual road maintenance     - Approx. 33km of bitumen
maintenance/upgrading of at   coverage (both PRM and RRM);  roads and 24km of gravel roads
least 20 km of bitumen roads   - Complete PRM and RRM   were covered under two periodic
and 30 km of gravel roads and  contracts by 1996;        road maintenance contracts
associated drains;         -Purchase all materials and plant between 1994 and 1997.
- Routing maintenance of at    for KCC road maintenance by    - 33km of bitumen roads and
least 120 km of bitumen roads  1996;                     7km of gravel roads were
and 20 km of gravel roads by   - Roads database for improved    covered under one routine road
contract                   road maintenance planning;
- Buy 10 pcs of plant for road   - Complete rehabilitation of  mamtenance contract f    1995/96.
maintenance operations by  maintenance depots by 1996.     pp
KCC;                                                     roads and 13km of gravel roads
- Buy materials for routine                             received routine maintenance
road mtnce of at least 60km of                           directly by KCC in 1993/94
bitumen roads and 120km of                               using the road maintenance plant
gravel roads per year, by KCC;                           and materials.
- Improve road maintenance                               - A roads database covering over
management;                                              800 roads in the city was
- Rehabilitation of 4 road                               completed in 1995. The roads
maintenance depots for                                   have a total length of approx.
Divisions.                                               550km, of which 45 % are tarmac
and the rest gravel/ earth roads.
- Rehabilitation of 4 maintenance
depots for Divisions was
completed in 1996.
- CBD traffic strategy document
was prepared in 1998. The first
scheme arising therefrom
covering the Kyagwe Road
Corridor was commissioned in
March 2000.
- 5.5.km long Kiteezi road has
been upgraded to bitumen
standards. The works will be
complete by 30 April 2000.
- Emergency road maintenance
contracts were carried out in 3
Divisions, to cover pot hole
repairs on approximately 25km
of roads between March and June
2000.
- Design and project preparation
of the Nakivubo channel
rehabilitation project was
completed in 1997. Execution of
works is being undertaken under
the NCRP.
-17-



Table 1: Key Implementation Indicators for Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Civil Works
L)~ito                          Qutw                                   Construc |;tio
Days
Appraisal  Restructuring    Actual!     Contract    Actual         PHO         FHO       Contract       Actual
Reallocation
1. URBAN MARKETS             No       3            3             3           728         755           30/1/97   30/7/97
Owino Market  Block N   4    2     ___                                               7 g
Stall Sheds                   No           71           71       71                   E                                    - X
Offloading Sheds              No            6             5       5
Admin Blocks                  No            2             2       2
Lockup stalls & shops         No        4910          4910      56 19 
Toilet Blocks                 No            4             2       2
Bugolobi__            _ _  _  _ _  _   __  _  _   _                            
Stall Sheds                   No           14             9       9
Offloading Sheds              No            1             1       I
Admin Blocks                  No             I                    1
Lockup stalls & shops         No         250           250       480
Toilet Blocks                 No            1             3       3
Natete Market
Stall sheds                   No           14            15      1 5
Offloading Sheds              NoII                                I
Admin Blocks                  No            3                     1
Lockup stalls & shops         No         202           202       569
Toilet Blocks                 No            12                    2
2. SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT
Landfill Preparation        No       1            2
-18-



Access roads     m.150.
Boreholes     No                                     4                                              'k7,' IT
Receiving area    m2                 | i
Disposal area   -m21
Root Treatment Zone                                        5 m2800 .                                          ZA
Buildings (office,  No.                                              U
attendant residence, guard
house, toilet, service
shed)
Landfill Management
and Remedial Works                                                                                            _
Murram for landfill   m3       12500                     12500         122       122      30/6/93   30/6/93   60,600,000   58,574,000
operations                                                                                 _                     _
Landfill Management    Wks                                  22.4         84        157      30/6/99   30/6/99  254,141,744  417,726,444
Contract I (Short term)
Landfill Management    Mon                                   12         366       366       30/6/00   30/6/00
Contract 2 (I year)                      _                                                                 1,093,760,000 1,511,260,171
Refuse Collection &
Transportation
Refuse Collection &  m3/mon                              30000
Transportation (general)
Pilot Refuse Collection  m3                                 68405         140       131       30/6/00   30/6/00  380,601,185   563,849,840
Service in Makindye Div.
3. URBAN ROADS &
DRAINS MTNCE                                         ____ 
Periodic Road          km          50           51       45.705     |          6        2  0196   7
Maintenance (PRM II)                                   _____                                                    3' .87 67~338~8;I
Gravel Roads     km          20           24        23.35
Reconstruction ____
Pavement Strengthening    km                                 8.875
(Overlay)                                           . _______-                                      ._'
Pavement Reconstruction    km          30           27        13.48
Periodic Road          km           0            0        10.42  -_)                      147 :31.7.
Maintenance (PRM   IIA)                                                                                                V A______   _________'I___________767_______-9
-19-



Pothole Repairs    m2                                 623
Pavement Strengthening    km                                 6 11 
(Overlay) _____ __     ___ 
Pavement Reconstruction   km                                 4.31
Routine Road          km         540         216        40.14    1        X               i
Maintenance (RRM)    ____     ___   __ ______
Gravel Roads     km        180           71         7.25
Bitumen Roads     km         360         145        32.89               _
RRM by KCC direct        km                     102           89
labour
Gravel Roads     km                      78          76
Bitumen Roads     km                      24           13
Supply of Road                                                                                              125,540,000  122,814,500
Maintenance Materials
White paint (contract No.  kg        500         500          500         60        48       29/9/93   29/9/93    3,750,000    3,750,000
M9/6)
Yellow paint (No. M9/2)    kg      1000         1000         1000         60        46      27/9/93   27/9/93    9,100,000    9,100,000
Bitumen 80/100 & MC70      ton        60          60         58.85         30       94       18/1/94   18/1/94   29,840,000   29,277,000
(Contract No. M9/5)
Gravel & quarry dust   ton      5400         5400         5400        240       616      22/5/95   22/5/95   24,100,000   24,100,000
(No. M9/7&I 1)                                                        _      _                                               _
Chipping (No. M9/1)    ton       730          370        643.5         60       856        8/1/96    8/1/96   18,250,000   16,087,500
Murram (No. SM I)    ton                    5000        5000         300       140      26/2/96   26/2/96   40,500,000   40,500,000
Road Lime     Ton                      50          50          14        30       5/6/95    5/6/95    9,500,000    9,500,000
Bitumen (Agip)    Ton                     40           40          14        16      11/7/95   11/7/95   23,591,900   23,591,900|
CBD Trafric
Management (Kyagwe       =            
Pavement Strengthening    km                                                 - X  < 1                        -,- -,l
(Overlay)
Pavement Reconstruction   kmI
Footways      m2                                3700
Road Markings     km                                    4
-20-



Road Signs       No                                      89
Street lights km                                         1.8-
Pelican crossings     No                                             -    , -                             4      --:: [ -         *  *
(signalized)                              | k                                     !4=
0Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-A '|A t||
Zebra crossing with     No                                       13 6,4  
flashing beaconstralk        ii        -     =.. .........
New Drains        m                                     300                                     1Z,
Mpererwe-Kiteezi Road        km                                      5.5
Upgrade          __ _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _    
Main roads with double      km                                     45         
surface  dressing __ _ _ __ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _                                            -
Side roads with single    km                                       1
surface dressing _-:_-_:
Emergency Road            km
Maintenance Central
Div.                                                                  g
Pothole Repairs      m2                                  14516       ~                               
Pavement Strengthening      m2                                   18729               U~I
(Overlay)                                                                                                  4v
Lubaga Division ERM          km                                                      .....36 ..
Pothole Repairs      m2                                    1560
Pavement Strengthening      M2                                   11000     
(Overlay)                                    ______
New Drains       m2                                    3035
Nakawa Division ERM          km  ___                        ___                                                                 $         $~~
Pothole Repairs      m2                                    1198                   -                                  7f"
Carriage-way       m2                                   3248 
Reconstruction
New Drains         2                                   4336   ~
Minor Works (ASD) in                                                                    1 ~        24*                 ~                1~2~t
Central_Division    ____
Jugula Channel       m                                     895
Rehabilitation    _ _ _ _   _____  _ _ _ _ _ _
-21-



Minor Works (ASD) in                                                           8         2               0           0             4
Kawenpe Division                           ___________
Culverts       m                                       64
Clearing & Cleaning open      km                                        2
channels ____
Routine Operations     item
Minor Works (ASD) in                                                                                             060
Lubaga Division     _          ______
Regravelling      km                                      2.5  ~
Clearing & Desilting     km                                        6
open channels
Culverts       m                                       93                                                  -
Lined ditches       m                                    1170 v
Routine Operations     Item
Minor Works (ASD) in1                                                                     W67 6
Makindye Division    ______,                                                                                                                   &
Clearing & Desilting     km                                       13 *  E                                                     --
open channels item      _     _                                 *k i
Routine Operations     Item 1
Minor Works (ASD) in 
Nakawa Division            m                                        1                           1               [
Lined ditches       m                                     2002-
Regravelling      km                                        I   : 
4. OFFICE &
WORKSHOP
REHABILITATION   ___    ___
Mechanical Workshop                                                                      225' 
& 4 mtnce Depots                                                                                                         *
6th Street Mechanical    item111                                           .                             
Workshop                                                                         ..
Kavvempe Maintenance      Item                          II.. 
Depot  _  _   _  _   _  _      _  _   _   
Nakivubo Maintenance      Item111
-22-



Depot                                                                  .b....i. Mai n tenane Ite.___-__i
Bugolobi Maintenance     Item           1
Depot           _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _
Lugogo Maintenance      ItemI
D epot  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __                _ _ _ _ _
Rehabilitation of KCC       item          I             I             1           56       293        28/1/94   28/4/94    50,910,512    47,297,491
Training Centre
KCC Roof Repairs      Item                         I             1         304        293        19/1/91   10/9/92          Shs           Shs
(started under UIP                                                                                                    21006946    19,040,279
Cr.2124-UG)
and S         and S
126,947.59    119,673.82
Renovation of UMI                                                                       56       30/3/93   30/3/93        $7,150        $7,150
Annex/ LGRC                                                   I            I          I
-23-



Project implementation Status (Urban lnfrastructure Rehabilitation
No.         Major Project Component/ Activities      Unit - Physical                                 COSTS (US$)
Targets &
Accomplish-
ments
Appraisal    Restructuring   Actual/     Appraisal    Restructuring    Actual/
Reallocation                              Reallocation
URBAN MARKETS          No       3              3            3           4,882,000      4,882,000     4,660,000
2                 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
2.1    Landfill Preparation (new and existing landfills)    No  _              5                          500,000        730,000       633,000
Existing Landfills    No     3             3             3
New Landfills   No        1             2             1
2.2 O&M (refuse collection, transport & disposal by KCC)    yrs       0              3          2.5             -      1,200,000       786,000
2.3                        Refuse Storage Containers    No         1205            476          546      2,147,000       863,811      1,073,000
15m3 containers    No           34            116          151
6-7m3 containers    No0                        300          335
2-4 m3 containers   No         1171              60          60
2.4        SWM Plant & Spares (collection & disposal)    No          29             30           30      2,321,000     2,717,827      2,602,000
Refuse trucks   No           20              20          20
Flat bed lorry  No             0              1            1
Loaders    No             3              3            3
Bull dozers    No            3              2           2
Tipper trucks   No            3              2            2
Bell multipurpose hauler & attachments    No         0               1           1
Refuse compactor    No            0               1           1
2.5                Landfill Management by Contractors    yrs          0              0          1.5                                   1,286,233
2.6      Pilot Refuse Collection Service in Makindye Div.    m3       0              0       68405              -                      342,000
2.7                            Mechanical Workshop     No             I               I           1        48,800        220,000       238,950
-24-



3             URBAN ROADS & DRAINS MTNCE
3.1                      Periodic Road Maintenance   nkm            50             51         94.5     5,000,000      3,700,000     7,070,594
Periodic Road Maintenance (Bitumen roads)    km        30             27           33
Periodic Road Maintenance (Gravel roads)    km        20             24          23
Mpererwe-Kiteezi Road Upgrade   km             0              0         5.5
Traffic management (Kyagwe rd scheme)    km          0              02
Emergency Road Maintenance in Divisions    km          0              0          31
3.2                       Routine Road Maintenance    km           540            318          129       298,000      1,350,000      431,458
RRM (Bitumen roads)    km          360            223          46
RRM (Gravel roads)    km          180             95          83
3.3            Road Mtnce Plant, Spares & Handtools    No           10             30                    402,000       540,000        805,837
Tractors with tipping trailers    No       2              5           5
Grader    No             0              1            1
Bitumen hand sprayer                               No             2              2
Rollers    No            0              3           3
Tipper trucks   No            0              2           2
Loaders    No             I
Water Bowser    No             0              1
Conrete mixers    No            2     _                    5
Pickups    No            2               9           9
Assorted hand tools & Spares   itemI
3.4                    Nakivubo channel rehabilitation  kin          0              9            0                    2,000,000
3.5                              Maintenance Depots    No            4              4            4       200,000       220,000        358,425
4.00           Minor/ Routine Works (ASD) in Divisions   Item         0              0            1                  -                 302,632
-25-



Kampala City Council
Actual revenue Collection Trends (1991/92-1999/2000)
The Table below shows the performance of each revenue source since 1991
Shs(000,000)
ACTUAL(Millions)                                               l
YEAR              91/92  92/93 93/94 94/95  95196  96/97  97/98   98/99  99/00  % increase
over
1991/1992
SOURCES
Graduated Tax        982  1,816 2,231   3,163   3,806  3,266   3,658  3,862   3,636         370
Rates               1,297  1,410  2,174  2,364  2,582   1,871    1,961   2,759  3,226       249
Ground Rent          135   209   499    475    220    194         218    353    442         327
Markets              608   625   629    676    805    593         769    691    829          136
Car Parks            337   345   385    648   1,532   1,213   1,545   1,973   1,955         580
License &Fees        468   416   598    768  1,110    988    1,630   1,515   1,821         389
Others                95   168   293    425    693   1,097    1,357   1,711   2,526        2,659
Capital             1,300   703   800   1,469   1,158    170      539    289   1,733         133
Total Revenue.      5,222 5,692 7,609  9,988  11,906  9,392   11,677 13,153 16,168          310
Note:
I.Others are sundry revenue received by the council from miscellaneous sources: . Hall lettings; Housing rent;
Street parking; Shops letting; Plans and lease extension fee; Advertisement; Abattoir; Public convenience;
Education Tax; Road resealing fees; Tender board fees.
2.Capital are revenues received from sale of land, renewal of leases and sale of housing stock.
3.The reason for the increase in revenue is due to periodic increase (during budget) of charges levied by Council
on the sources of revenue, and valuation of more rating zones for property rates
Kampala City Council
Existing Staff as Result of Right-Sizing with Average Annual Wage Bill
Department             SAR        1991/92      1993/94       1999/00       Current/
SAR (%)
Town Clerk                     408         408          503          331             81
City Treasurer                 324         324          148          105             32
City Education                  53          53           26           44             83
Public Health                  229         229          245          239            104
City Engineer                  142         142          159           80             56
Audit                           10          10           22             8            80
Total                         1166        1166         1103          807             69
Total Wage Bill
(billion Shs)                  0.77         1.2          1.2          3.41           443
Average Wage
(million Shs)                  0.66        0.80          1.09         4.23           641
Note: Total Unfilled Posts at time of SAR was 1477. This was reduced to 407 due to right sizing of KCC.
-26-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Project Cost By Component                 Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
US$ m        US$ m
A. KCC Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. Urban Markets                         5.30         4.91            93
2. Solid Waste Management                5.29         6.80            129
3. Streets and drains                    5.90         8.89           151
Sub-total A                  16.49        20.60
B. Urban Land Development
1. KCC Mapping                           1.05         1.77           168
2. Urban Development Planning            1.46         2.06            141
3. Kawaala sites and services            4.16         0.30             7
Sub-total B                   6.67         4.12
C. Urban Management
1. KCC TA/training/equip                 3.40        12.91           380
2. MLG TA/training/equip                 1.49         2.62           176
Sub-total C                   4.89         15.52
D. Project Preparation
1. Small Towns Water Supply              0.73         0.80           110
2. PPF Refinancing                       1.50          1.14           76
Sub-total D                   2.23          1.94
Total Baseline Cost                        30.28         42.19
Physical Contingencies                   2.88
Price Contingencies                      5.34
Total Project Costs                38.50
Total Financing Required           38.50        42.19           110
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category               Procurement Method               Total Cost
ICB      NCB        Other      N.B.F.      TtlCs
18         0.67                             18.67
1. Works                   (13.69)    (0.55)                           (14.24)
7.81                0.89                    8.70
2. Goods                    (7.81)              (0.89)                  (8.70)
3 Services                                       5.79       5.26        11.05
(5.79)                 (5.79)
4. Miscellaneous                                  .08                     .08
Land Compensation                   _
Total              25.81      0.67      6.76       5.26        38.5
(21.50)    (0.55)    (6.68)                 (28.73)
-27-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method
ICB          NCB           Other          N.B.F.          Total Cost
1. Works                      9.64          3.89          1.76                          15.30
1. Works           (7.61)        (2.92)        (1.54)                        (12.07)
4.98         0.55          0.94                            6.46
2. Goods                              (4.98)        (0.54)        (0.93)                         (6.44)
3. Services                                    ~~~~~~12.61       7.39            20.00
3. Services                                                     (10.47)                         (10.47)
4. Operations and Maint.                                          (0.32)                         (0.32)
5. Miscellaneous                                                   0.06                           0.06
Land Compensation                                                  0.00                            0.00
Total                     14.62         4.44         15.74           7.39            42.19
(12.59)        (3.45)      (13.26)                         (29.30)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-
lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate           Percentage of
Component                                                                                  Appraisal
Bank  Govt.  NBF  Bank  Govt.  NBF  Bank  Govt.  NBF
A. KCC Infrastructure Rehab.
1. Urban markets                    5.13      1.51               3.75      1.17                 73        77
2. Solid waste management           6.48      0.14                6.18    0.63                  95       446
3. Streets and drains               6.46      1.79                7.39     1.50                114        84
Sub-total                         18.07       3.44              17.31    3.29                   96        96
B. Urban Land Development__                        _
1. KCC mapping                      1.33      0.00                1.77          _              133
2. Urban land development           1.10      0.00      0.60       1.39             0.60      127                100
3. Kawaala sites & services         4.19      1.01                0.30    0.06                   7          6
Sub-total                          6.62       1.01      0.60    3.46    0.06        0.60        52         6      100
C. Urban Management
1. KCC TA/training/equip.           0.84       .01      3.56    5.85       1.63      5.43     696   16300         153
2. MLG TA/training/equip            0.72        .08      1.10    0.74    0.52        1.36      102       651      124
Sub-total                           1.56       .09      4.66    6.58    2.15         6.79     422      2390       146
D. Project Preparation
1. Small towns water supply         0.93      0.00               0.80    0.00                   86
2. PPF refinancing                  1.50      0.00                1.14    0.00                  76
Sub-total                          2.43       0.00               1.94    0.00                   80
E. Land compensation
(included in B3)
Total Project Costs         28.68       4.54      5.26   29.30    5.50         7.39      102       121      140
Notes: A2 - More civil works were carried out. This made GOU contribute 25 % of the money required raising the percentage to
450.
B I - The cost of the exercise went up by 33%.
B2 - A pilot project increased the expenditure leading to an increase of 26%.
Cl - As a result of SFR, new activities required financing from both IDA and GOU leading to a very high percentage
increases.
C2 - Local training and local equipment required GOU to contribute 5% which was not in the initial project design.
-28-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATIONS
Preface
1.   The economic and financial evaluation of the project covers the following two
components:
(a) Periodic maintenance of 10 urban gravel road sections totaling 23.35 km with various
levels of traffic and periodic maintenance of 65 urban bitumen roads sections with
total length of 29 km for which traffic counts is readily available.
(b) The three urban markets, Owino, Bugolobi, and Natete rehabilitated under the
project.
PART I: Road Sector
2.   The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic and costs and
benefits of project components. The SAR based its analysis on differed maintenance costs
created by delaying the time for major street rehabilitation. The approach used in the ICR is
summarized as follows.
(a) capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect 1999 prices and are
included in the cost stream;
(b) the benefits stream consists of savings in vehicle operating costs was also updated to
reflect 1999 prices;
(c) the traffic count data available for road sections is used; and,
(d) a project life of 10 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
components was starting 1995.
PART II: Gravel Road Sections
3.   The gravel roads were opened to traffic between 1996 and 1998. The lengths of gravel
roads ranges from 0.85 km to 8.5 km. Average daily traffic varies on the road sections between
4000 and 200 vehicles per day.
Traffic Projection
4.   A growth rate of only 5% is assumed. A 1993 study assessed that urban street traffic in
Kampala would grow up 10.4 %. The 5% growth is lower than expected traffic growth rate
estimates.
-29-



Economic Costs
5.    Financial Construction costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for
the input items. The overall economic cost of gravel roads, at constant 1999 prices was obtained.
Economic Benefits
6.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)
savings, summarized below. Time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road, and
lower accident costs, etc, are not included.
Economic vehicle Operating Costs
Ush. Per km, October 1999 prices;
Paved Roads                    Unpaved Roads
IRI=2          1IR1=10         IRI=4            IRI-24
Car                      358.5           499.3          404.0            984.8
Utility                  299.8           482.3          345.8            1,054.8
Bus                      589.1           725.2          689.0            1,368.1
LightTruck               384.9           584.7          466.2            1,107.5
Medium Truck             448.2           723.0          549.8            1,380.8
Heavy Truck              767,2            1.151.7       896.4            2,062.7
Articulated Truck        1,373.6         2,065.5        1,682.6          3,806.9
Note: USD:UGshilling Exchange rate: 1:1500)
Traffic Pattern. Each road section is identified by one of six patterns of traffic patterns .
Traffic Pattern
Vehicle Classes                 |         Traffic distribution factors (%/o)
Class   Description          Axles  ESAL    H/L   I        II    III   IV       V     VI
MotoTcycie           2.00   0.00      L      5      4.0    4.0   4.0    4.0   9.0
2      Car                   2.00   0.00      L     27     27.0   36.0  46.5   39.5  40.0
3      Minibus               2.00   0.00      L     26.5   36.0   27.0  10.0   25.2  15.0
4      Large Bus             2.00   0.30      H     2.30   0.2    0.5   0.8    0.7   0.0
5      Pickups &FWD          2.00   0.00      H     30.00  25.8   29.4  36.4   29.0  35.0
6      Trucks 2-Axels        2.00   0.30      HL    8.4    6.60   2.70  2.1    1.50  0.9
7      Truck 3-Axles         3.00   0.50      H     0.30   0.2    0.    0.1    0.1   0.1
8      Truck Trailers        5.00   1.10      H     0.40   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0
9      Semi-trailer          5.00   1.30      H     0.1    0.1    0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0
Economic Evaluation
7.      Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the gravel roads, is now estimated to be
13.3 percent. The Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated to be Ush. 20.1 billion at 12% discount
rate.
-30-



Sensitivity Analysis.
8.    The impact of the change in the ERR due to VOC changes and changes in traffic growth
rates were the scenarios evaluated. The results of the sensitivity test show that the reduction of
total benefits due to reduced VOC savings by 15 percent has the greater impact while the
lowering of traffic growth rate from 5% to 4% has smaller impact from the base estimates as
shown below.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)    NPV(12%, USh.
Billion)
Base estimates                           13.3            20.1
VOC savings reduced by 15%               4.3             12.1
Traffic growth reduced from 5% to 4% p.a.  12.8         18.8
PART III: Paved Road Sections
9.   The economic rate of return of the paved roads totaling 29 km for which there is traffic
data available was analyzed. The 65 paved road sections have lengths ranging from 0.04 km to
2.235km and average daily traffic ranging from 100 to 10,000 vehicles per day. Based on the
available 1993 traffic a 5.0 percent per year growth is assumed. This is a conservative estimate
considering the growth witnessed in the economy in the last few years and the good prospect for
continued growth.
Economic Costs
10.  Similar to the gravel roads, the financial construction costs have been converted to
economic costs and expressed in constant 1999 prices.
Economic Benefits
11.  The economic analysis is primarily focused on the benefits derived from VOC savings due
to expected traffic growth. Time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road,
and lower accident costs, etc, are not included in the ERR estimates.
Economic Evaluation
12.  The EIRR for the paved road sections is very high, above 100% (178%).
Sensitivity Analysis
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
,  EIRR (in %)    NPV(12%, USh.
Billion)
Base estimates                          180%             12.1
VOC savings reduced by 15%              122%             9.4
Traffic growth reduced from 5% to 4% p.a.  159%/o        10.6
-31-



PART IV: The Overall Economic Evaluation of Road Component
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
13.  The overall EIRR of road component is the project is 167% and NPV of Ush.3 1.9 billion.
Part V: The Economic Evaluation of Urban Markets
Revenue in flow and operating costs projection
14.   The three urban markets, Owino, Bugolobi and Natete, now provide about 5 % of
KCC's total revenue. The management of these markets have been contracting out to private
individuals who manage these markets, collect rents and pay KCC. The revenue inflow
estimates are based on current three-year urban market management bids and expected bid results
in subsequent years. Because of contracting, the operating cost is expected to remain relatively
stable.
1999/00      FY1990/00  FY2002/03   FY2005/06    FY2008/09    FY2011/12
Owino                   900         960          1020         1080        1,140
Bugoobi                  48          60           72           90           96
Natete                   93          102         108           120          132
Total                  1,041       1,122 1       1200        1,290         1368
Operating cost          137 1        137 _        137          137          137
Source: KCC, based markets inflow estimates every three years between 2000/01 and 2011/12 and
thereafter a constant projection of Ush. 1,262,722,194.
Economic Evaluation
15.   The urban markets generate revenue after covering the management and operating costs.
The ERR on the investment is estimated to be 21%. SAR estimate was 23%, slightly higher than
the expected ERR. The ERR estimate does not reflect major social benefits consisting of health
improvements for suppliers, vendors and the general public. In addition significant cost savings
in the improvement of urban market has improved access to market and resulted in vehicle
operating cost savings.
PART VI. The Financial Evaluation of Urban Roads and Urban Markets
16.  There are two aspects to the financial analysis of the project investment: the non revenue
generating urban roads and the revenue generating urban markets. Assuming that KCC maintains
its road maintenance schedule, the 1999 road maintenance expenditure needed to assure the
sustainability of the road would be about 0.4% total KCC revenue. On the face off it the financial
risks of sustaining the investment in roads would appear. But given the limited revenue base of
the city and the resource needed to meet priority demands, the financial risk is significant.
However, as regard to the urban markets, the risk that the revenue does not cover the cost of
operating is minimal given the contracting arrangement in effect.
-32-



Annex 4: Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
Month/YearC tSpecialty  Implementation  Development
Month/Year         Count                Specialty                  Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/87             3     1 ML, I UP, ILEC
5/88               2     1 UP, 1 SAN
Pre-appraisal
6/89               8    1 EC, I SAN, 2 UP, 1 FA, 1 PTE,
I RE, I CON
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/90               6    2UP, I EC, I FA, 1 VAL, I IDS
Supervision
8/91               1    lUP                                        HS            HS
3/92               3     1ID,lUP,1FA                               HS            HS
7/92              2      1 UP, I IDS                               HS            HS
2/93               6     1UP,IPS,l IDS, 1 FA,ICS,1 EC               S            HS
10/93             4     1UP,lFA,IIDS.I PROC                        S              S
3/94               3     1UP,I PROC, I UM                           S             S
12/94             2     1 TL, IEN                                  S              S
10/96             4     1 TL, I EC, I M&E, I EN                    S              U
5/97               6     I TL, I EC, I WE, I EN, I OF,I OA          S             S
8/97               3     ITL,IOF,I OA                               S             S
11/97             3     ITL,I EC, I OA                             S              S
2/98               5     I EC, I SAN, I EN, I OA                    S             S
5/98               5     1TL,2SAN,IIT,IOA                           S             S
8/98               5    ITL,2 SAN, I FMS,I OA                      S              S
10/98              5    1TL,2 SAN, 1 FMS,1 OA                      S              S
2/99               4     1TL,2CON, I FMS                            S             S
5/99               4     1TL,2 CON, I FMS                           S             S
8/99               3     1 TL, 2 CON
11/99             4     1TL,2 CON, I FMS                           S              U
3/2000             4     1 TL,2CON, I FMS                           S             S
5/2000             4     1 TL, 2 CON, 1 FMS                         S             S
CON - Consultant                                     OF - Operations Officer
CS - Chartered Surveyor                              PROC - Procurement Specialist
EC - Economist                                       PTE - Property Tax Expert
EN - Municipal Engineer                              RE - Refuse Expert
FA - Financial Analyst                               SAN - Sanitary Engineer
FMS - Financial Management Specialist                TL - Team Leader
IDS - Institutional Development Specialist           UM - Urban Management Specialist
IT - Information Technology Specialist               UP - Urban Planner;
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist           VAL - Valuation Specialist
OA - Operations Analyst                              WE - Water Engineer
-33-



(b) Staff
Actual/Latest Estimate
Stage of Project Cycle       No. of Staff Weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              95                          233.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   30.4                         79.5
Supervision                            196.6                        636.7
ICR                                      4                           18.9
Total                   326                          968.50
-34-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High. SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[  Macro policies                        [JH []SU []M   ]N [X] NA
[] Sector Policies                       []H []SU [X] M [] N [] NA
[]Physical                               []H [SU IX] M []N [ ]NA
[  Financial                             []H [XJSU []M []N []NA
[]Institutional Development              []H [ ] SU [X] M []N []NA
[] Environmental
Social
[]Poverty Reduction                 f [  H [ ] SU IX] M [  N []NA
[]Gender                            [ ]H [ ]SU [ ]M  [ ]N [X]NA
[  Other (Health Improvement)       [ ] H [X] SU [] M [I N []NA
[]Private sector development             [ ] H [X] SU [] M [] N []NA
[]Public sector management               [ ]H [X]SU []M []N []NA
[] Other (Please specify)
-35-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
[]Lending                                               US
[]Supervision                                           HS
[  Overall                                              S
6.2 Borrowerperformance
Rating
[J Preparation                                          US
[] Government implementation performance                S
[]Implementation agency performance                     S
[]Overall                                               S
-36-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IDA, Staff Appraisal Report, Uganda First Urban Project, December 3, 1990.
IDA, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a proposed Credit to the Republic of Ugandafor the
First Urban Project, December 3, 1990.
RH&H Consultant, Uganda First Urban Project, Institutional Development Component, Final
Report at 30dh June 1995, June 1995.
Stoveland Consult; First Urban Project, Uganda, Evaluation of NDF Supported Technical
Assistance Component, Evaluation: ID Component of First Urban Project, November 1997.
Kampala City Council, Kampala City Council Strategic Frameworkfor Reform (A way
Foreward), November 1997.
IDA, Supervision StaffAide Memoires, Various Reports, 1990-2000.
-37-



Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
UGANDA FIRST URBAN IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
On 12h March 1991, the Government of Uganda and the World Bank (IDA) signed an agreement
No. 2206-UG, to undertake the Uganda First Urban Project (UFUP) in Kampala, Uganda.
The project was initially designed to support the government's efforts to decentralise the
responsibility for planning, design and management of urban services to local authorities while
assisting with the reconstruction of the country after a period of political instability, social strife
and physical destruction.
About 85% of the project costs were within KCC and corresponding implementation
responsibilities. The other beneficiaries were Ministry of Local Government (MLG), Uganda
Management Institute (UMI) and Ministry of Lands Housing & Urban Development (MLHUD).
A Steering Committee (SC) chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic
Development (MFPED), with representatives from the implementing agencies and representatives
of the involved agencies took the overall responsibility during the initial years of the project. The
day to day assistance for the project implementation was provided by a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) under the Ministry of Finance Planning & Economic Development.
The project was substantially restructured in October 1994 with a view to enable KCC to deliver
and maintain basic municipal services and improve financial and operational performance. At
restructuring some of the earlier planned activities were phased out and others consolidated.
Given the slow pace of progress in achieving the targets put forth in the 1994 restructured project,
a proposal was made in November 1996 to restructure and reorganise the KCC and have it
implement a programme of 'Strategic Framework for Reform' (SFR).
In 1997 the SFR programme was developed in-house in KCC and endorsed by all the relevant
stakeholders in the organisation including the management of KCC, the labour union and the
Council. The key elements of the SFR are as follows:
> Right sizing of KCC's staff base to retain just core stafffor functional responsibilities
associated with moving from traditional department based organisation to a service based
cost centre structure.
> Contracting out selected functions (both services delivery and management) and
> Improving financial management practices.
IDA accepted to support KCC's efforts to transform the organisation by implementing the
Strategic Framework for Reform. The last two years of the Uganda First Urban project were
focused on implementing the strategic reforms in KCC.
-38-



2.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.1.  Project Objectives:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report, No. 8921-UG of 1990 the project objectives were
outlined as:
(a)   Improving living conditions and alleviating poverty in Kampala by restoring key
infrastructure, services and related maintenance activities;
(b)   Improving urban financial management by strengthening the revenue base of Kampala
City Council and promoting sound urban recovery policies;
(c)    Strengthening institutional capacity by:
(i) supporting decentralised local urban management
(ii)   increasing Ministry of Local Government capacity to assist local authorities to
increase revenue base and strengthen financial management and increasing
Kampala City Council's capacity to manage urban land development.
Since the project restructuring, the project objectives have been as follows:
(a)    To reorganise Kampala City Council into a service centred and demand responsive
institution.
(b)   Improve its financial and operational performance and introduce more effective and
efficient service delivery mechanisms.
(c)    Better service delivery through contracting out to the private sector.
(d)   Improve financial management practices.
3. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.1  Realism and Importance of Objective
The Uganda First Urban Project formed part of the Government's efforts in the reconstruction of
the country after a decade of internal strifes and instability.
The project objectives as conceptualised at that time were very important for a city and a country
which had gone through a series of wars and destruction.
The rehabilitation of the key infrastructure and alleviation of poverty were very important since
all the major infrastructure had broken down and needed urgent attention. There were no systems
in the local authorities and their financial base had terribly shrunk, thus making the delivery of
services to their communities difficult.
The strengthening of the Ministry of Local Government rhymed very well with the state of the
country at the time. There was need to establish a strong supervising institution in the Ministry of
-39-



Local Government to supervise the Local Government in the fields of financial management and
generally provide direction to them.
At the time of project design, the planning activities were at a very low ebb in the country. There
was serious lack of capacity in this field, both at the national and local government level. There
was therefore an urgent need to rehabilitate and strengthen the country's urban planning capacity
at both the national and local level to plan for the appropriate expansion of urban services.
The restructured project objectives and the KCC Strategic Framework for Reform were necessary
to realign the project according to the need on the ground and consolidate the project objectives
that had been so far achieved.
The project objectives as designed were therefore essential as there was serious need to
rehabilitate the infrastructure in the country that had been destroyed after several years of political
strife and mismanagement.
The project also came at a time when the country was starting a transition period from a
centralised to a decentralised form of government which required sufficient training and capacity
development for it to be effective.
However, achieving the right balance between focussing on urgent reconstruction on one hand
and long term sustainability on the other was not always apparent to beneficiaries, largely due to
initial administrative arrangements, with the project management based at the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning as opposed to the line Ministry of Local Government and KCC, the
major beneficiary. The project design also over estimated the implementation capacity of the
Ministry of Finance and relied on it for speedy preparation and dissemination of the project
informnation to the beneficiary agencies. This contributed to the delayed mobilisation of
contractors and loan utilisation, factors which were addressed at the review of the project in 1996
and at the design of the KCC Strategic Framework for Reform.
COMPLEXITY OF THE PROJECT
The project implementation before the 1994 restructuring was complicated by the fluid political,
economic and institutional environment on the ground. This led to the failure of Kawaala sites
and services scheme and the KCC's failure to provide the counterpart funding portion.
There was poor communication/information flow between the central government and the direct
project beneficiaries, who could not know in time the extent of their benefit out of the project.
EXTENT OF RISK IN THE PROJECT
The SAR identified one risk area: institutional weakness in the two implementing agencies i.e.
Kampala City Council and Ministry of Local Government. The two had limited qualified staff.
This risk however did not significantly affect the implementation of the project as many key posts
in KCC and the Ministry of Local Government were filled prior to the project inception.
Political constraints to rapid increase in municipal taxes, rates and changes was another risk
which was identified and affected the timely achievement of the revenue projections during the
project implementation.
Land Tenure Systems in Kampala and the complication which were likely to arise therefrom was
never identified as a risk in the SAR but it eventually affected the implementation of the Kawala
-40-



sites and services scheme and led to its subsequent cancellation. This very issue also delayed the
implementation of the markets improvement component.
The risk of delays in procurement of goods and services was never identified, but those were
unnecessary delays in procurement which affected the overall implementation schedules of the
project.
ACHIEVENEMTN OF OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
Urban Markets Rehabilittion:
Three major markets; Owino, Bugolobi and Natete were rehabilitated and upgraded as planned.
This created jobs to over 20,000 persons and improved the working environment of people
working in those markets. Hence an action against poverty. The rehabilitation of these markets
has resulted into vendors upgrading other markets in Kampala on the self help basis.
Improvement of Nakawa market, Kabalagala market, Kiseka market, Makerere-Kivulu market
and Kamwokya market are some of the impacts of the rehabilitation of the 3 markets under the
UFUP.
Rehabilitation of Refuse Collection and Disposal Services
550 refuse skips were purchased and distributed to different locations in the city to assist in refuse
storage. 30 pieces of plant for solid waste transportation were procured, which enabled KCC to
increase its waste transportation by over 100%. The CE&S Mechanical Workshop was repaired
and equipped with the essential equipment to handle the repairs and maintenance of the refuse
trucks and plants.
A new sanitary landfill site was constructed and completed in 1996. This saved KCC from ad
hock dumping that was in violation of the environment regulations and had serious public health
implications.
Generally, rehabilitation of the refuse collection and disposal services under the project has
enabled the improvement of the solid waste collection in the city resulting into a wider coverage
area and improved utilisation of collection vehicles.
With the construction and operation of the new sanitary landfill site, Haphazard dumping was
eliminated and the proper landfill management mechanism/standards are being followed.
Initial efforts to privatise the refuse collection and disposal were started under the project and by
the closure of the project 13 private refuse firms were collecting refuse at a fee from homes and a
solid waste ordinance had been passed by KCC as a measure to continue to improve the solid
waste management in the city. Refuse disposal (landfill management) has been contracted and
pilot refuse collection by contract was implemented in Makindye Division to test the feasibility of
contracting out the service in areas where it cannot be privatised. Lessons and experiences
learned from these contracts have enabled KCC to refuse its way forward in solid waste
management system.
-41-



Roads and Drains Maintenance
Close to 45 km of Bitumen roads and 27km of gravel road together with associated drains, were
rehabilitated under the periodic road maintenance contract, as compared to 20km of bitumen and
30 km of gravel roads as planned in the SAR.
In addition more than 120km of bitumen roads and the associated drains received routine
maintenance during the project.
The Central Business District (CBD) traffic strategy document was prepared in 1998 leading to
the Kyaggwe corridor traffic improvement scheme that was commissioned in March 2000.
The major impact of improvement on the road network during the project life have significant
improvement in traffic flow which has contributed to the visible economic development in the
city.
During the UFUP the designs for the rehabilitation of the Nakivubo Channel (the largest drainage
channel in Kampala) together with auxiliary drains and spots that are prone to flooding in the city
was carried out. Civil works for the improvement are already under way under the Nakivubo
Channel Rehabilitation Project.
Programme for Strengthening Urban Investment Planning Capacity
The Kampala Structure Plan 1994 was produced under the UFUP. The structure plan included an
action plan for improving service delivery with pilot projects implemented in the following areas;
(i)    A road was constructed in Bukasa parish Makindye Division with full participation of the
communities.
(ii)   Drains were rehabilitated in Kasubi parish.
(iii)   Stand piped water was provided in Butabika parish which up today is an important source
for the community.
Detailed parish plans were also prepared for Mulago II and Luwafu parishes. However, to
institutional weakness in KCC especially in the field of physical planning, no further work was
done as a way of implementing the structure plan nor preparing detailed plans for other parishes.
Urban Management
Supply of Vehicles and Equipment:
In addition to capacity building and institutional development through technical assistance and
training, KCC and the Ministry of Local Government obtained physical investments in form of
vehicles, office equipment as well as repairs to office buildings at City Hall and UMI.
Vehicles, motorcycles, computers and assorted office equipment were procured as part of this
component.
-42-



Financial Management and Revenue Improvement
One of the project objectives in the SAR was to improve financial management by strengthening
the revenue base of KCC through the following actions:
(i)   Improvement in data base.
(ii)   Strengthening controls and improving collection procedures.
(iii)   Sport check at collection prints to minimise borrowing by cashiers.
Kampala City Council's revenue collections have steadily improved since 1991 and by close of
the project, KCC's revenue collections were shs 16.17bn in 1999/2000 as compared to opposed to
shs 5.22bn in 1991/92. Street parking collection has been introduced as a new source of revenue,
while collections from all the others have been improved.
The Table below shows the performance each revenue source since 1991.
On the side of Financial Management Systems improvement, the following actions had taken
place by June 2000:
(i)    Production of realistic budgets.
(ii)   Cost centre budgeting had been introduced.
(iii)  Introduction of computerised receipting in all the Division cash office to curb forgeries of
receipts and enhance preparation of timely financial statements.
(iv)   The process of data capture/update in the areas of Trade licences, Graduated tax property
tax and Ground rent had been started by the closure of the project.
Strengthening Institution Capacity
Institutional strengthening and capacity building was aimed at strengthening KCC's general
financial and personnel management systems and service operations. This would be achieved
through;
(a)    a linking arrangement with one or two mature local authorities, outside Uganda that can
provide technical specialists and practical attachments for KCC officers in specific
operational areas;
(b)    creation and support of a training unit within KCC that can mobilize and manage a full
range of human resource development programmes for KCC staff;
(c)   specialised consultations and technical assistance in several fields.
(d)    Short on-the-job, in-house and in-country training workshops and programs;
(e)    Provision of appropriate assistance in the form of transport, training, furniture and
equipment and training aids.
Institutional development support was initially provided by RH&H Consult, whose work focused
on a combination of consultancy and technical assistance with particular emphasis on the latter.
-43-



RH&H outputs included on-the-job training, formal training, coaching, general institutional
support, preparation of guidelines and documents for new procedures, etc.
The main thrust of in-service training in KCC from 1992 to 1995 was through the institutional
development component of the UFUP. Over 14,000 person-training days were completed in
1992 - 1995, as well as professional training and out-of-country study tours for both technical
staff and councillors.
At the start of the project, KCC's human resource management was worse than expected from the
SAR. There was no real structure in place, there were no job descriptions and staff morale was
extremely low. A new structure providing for 2100 posts in all grades (including decentralised
functions) was prepared under the UFUP, and adopted in 1994. The staff list was verified and
computerised together with the payroll. A review of the 1994 structure was carried out in 1999 to
make it more focused with other strategic changes which had been introduced in KCC under the
Strategic Framework for Reform.
Specialized consultancies were also obtained in several specialized areas, especially in
engineering design. In 1997 KCC entered into a technical cooperation arrangement with Kirklees
Metropolitan Council through which several technical staff and councillors have benefited from
attachments with visible positive outputs.
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Outside Government Control
1.    The Land Tenure system at the time resulted into delays for all the market sites to be
handed over to the contractor. This delayed the markets rehabilitation project.
2.    The Land Tenure system resulted into the failure of the Kawala sites and services scheme
and its eventual cancellation and reallocation of the funds was not cancelled.
3.    The resettlement negotiations with the vendors who were operating in the markets also
resulted into delays especially as far as handing over the sites to the contractors.
4.    There was general administrative problems on the part of the clients which subsequently
delayed procurement processes and delivery of goods.
Factors within the control of the Government
1.    During the 1991-1995 there was some communication deficiency between KCC
Specialists, project coordination and the beneficiary institutions outside the formal UFUP
network, which would have been solved by the Government.
2.    Some of the unnecessary delays in the procurement were partly caused by the
Govemment, Central Tender Board which could have been sorted out. This was at the
time when the bulk of procurements were made.
Factors within the Implementing Agencies
1.    KCC and MLG as the key implementing agencies had problems of qualified personnel
and this affected the implementation schedules and as supporting the specialists was
concerned.
-44-



2.    KCC had financial constraints and this delayed her meeting the counterpart portion. This
was only sorted out after 1994 when a decision was reached to attach taxi park
collections to the project.
3.    The aspects/components of the project and the respective responsibility of KCC as a key
beneficiary was never properly understood by the respective stakeholders in KCC. This
to a certain extent delayed some decisions and resolve project related issues.
This could not be overcome until 1997 when KCC developed a Strategic Framework for Reform
with full buy in of all the respective stakeholders.
1.   Monitoring and Evaluation
The Steering Committee used to meet frequently and reviewed the performance and
addressed specific project issues. However, not much was focused in this regard.
On the part of KCC, reports from the consultants did not get response in time and
sometimes no action was taken on the requests of the project specialists. Little attention
was placed over the issue of monitoring by KCC as a key beneficially especially in the
first years of the project.
2.   Project Sustainability
The Kampala City Council revenue base has not improved at the same pace with the
demand to social services. This would affect the sustainability of the investment made
during the UFUP life. However, with the implementation of the strategic framework for
reform, and with the support from IDA through NCRP and LGDP component 3 specific
aspects of the project will be sustained.
During the 1991-1996 period there was little input in the project administration from
KCC. The project was driven by consultants who left little in terms of institution
memory at the end of their contracts, which is one of the reasons why some of the
recommendations made by consultants were never followed up. This was only addressed
in 1998 when KCC took full management of the project through the Core Team. KCC
has at the moment established a sound and capable capacity through this team for the
efficient and speedy follow up on maintenance of the equipment and investments made
under UFUP.
The Core Team has interfaced with IDA Specialists and KMC technocrats and this has
put the members in a better position to manage further projects of similar magnitude.
3.   Bank Performance
During the I" years of the project the IDA Team visited the Implementing Agency
(KCC) twice a year and these intervals were too long especially for a project which was
just beginning in a country which had just come out of wars.
After 1995 the IDA team started visiting four times and this improved on the supervisory
task on the side of the Bank.
-45-



The Bank's supervision missions were effective in assessing project implementation
status as well as identifying required action. However the borrower's/implementing
agency's slow response constrained the effectiveness and eventually affected the timely
outputs of the project.
4.    Borrower Performance
The institutional weakness in many aspects on the side of both the key implementing
agency and Central Government affected the deliverables of the project and this
necessitated the restructuring of the project in 1994 and the subsequent review of 1996.
KCC's response to the project demands improved significantly changed when the
steering of the project was put in her hands, and after defining the strategic framework for
reform.
5.    Assessment of outcomes
The project achieved a great number of the physical objectives. Roads were within the
city rehabilitated, a new landfill site was developed which is still operational and it is
operated at acceptable standards.
The road accessing the landfill site was upgraded to Bitumen standards to eliminate dust
on the 5km stretch. Vehicles refuse trucks and containers plus an assortment of office
equipment were procured and delivered. This contributed to the general improvement in
performance levels by KCC.
The institution capacity development effects are visible up to day and the Core Team
which managed the project and which is managing the NCRP and LGDP component 3
are direct benefit of the capacity building started under Uganda First Urban Project.
FUTURE OPERATION
KCC has contracted out 60% of the roads maintenance both in the CBD and in the Divisions. It
is anticipated that 100% of road maintenance will be carried out by private contractors by the end
of 2001.
KCC has contracted out the management of landfill site and this will continue for the near future,
until it becomes feasible for privatisation. KCC has already passed a solid waste management
ordinance which will enable private companies to collect refuse at a fee. A solid waste strategy
has also been prepared by KCC to guide KCC's solid waste management effort and
improvements.
Arrangements are already underway to open up an O&M Account for the landfill site to enable
KCC continue with a private contractor when IDA funding exits. Regarding markets, the daily
maintenance of the markets is a responsibility of the markets management contractors.
KCC's role, as outlined in the strategic framework for reform, will be to provide regulatory and
supervisory role and encourage the private sector to deliver services directly to the communities.
KCC will continue operations only in these fields which the private sector cannot handle
satisfactorily.
-46-



INSTlTUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONENT
KCC has approved a new organisation structure based on the new operation mechanisms as
spelled out in the SFR. The implementation of this structure started in June 2000 with
retrenching of 107 workers in the first phase. Close to 200 workers will be retrenched in the
second phase.
Development of capacity of the staff who will remain will continue with specifically focused
training taking place on-job, and through exchange with Kirklees Metropolitan Council in
different fields.
A new salary structure is being worked out and is expected to be part of the capacity building
(motivation) once it is implemented. The institutional support and capacity building that was
started under UFUP will continue through the NCRP and LGDP. It is anticipated that KCC will
emerge as an intelligent client with a well remunerated, qualified staff by the year 2002.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED.
0 Reporting and General Project Management
UFUP was managed directly by the Central Government (MoLG and MoFPED) with very
little say by Kampala City Council, who was the key beneficially. This resulted into
unnecessary delays of decisions and sometimes frustration on the part of KCC. In future all
projects must be designed with key beneficiaries/implementing agency taking a stake in
directing the project.
>  Procurement guidelines were not familiar to the specialists during the initial years of the
project despite their availability. This resulted into unnecessary delay in procurement and
actual delivery of goods and works.
It is important that all complexities and possible risks are properly identified and mitigation
strategies designed from the outset. Somehow this was not exhaustively done and subsequently
resulted into implementation difficulties for some project components.
The Project Management until 1995 depended heavily on the external consultants who were the
drivers of all the components. This created a vacuum when they eventually left and led to poor
follow-up of some of the recommendations.
-47-






MAP SECTION






IBRD 22472
SUDAN       ,        I..WI
Ks               7 ETHIO>sA  '   ' w '                                     UGANDA
C.A.R 1oiw701d. lv=1  S  
c.A:A~~~~   AN~~~A ~CITY  OF KAMPALA
- /f I'-E 1  rc
URUN t               / dto        u 
ITANZANIA  (                           .
MB\                                    /       .
Kawala Sites                           r
and Services                                               ti do
Sheme
KK
UNDER THE PROJECTwokya
- RefuseTip,'s\  \or                                         AMPALA
P/,\.\. E rimary Rs,    '
S a > >-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l Kii 9iUY
\ Soa                                                      Ki_ugu
.  -                                                                                   - ntrntina Bonare
.IOA,   "              2i   '         A\    _
EXISTING      To BE REHABILITATED                                                   2 /
UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                                                      19-0
*     *   ~~Urban Markets               /                                                     A   
A         A    Municipal Depots                                               \       
*    ReFuse Tips
KawjaloServiced Land\r 
Primary Raaods                                                                                         |
-- Seconcdory Roods                                                    \MuIlunsuj        
- -Kampala City Council Limits                                           .N
---International Boundaries
KILOMETERS 0    1                    A   
MILEs 6               
JULY 199.0



