Page  1
                                                    CONFIRMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2206 UG
                       (First Urban Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
                       KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
                       Dated March 12, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2206 UG
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated                , 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
(KCC).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 20,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that KCC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KCC, part of the proceeds of the credit
Page  2
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to KCC on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS KCC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
term "FY" means the fiscal year of KCC, which begins on October 1 of
each year and ends on September 30 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) KCC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and KCC shall
otherwise agree, KCC shall carry out Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. KCC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of of the Project.
      Section 2.04. KCC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, KCC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) KCC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   KCC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by KCC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                 Management and Operations of KCC
      Section 3.01. KCC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. KCC shall, at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
municipal practices.
      Section 3.03. KCC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) KCC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   KCC shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      Section 4.02. KCC shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C.1
and D.1 of the Project, open and maintain in a commercial bank,
until the completion of the Project, an advance account and deposit
therein an amount of the Uganda Shillings equivalent to twenty-seven
thousand dollars ($27,000). Thereafter, KCC shall at the beginning
of each quarter, deposit the amount estimated to be required to
cover 50% of the expenditures for Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the
Project during such quarter which are not covered by withdrawals
from the Credit Account, the GTZ Grant, or the NDF Loan.
      Section 4.03. KCC shall take all measures necessary to:
      (a)   recover costs of providing municipal services through
increases, in a timely manner, of user charges and fees for such
services; and
      (b)   ensure that the Uganda Land Commission within MLS and
the Borrower's parastatal bodies settle all arrears on property
charges due to KCC, in accordance with a schedule of payments
satisfactory to the Association which shall include the collection
by KCC of: (a) at least Uganda Shillings five hundred million (Ug.
Sh. 500,000,000) by June 30, 1991; and (b) an additional amount of
Page  4
one billion Uganda Shillings (Ug. Sh. 1,000,000,000) by June 30,
1992.
      Section 4.04. (a) KCC shall ensure that, unless otherwise
agreed with the Borrower and the Association, the lines of credit
available to KCC for recurrent expenditure with the banking system
shall not exceed an amount in Uganda Shillings equal to the average
of two months revenue collected by KCC in the preceding fiscal year.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section the average of one
month's revenue collected shall be determined by dividing the
aggregate amount of revenue collected by KCC during such year by
twelve.
      Section 4.05. KCC shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the audited accounts for its FY 1989/90 are completed and
copies thereof furnished to the Association by June 30, 1991.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of KCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date 25 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify KCC of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Page  5
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Kampala City Council:
            Kampala City Council
            P.O. Box 7010
            Kampala, Uganda
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KCC, may be taken or executed by the Town
Clerk or such other person or persons as the Town Clerk shall
designate in writing, and KCC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                  KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
                  By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
1.    KCC shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, B,
C.1 and D.1 of the Project with the assistance of PCU.
Part A of the Project:
2.  In order to effectively improve Kampala's refuse collection and
disposal system, KCC shall: (a) by April 30, 1992, define and adopt
an environmental policy statement, satisfactory to the Association,
with special emphasis on solid waste management; and
      (b)   take all measures necessary to increase the monthly
volume of waste disposed in Kampala from the present 7000 m3 to
16000 m3 by December 31, 1993.
3.    KCC shall also prepare and submit to the Association by June
30, 1991, June 30, 1992, and June 30, 1993, respectively its
proposed annual road maintenance program including an economic
analysis, for the Association's review.
Part B of the Project
4.    KCC shall, with the assistance of MLS, ensure the timely
Page  6
production of up-to-date maps of the Kampala area.
5.    The Chief Physical Planner in MOHUD shall direct a
multi-disciplinary team of planners, economists, engineers and
financial analysts to be selected from KCC and the Physical Planning
Department of MOHUD.  The team shall, with the assistance of Ugandan
and expatriate experts, undertake a two-year urban investment
planning program to:
      (a)   train 12 Ugandan planners with different professional
backgrounds and an equal number of planning assistants in modern
techniques of urban investment planning;
      (b)   prepare outline structure plans and written statements
covering the development of Kampala and at least one other local
authority from 1990 - 2000;
      (c)   prepare affordable investment programs, including
relevant detail area development plans, preliminary engineering
designs and cost estimates, for priority service sectors, for the
period 1993 - 1998; and
      (d)   organize a planning and programming unit within KCC.
6.    KCC shall carry out Part B.2 (a) of the Project on a site of
about 47 hectares in Kawaala, with the active participation of the
local Resistance Council. KCC, shall also be responsible to make
adequate budgetary allocations for the operating expenses of an
elementary school, which shall be built as part of the development
scheme of Kawaala.
7.    KCC shall allocate serviced residential plots in Kawaala to
heads of households who:
      (a)   are citizens of Uganda of at least 21 years of age;
      (b)   have regular incomes, not exceeding Uganda Shillings
100,000 per household per month;
      (c)   have resided in greater Kampala for at least two years
and;
      (d)   do not already own a site or house in Kampala except
those who already have a site in the Kawaala Project area.
      The standard agreement for plot allocation between KCC and
heads of households shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
8.  Since the municipal workshop will be repaired and equipped to
provide only routine maintenance and servicing of vehicles and
equipment, KCC undertakes to send all major repairs and servicing of
vehicles and equipment to qualified private workshops.
Part D.1 of the Project:
9.    In order to strengthen its general financial and personnel
management system and service operations KCC shall:
      (a)   establish a linking arrangement with at least one local
authority, outside Uganda that can provide long- and short-term
technical specialists and practical attachments for KCC officers in
specific operational areas in need of improvement;
      (b)   establish a training unit within KCC that can mobilize
and manage a full range of human resource development programs for
KCC officials, officers and employees;
      (c)   hire consultants and experts to assist the office of
the Town Clerk in municipal management, organization development
and the development of a personnel management system; and
Page  7
      (d)   organize a wide range of short on-the-job, in-house  and
in-country training workshops and programs in such areas as
financial management, revenue collection, market operations,
general management, first-line supervision, street maintenance and
other areas, as shall be satisfactory to the Association, and
through a process of on-going needs assessment.
10.   In order to implement the activities enumerated in paragraph
9 above KCC shall timeously employ a team of experts including:
      a municipal financial management specialist
      a revenue/audit/computer specialist
      an organizational development specialist
      a personnel systems specialist
      a market management specialist
      a vehicle maintenance specialist
      a solid waste management specialist
      a low-income housing specialist
      a road maintenance specialist and
      valuation and rating specialists.
11.   KCC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that its
revenue collection efficiency, measured as a percent of total
outstanding revenue receivable shall be approximately:
      27 percent in FY 1990
      37 percent in FY 1991
      47 percent in FY 1992
      56 percent in FY 1993
      87 percent in FY 1994.
