CREDIT NUMBER 2206 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(First Urban Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  /


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2206 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   69 4vsC-4             , 1990, between THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project will be carried
out by Kampala City Council (KCC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to KCC part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
(C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Gesellschaft
Fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit of the Federal Republic of Germany
(GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an amount approximately equivalent
to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the GTZ Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and GTZ;
(D)   the  Borrower  intends  to  obtain  from  the  Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) a loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount
approximately equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and NDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein ,-et forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and KCC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KCC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)   "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
(e)   "MOHUD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development;
(f)   "MWMD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and
Mineral Development;
(g)   "MLS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Lands and
Surveys;
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(i)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant  to   an  exchange  of  letters  dated  March   1, 1988,
September 28, 1989, March 14, 1990, May 3, 1988, October 5, 1989
and April 19, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association.
AIRTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the


﻿- 3 -
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, through the Bank of Uganda a special
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Se'.tion 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year


﻿-4-
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies a may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors uf the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modiLy the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,


﻿-5-
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts C.2, D.2 and
E of the Project through MLG, MOHUD and MWMD with due diligence and
efficiency  and in   conformity with   appropriate financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause KCC to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement, all the obligations of KCC therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable KCC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent, or
interfere with, such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts C.2, D.2 and E
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall for purposes of Parts A, B, C.1 and
D.1 of the Project: (i) make available to KCC, as a grant,
$4,500,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii) relend to KCC $21,200,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the


﻿- 6 -
Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and KCC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include repayment
of principal in 25 years, including five years of grace, interest
at a rate of two percent per annum, and the exchange risk to be
borne by the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any portion thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall for the purposes of Parts A, B, C.1
and D.1 of the Project: (i) cause KCC to open and maintain in a
commercial bank until the completion of the Project an advance
account; and (ii) deposit therein an initial amount of the Uganda
Shillings equivalent to twenty-seven thousand dollars ($27,00u).
Thereafter, the Borrower shall at the beginning of each quarter,
deposit the amount estimated to be required to cover 50% of the
expenditures for Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project during such
quarter which are not covered by withdrawals from the Credit
Account, the GTZ Grant, or the NDF Loan, and which may not have been
covered by the initial deposit made by the Borrower.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project shall be carried out by KCC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall give KCC all necessary
governmental approvals to enable KCC to recover costs of providing
municipal services through increases, in a timely manner, of user
charges and fees for such services.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the Uganda Land
Commission within MIS and all parastatal bodies, shall settle all
arrears on property charges due to KCC, in accordance with a
schedule of payments satisfactory to the Association which shall
include the collection by KCC of: (a) at least Uganda Shillings five
hundred million (Ug. Sh.500,000,000) by June 30, 1991; and (b) an
additional   amount  of   one  billion   Uganda   Shillings   (Ug.
Sh. 1,000,000,000) by June 30, 1992.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause PCU to assist KCC in
the carrying out of Parts A, B, C.1 and D.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records     (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-8-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take appropriate measures
to ensure that, unless otherwise agreed with the Association, the
lines of credit available to KCC for recurrent expenditure from the
banking system shall not exceed an amount in Uganda Shillings equal
to the average of two months revenue collected by KCC in the
preceding fiscal year.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section the average of one
month's revenue collected shall be determined by dividing the
aggregate amount of revenue collected by KCC during such year by
twelve.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   KCC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KCC will be
able to pelform its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
(c)   The law establishing KCC shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of KCC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of KCC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable  prior  to   the  agreed  maturity
thereof.
(ii)   The provisions of sub-paragraph (i) above shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
suspension,   cancellation,    termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions.
(a)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KCC.
(b)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
GTZ Grant Agreement and the NDF Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
(c)   (i) The Borrower has employed a municipal engineer to
serve in PCU, and (ii) KCC has employed a municipal financial
management specialist.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by KCC, and is legally binding upon KCC in accordance with
its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KCC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KCC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala
Uganda
Cable address:               Telex:
FINSEC                   61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                               75%
(a) under Part A.1        3,300,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B.2        2,250,000
(a) of the
Project
(c) other                 3,600,000
(2) Vehicles,                 5,700,000        100%
equipment,
tools, materials
and training aids
(3) Consultants'              2,780,000        100%
Services
(4) Refunding of              1,070,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Unallocated               2,000,000
TOTAL                     20,700,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a)
unless KCC submits evidence, satisfactory to the Association,
of: (i) KCC's leasehold title to land required for carrying out
Part A.1 of the Project; and (ii) a resettlement and compensation
program, satisfactory to the Association, duly approved by the
Borrower's appropriate agencies; and
(c)   payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b)
unless KCC submits evidence satisfactory to the Association,
of: (i) KCC's leasehold title to land required for carrying out
Part B.2 of the Project; and (ii) a resettlement and compensation
program, satisfactory to the Association, duly approved by the
Borrower's appropriate agencies.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve living
conditions and alleviate poverty in Kampala by restoring key
infrastructure services and related maintenance activities;
(b) improve urban financial management by (i) strengthening the
revenue base of KCC, and (ii) promoting sound urban cost recovery
policies; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity by (i)
supporting decentralized local urban management; (ii) increasing
MLG' s capacity to assist local authorities to increase their revenue
base and strengthen financial management; and (iii) increasing KCC's
capacity to manage urban land development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rehabilitation of Infrastructure in Kampala
1.    (a)   Rehabilitation of services and buildings of urban
markets at Owino (Musupali), Nateete and Bugolobi.
(b)   Preparation of site plans for six other priority urban
markets.
(c)   Acquisition of vehicles, equipment and tools for urban
markets.
2.    (a)   Rehabilitation of existing refuse tips at Lugogo By-
Pass, Wakaliga and Port Bell to sanitary landfill standards.
(b)   Acquisition of refuse collection and disposal vehicles
and equipment, including a hospital waste incinerator at Mulago
Hospital.
(c)   Technical assistance and studies.
3.    Routine and periodic maintenance of Kampala's streets and
drains, including acquisition of materials, equipment, tools and
vehicles.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:     Urban Land Management
1.    Preparation of:
(a)   up-to-date topographical maps of Kampala; and
(b)   urban development plans for Kampala and one other town,
including the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
2.    (a)   Preparation of about 1,000 plots with infrastructure
services at Kawaala in Kampala, construction of temporary office
accommodation for KCC, and one primary school.
(b)   Acquisition of: (i) building materials for self-help
construction of dwellings at Kawaala; and (ii) vehicles and
equipment.
Part C:     Rehabilitation of Office Accommodation
1.    KCC
Rehabilitation of Kampala's central mechanical workshop,
selected municipal depots and offices.
2.    MLG
(a)   Rehabilitation of selected MLG office accommodation for
training management unit; and
(b)   refurbishment of the annex at the Institute of Public
Administration.
Part D:     Technical Assistance and Training
1.    KCC
Strengthening of KCC's financial and personnel management
systems through, inter alia:
(a)   the establishment and support of a training unit  .hin
KCC;
(b)   linking arrangements with other local authorities; and


﻿- 17 -
(c)   the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, tools and
training aids.
2.    MLG and IPA
(a)   establishment of a training management unit within the
Local Government Inspectorate;
(b)   establishment of a Local Government Resource Center to
provide comprehensive support services to local authorities in
Uganda; and
(c)   acquisition of vehicles, equipment, tools and training
aids.
Part E:     Studies
Studies for the preparation of a small towns water supply and
sanitation project including the acquisition of vehicles and
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders  for  the   rehabilitation  of  urban  markets   and
preparation of serviced plots included in Parts A.1 and B.2 of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of
vehicles and equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    The rehabilitation works for KCC's training facility, four
road maintenance depots, the municipal mechanical workshop, IPA's
Annex and MLG's training office may be procured under contracts


﻿- 19 -
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Road maintenance and building materials and professional
equipment, tools, vehicles and training aids estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $90,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $900,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from
at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist PCU, MLG and KCC in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) employ the experts and consultants
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) cause KCC to
employ the experts referred to in the -Schedule to the Project
Agreement, whose qualificatio.s, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such experts
and consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
PCU
1.    The Borrower shall continue to maintain PCU under its Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development (MPED), with duly qualified and
experienced staff, including a coordinator, as head of PCU, two
water engineers, one urban planner, one municipal engineer, an
accountant and support staff.
2.    (a)   PCU shall be accountable to a Steering Committee to be
chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MPED and whose members shall
include representatives of KCC, MLG, MOHUD, MLS, MWMD, the Ministry
of Finance and National Water and Sewerage Corporation. The Project
Coordinator shall serve as secretary to the Steering Committee.
(b)   The Chairman shall convene periodic meetings of the
Steering Committee at least on a bi-monthly basis.
3.    PCU  shall  be  responsible  for  overall  monitoring  and
coordination of the Project including, procurement of civil works,
goods and consultants' services, evaluation of bids, review of
studies, preparation of disbursement applications, monitoring
Project funds, and the timely preparation and auditing of accounts.
4.    Based on periodic reports to be submitted to PCU by KCC and
the various ministries and departments of the Borrower responsible
for the implementation of the Project, PCU shall prepare and submit
to the Association quarterly project progress reports, the format
and contents of which shall be satisfactoi-y to the Association. PCU
shall also: (a) convene semi-annual Project review meetings to
monitor compliance with a Project implementation schedule satis-
factory to the Association; and (b) carry out a comprehensive review
to evaluate Project implementation by December 31, 1993.
Parts C.2 and D.2 of the Project
5.    In order to help local authorities to increase their revenue
base and improve their financial and administrative systems MLG
shall, with the assistance of a training and organizational
specialist, establish a training management unit with responsibility
for establishing training and institution development policies for
local governments, assessing needs, setting training priorities, and


﻿- 22 -
monitoring and evaluating the impact of such policies on local
government performance.
6.    The Local Government Resource Center shall be set up on the
campus of the Institute of Public Administration, and shall be
responsible for the development of a full range of decentralized
support services to local authorities including training trainers,
developing and printing training materials and operational manuals;
carrying out action research and consulting assignments in local
authorities; acting as a secretariat to the Association of Urban
Authorities; offering a full range of decentralized short courses
and seminars for local officers; publishing a variety of news
bulletins and other documents to keep local authorities informed;
and acting as a facilitator for linking programs between Uganda's
local authorities and local authorities in other countries.    MLG
shall employ a coordinator and a media/design specialist to assist
in the establishment and operation of the Local Government Resource
Center.
Part E of the Project
7.    The Water Development Department of MMD shall be responsible
for the preparation of a water supply and sanitation project
focusing on the rehabilitation, expansion and new construction of
water supplies and sanitation facilities in towns which are smaller
than the seven towns already covered in earlier projects financed
by the Association.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) Set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this tgreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Oategories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   2rior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 24-
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 25 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriainal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


