OFFCIAL
DOCUMNTS
LOAN NUMBER 8186-PL
Loan Agreement
(First Public Finance Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated J             ,2012


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated    }14                            , 2012, entered into between
REPUBLIC    OF POLAND     ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL      BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred and fifty million Euro
(E750,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the


﻿-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07.  (a)   The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions
(relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly furnish
to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;


﻿-3-
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02.  The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
00-916 Warszawa
Republic of Poland
Cable:                                  Facsimile:
MINF                                    (48) 22 6943070
Poland


﻿-4-
6.03.  The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:      Telex:               Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD           248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145(MCI)
6.04.  This Agreement shall be issued in two (2) signed originals in English.
AGREED at Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By
thorized Representative
Name: If    cpw a4,~w
Title:  U,tdr cch cY4   kJx
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:            14tLv O S k
Title:  JC/ruuov-&Yaj'-


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1.    The Borrower has enacted the Budget Law for 2012 (Journal of Laws of the
Republic of Poland of 2012, item 273), in line with the requirements of the EU
Excessive Deficit Procedure.
2.     The Borrower, through its Council of Ministers, has adopted plans for gradual
implementation of deficit limitations of local governments as indicated in its
Convergence Program Update 2012.
3.     The Borrower, through its Council of Ministers, has adopted and submitted to
Parliament draft amendments to the Law on Pensions (Journal of Laws of the
Republic of Poland of 1998, item 1118) to increase the statutory retirement age.
4.     The Borrower, through its Council of Ministers, has adopted and submitted to
Parliament draft amendments to the pensions legislation on uniformed services
(Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2004, items 66 and 67) to increase
the length of service and introduce a minimum retirement age.
5.      The Borrower has enacted the Law on Farmers Health Insurance Contributions
(Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2012, item 123).
6.     The Borrower has enacted the Law on Therapeutic Activity (Journal of Laws of
the Republic of Poland of 2011, item 654), to: (i) make local governments and
other public entities that own health facilities accountable for their financial
results; and (ii) advance the agenda of hospital corporatization and restructuring.
7.     The Borrower, through its Council of Ministers, has adopted and submitted to
Parliament draft amendments to the Law on Family Benefits (Journal of Laws of
the Republic of Poland of 2003, item 2255) to improve targeting of the child-
birth allowance.


﻿-6-
Section II.  Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amount of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations              Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Euro)
(1) Single Withdrawal                    750,000,000
Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT                             750,000,000
C.     Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program
being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
E.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2.    the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2013.


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.    The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date                  Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2021
through November 15, 2031                     4.55%
On May 15, 2032                                      4.45%
2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such


﻿-8-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3.    (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.    If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.


﻿-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1.    "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group         Sub-group        Description of Item
112                            Alcoholic beverages
121                            Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                            Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                            Radioactive and associated
materials
667                            Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
728           728.43           Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares


﻿- 10 -
(including set gems)
971                             Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2.     "Convergence Program Update 2012" means the Borrower's program for 2012,
prepared and adopted pursuant to the provisions of the preventive arm of the
Stability and Growth Pact, and submitted to the European Commission and the
European Council.
3.     "EU Excessive Deficit Procedure" means the procedure established by Article
126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, designed to ensure
that EU Member States correct gross fiscal policy errors.
4.     "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 7, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
6.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is not applicable to this Agreement.
2.     Sections 2.02 (Special Commitment by the Bank), 2.04 (Designated Accounts)
and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures), 2.06 (Financing Taxes), 2.07 (Refinancing
Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee) and 2.08 (Reallocation) are
not applicable to this Agreement.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), 5.02 (Performance under the Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement), 5.03 (Provision of Funds and other
Resources), 5.04 (Insurance), 5.05 (Land Acquisition), paragraph (a) of Section
5.06 (Use of Goods, Works and Services; Maintenance of Facilities), 5.07 (Plans,
Documents, Records), 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial Statements;
Audits) and paragraph (b) of Section 5.11 (Visits) are not applicable to this
Agreement.
4.     Paragraph (b) of Section 5.08 is not applicable to this Agreement and paragraph
(c) of Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.08. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)   The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
5.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."


﻿- 12 -
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."


