 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14887

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 01/20/2016

                 Country: Poland
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                       Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                   2
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                   2
              Series ID: S130459
        First Project ID : P127433                                                 Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: First Development           Project Costs (US$M):                       991.4                  920.3
                           Policy Loan
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy            Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                           Board Approval Date :                                 06/19/2012
                                                           Closing Date:           06/20/2013           06/20/2013
        Sector(s):     Compulsory   pension and unemployment    insurance (29%); Central government
                       administration (29%); Sub-national government administration (14%); Other social services
                       (14%); Health (14%)
        Theme(s):      Debt management and fiscal sustainability (50%); Public expenditure; financial management
                       and procurement (20%); Social safety nets (10%); Tax policy and administration (10%);
                       Health system performance (10%)
    Second Project ID :P130459                                                Appraisal               Actual
       Project Name:   Development   Policy      Project Costs (US$M):                  1307.8               1327.1
                       Loan 2
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):
     Sector Board:        Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                              06/18/2013
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:            06/30/2014        06/30/2014
          Sector(s):    Compulsory   pension   and  unemployment   insurance  (29%), Central government
                        administration (29%), Other social services (14%), Banking (14%), Sub-national government
                        administration (14%)
         Theme(s):      Social risk mitigation (29%), Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                        (29%), Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (14%), Legal institutions for a market
                        economy (14%), Debt management and fiscal sustainability (14%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Robert Keyfitz           Robert Mark Lacey        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Program Documents (Loan and Program Summaries) for both loans in the series give the Program
    Development Objective (PDO) as, “to support Poland’s fiscal consolidation agenda, while strengthening fiscal
    institutions and improving the efficiency and sustainability of social spending.”

    The three elements of the PDO match the three pillars of the operation, which have as specific objectives: (i)
    consolidating public finances to ensure a steady decline of the fiscal deficit to stabilize and over the medium term
    reduce public debt; (ii) strengthening fiscal institutions to ingrain a prudent fiscal stance (including at the
    subnational level) over the medium term; and (iii) advancing long-term fiscal reforms to secure the sustainability
    of social spending in view of Poland’s demographic challenge.

    This review is based on the specific objectives cited above.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    Following parliamentary elections in 2011, the Government set out its medium term program in which
    strengthening public finances was an important component. The three pillars of the DPL comprised selected
    short- medium- and long term fiscal reforms in support of this agenda.

    (i) Consolidating public finances: The Excessive Deficit Procedure (EDP) of the EU’s Stability and Growth Pact
    required Poland to reduce its structural deficit progressively to one percent of GDP, in line with its Medium Term
    Budgetary Objective (MTO). Prior actions called for the Government to enact 2012 and 2013 budget laws
    complying with this requirement.

    (ii) Strengthening fiscal institutions: The program supported adoption of fiscal rules to maintain fiscal discipline at
    the national and sub-national levels, with Local Government (LG) a particular focus. A DPL1 prior action required
    the Council of Ministers (CoM) to adopt a plan limiting local government deficits. DPL2 indicative triggers
    anticipated legislation to cap LG deficits and implement a fiscal rule at the national level limiting growth of public
    expenditures to trend GDP growth. However, DPL2 prior actions were less ambitious, calling for LG capacity
    building in forecasting and reporting, and preparation of a framework to draft legislation for the fiscal rule at the
    national level. A new prior action was added to begin consultations on a draft bank resolution law to strengthen
    macro-prudential oversight.

    (iii) Advancing long term fiscal reforms: The pillar addressed sustainability of pension, health and social benefit
    programs by enacting or amending relevant legislation. Pensions: Submit legislation to increase the statutory
    retirement age gradually in the regular pension scheme for both men and women, and reform the minimum
    retirement age and length of service requirements for the uniformed services pension. Health: Enact legislation
    requiring farmers to make health insurance contributions; and hold owners of hospitals and other health facilities
    accountable for their financial performance with provision for restructuring and corporatization if necessary.
    Social benefits: Amend social assistance and family benefits legislation to: (a) increase the income threshold for
    the last-resort-minimum-income social assistance benefit to top up the incomes of the poorest; and (b) improve
    targeting of the benefit for caregivers of disabled dependents.

    Two other DPL2 indicative triggers pertaining to taxation of farmers and setting tariffs for health procedures were
    dropped when the Government proposed instead to subsume both of these into broader sector wide reforms
    which could not be completed in the time frame of the DPL.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    DPL1 was approved 6/19/2012 and closed 6/302013; DPL2 was approved 6/18/2013 and closed 6/30/2014. All
    dates were as planned. Both loans were single tranche disbursement, denominated in euros and on IBRD flexible
    terms. The total amount was €1.75 billion (US$2.29 billion), of which €750 million (US$920.3 million) for DPL1
    and €1 billion (US$1.3 billion) for DPL2. There was no co-financing or borrower contribution.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

    The objectives were closely aligned with the Government’s priorities on fiscal management and public
    administration as set out in "Poland 2030, Development Challenges" and the "National Development Strategy
    2020." More immediately, the PDO addressed the fiscal correction called for by the Excessive Deficit Procedure
   (EDP) which the EU had initiated against Poland in 2009.

   From the Bank's standpoint, the objectives were consistent with the Public Sector Reform pillar of the FY09-13
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) which centered on strengthening Public Financial Management and fiscal
   institutions, enhancing social service delivery, and improving health service financial performance. The operation
   maintained a close dialog with the Authorities on fiscal management and public administration and followed on
   from an earlier DPL series (FY09-10). Incorporating fiscal adjustment to meet the requirements of the EDP fit well
   with an explicit recognition in the CPS that the Bank should support convergence and integration into the EU,
   Poland's main external partner.

   Accordingly, the objectives are rated highly relevant.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Policy actions were based on shared priorities. Revenue and expenditure measures, fiscal rules, pensions and
   social spending reforms drew from the Government's program, EU convergence requirements and extensive
   AAA from the Bank, and were specific, relevant and clearly linked to the objectives. A few modifications became
   necessary during implementation, though only one reflects on the design -- because of local government capacity
   constraints, the program envisaged for DPL2 was pared back from institutional strengthening to capacity building.
   Otherwise, where the design was not followed or outcomes fell short of expectations the explanation was
   changes in the Government's reform strategy or unanticipated macro shocks rather than any shortcomings of the
   program. Thus, the design is rated as substantially relevant.

   Poland’s macroeconomic situation was satisfactory at the time of preparation and approval of both operations
   According to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF’s) Article IV Consultation of June 2012, Poland’s economy
   had performed well throughout the global financial crisis, reflecting strong fundamentals and decisive
   counter-cyclical policies. Nonetheless, a slowdown from the robust growth of the previous year was expected in
   2012 and in fact occurred. There was, however, still some scope for counter-cyclical fiscal policy through the
   operation of automatic stabilizers. Monetary policy was appropriately eased. As the economy recovered,
   additional fiscal consolidation was needed to put the public debt ratio firmly on a downward path and to rebuild
   fiscal buffers. These conclusions were fully consistent with the policies supported by the DPLs.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The three program areas were aligned with the development objectives so that the specific objectives serve as a
   reference point to evaluate efficacy.

   (i) Consolidating public finances to ensure a steady decline of the fiscal deficit to stabilize and over the medium
   term reduce public debt. (Rating: Substantial)

    The Bank played an important role in advising the Government about revenue and expenditure measures
   incorporated into the 2012 and 2013 budget laws (DPL1 PD, Table 5; DPL2 PD, Table 6) that were expected to
   reduce the deficit by 1.8 percent of GDP and 1.0 percent of GDP in those two years. The measures were suitably
   anchored in the EDP framework and approved by the IMF under its Flexible Credit Line. In the event. the targets
   for 2012 and 2013 were missed due to a sharp EU-wide growth slowdown. In 2013, the general government
   deficit rose from 3.7 percent to 4.0 percent of GDP before declining to 3.2 percent in 2014 and 2.8 percent in
   2015. EU authorities and the IMF accepted that cyclical factors (automatic fiscal stabilizers) were responsible and
   agreed to a new schedule so as to avoid an excessively procyclical fiscal adjustment. In 2015, Poland
   successfully emerged from the EDP a year earlier than expected. Interpreting a PDO indicator which targeted a
   decline in the ratio of public debt-to-GDP from the baseline (2011) value of 54 percent is complicated by
   methodological changes in the European system of national accounting statistics (ESA 2010). While the data
   indicate a decline from 54 percent to 53.1 percent, under the new system the baseline value would have been
   52.5 percent, so that on a consistent basis the deficit to GDP ratio rose. Notably, though, the structural (cyclically
   balanced) deficit improved, indicating that the measures taken were appropriate for expectations at the time.
   Given the unforeseen circumstances, the EU’s and IMF’s concurrence in the actions taken, and the eventually
   successful adjustment, the outcome is rated as substantially achieved.

   (ii) Strengthening fiscal institutions to ingrain a prudent fiscal stance (including at the subnational level) over the
   medium term: (Rating: Substantial)

   Strengthening fiscal institutions comprised building local government capacity and establishing rules-based fiscal
   controls at both the local and national levels.

   Local Government (LG) fiscal management had been weaker than at the national level, and under DPL1 the
   Council of Ministers adopted a plan to limit local government deficits. DPL2 anticipated beginning implementation
   of the plan by amending the Public Finance Act as required. However, the DPL2 prior action focused instead on
   building LG capacity for financial forecasts and introducing a template and periodic reporting requirements.
   Though less than expected at the outset of the series, the outcome of strengthened LG capacity constitutes an
   important step toward achievement of the objective. A results indicator measuring the ratio of local government
   public debt to GDP met its target, though without full implementation of the plan to limit LG deficits, the extent of
   the DPL's contribution to this outcome is not clear.

   At the national level, a permanent fiscal rule limiting the growth of public expenditures to the average of real GDP
   growth in eight consecutive years was enacted. An adjustment mechanism would tighten rules if targets specified
   in the Stability and Growth Pact and/or in the Public Finance Act were breached. The fiscal rule also allows for
   suspension of the adjustment mechanism in case of severe economic shocks to allow for counter cyclical fiscal
   stimulus. The public debt thresholds, at 55 and 60 percent of GDP, remain unchanged. DPL2 called for the
   Ministry of Finance to, “design assumptions for the permanent fiscal rule….” which entailed preparing a framework
   for drafting the legislative changes. The amendments were subsequently passed in 2013.

   A third prior action added to DPL2 was for the Ministry of Finance to send for inter-ministerial consultations a
   draft law on bank resolutions including the establishment of a Systemic Risk Board to strengthen resilience to
   systemic risk. The Bank had worked closely with the Government on designing the new framework and stronger
   prudential regulation was seen as potentially important in reducing fiscal risks. Consultations on the draft law
   have been held, though the legislation had not yet been adopted at program closure.

   On balance, sufficient progress was achieved toward strengthening fiscal institutions to justify a rating of
   substantial.

   (iii) Advancing long-term fiscal reforms to secure the sustainability of social spending in view of Poland’s
   demographic challenge. (Rating: Substantial)

   Pensions: DPL supported measures were part of a more comprehensive reform of Poland’s pension systems
   which is beyond the scope of the discussion here. Under DPL1 and DPL2, pension legislation was amended: (i)
   increasing the statutory retirement age, phased in over a number of years, and (ii) for the uniformed services,
   increasing the mandatory length of service and setting a minimum retirement age. Considerable savings from the
   reforms are projected over time.

   Health: The DPL supported reforms aimed at strengthening health system financial performance and
   accountability. A law requiring farmers to make health insurance contributions is mainly symbolic since premiums
   were set at a very low rate and small farmers (around 60% of the total) were exempted. However, the symbolism
   is important since farmers have been a privileged group. The Law on Therapeutic Activity making local
   governments and other entities owning hospitals accountable for their financial performance and either settle
   arrears quickly or corporatize or close down loss making units had a bigger impact. An indicator measuring
   hospital arrears exceeded its target of an 8 percent reduction.

   Social Assistance: DPL measures sought to improve targeting of social benefits by restricting eligibility for
   child-birth allowances to families with incomes below the income tax threshold, and increasing the income
   threshold for income support to poor families. A PDO indicator target of an improvement in the last-resort
   minimum income benefit for a “typical” poor family was met with an increase from 36% to 46.5% of the Eurostat
   “at-risk-of-poverty” threshold. A Constitutional Tribunal ruled an additional measure to improve the targeting of
   social benefits to caregivers of disable dependents unconstitutional and required it be reversed.

   Although the social security funds deficit to GDP ratio did not meet its target of a decline from the baseline value,
   this was due in large part to the deteriorating macroeconomic environment from 2013 onwards.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The objectives were highly relevant and the design substantially relevant. The objectives were substantially
   achieved in all program areas despite a difficult macro environment. Although external shocks affected fiscal
   consolidation, departures from the plan were temporary and sanctioned by the EU. Poland eventually satisfied
   the requirements of the EDP more quickly than expected. Important and relevant progress was made in
   strengthening fiscal institutions. Overall outcome is rated satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Risks have increased in the wake of the October elections which brought a change in government. Despite an
   impressive economic performance and successful progress on EU convergence, voters expressed deep
   dissatisfaction at the polls. DPL supported reforms undoubtedly enjoy a measure of popular support, but the new
   Government will chart its own course in terms of fiscal policy and public sector reform. Some relaxation of fiscal
   restraint appears likely. Pending clarification of the new Government's priorities, risks to the DPL program are
   considered moderate.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The operation provided highly relevant support aligned with the Government's needs and the Bank's
   partnership strategy and comparative advantage, though expectations proved overly optimistic with regard to
   local government capacity. Analytical underpinnings included 2010 Public Expenditure Reviews at both
   national and sub-national jurisdictions, covering fiscal policy, fiscal institutions, social spending, local
   government budget management, and the health sector. The Bank has engaged in an ongoing dialog about
   pensions, social safety nets and financial sector regulation as well. The presence of co-TTLs and other team
   members on the ground enabled close collaboration with the Government during preparation and ensured the
   operation represented shared priorities. Although the amount of the loan was relatively small -- around 0.6
   percent of government revenue and 18 percent of the financing gap -- delivery coincided with a sharp growth
   slowdown and was timely.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The presence of team members in the field, and close relations with Government officials enabled continuous
   dialog and supervision of the operation. In addition, formal missions were held during preparation and
   appraisal, and implementation. Three Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and Aides-Memoires were filed
   in the system, one for DPL1 and two for DPL2.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government is a sophisticated borrower, committed to the reforms. Ownership was strong and a stable
   political environment presented no obstacles to pursue the program. A consultative approach helped gain
   acceptance for potentially challenging and contentious reforms in health, pensions and social protection. The
    Ministry of Finance exerted effective leadership and coordinated the activities of other ministries and
    agencies.



   Government Performance Rating :                             Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Not Applicable

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The formal M&E framework comprised a relatively small set of 5 PDO indicators so that some policy areas were
    not well covered, especially the long term fiscal reforms under the third pillar. Also, indicators were annual
    meaning that real-time information was limited. Finally, two indicators (pertaining to fiscal deficits) missed their
    targets because of macro shocks beyond the control of the operation and therefore were less than ideal for
    gauging program performance.

b. M&E Implementation:

    The Ministry of Finance collected and provided the data as required.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The formal M&E framework was less useful than the regular ongoing macroeconomic monitoring by the team
    based in Warsaw. The team produces regular briefs and reports within the Bank and issues are regularly
    discussed with the Government and Bank management. Ongoing dialog during preparation of successive DPLs
    also contributed to real time M&E.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
No safeguards were triggered by the operations.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
No issues raised.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
No issues raised.

d. Other:
No issues raised.


12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory             Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR distills a number of pertinent lessons:

    The Bank's value to a high income client like Poland lies in its knowledge base and analytical strengths rather
    than its financial resources. Flexibility and responsiveness contributed to the operation's value.

    A program is more likely to be be effective if it is rooted in an established partnership and shared priorities.

    Strong ownership is essential as well as a consultative process where reforms are potentially contentious.

    Bank support for an EU member state must be consistent with the economic governance framework of the EU.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR was well written and informative, but a bit too concise in places and the justification for ratings was
    sometimes unclear. Section 2.3 on the M&E framework consisted of a single 4-line paragraph. There was no
    assessment of the design in Section 3.1 on Relevance of Objectives and Design and Implementation. Two useful
    boxes in Section 3.2 on Achievement of PDO provided some helpful background material, but more detail about
    the Government's program or EU convergence criteria, or the meaning of terms such as "Medium Term
    Objective" would have been useful and would have made the discussion self-contained.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
