Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8391
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1129-SL)
FEBRUARY 21, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
lbis document has a restricted dist on and may be used by redplents ony In the performance of
their offial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIUTIONS
ADF  -    African Development Fund
ARE  -    Area Roads Engineer
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
IDA  -    International Development Association
IMF  -    International Monetary Fund
MOW  -    Ministry of Works; Now Ministry of Works and Labor
OBM  _    Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
OED  -    Operations Evaluation Department
OPEC-    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR  -    Project Completion Report
PPAM-    Project Performance Audit Memorandum
UNDP-    United Nations Development Programme
VOC  -    Vehicle Operating Cost



FO  OFFiCIL WE ONLY
TIE WORtD BANK
Wash.ton. O.C. 30433
U.S.A.
O" d o ifectonl
Opmtii Iybjau
February 21, 1990
MRMORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone Second Highway
Prolect (Credit 1129-SL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone Second Highway Project
(Credit 1129-SL)v prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a red disributon and may be used by rcipnts ol in tho petformance
of their offcia dutie lts cotents may no otewis be disosed witbout World Dank auI oiun.



ri-ff H Q                                  '                          Q 
§.{ 3  l *0                         ........  0
0Sg ~     ~~~~                                       - S           
ts        p         .  .  .  .   .4. .4 .-  
j! ~~                  0      .0 .            
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O         
8                 w  w  w  P  P           P   <  *  -   g a-  .
*                         e~~~~~~.g



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LZONE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1129-SL)
PREFACE
This is a completion report for the Second Highway Project in
Sierra Leone for which Credit 1129-SL in the amount of US$10.0 million was
approved on April 7, 1981. IDA disbursements are currently suspended with
an undisbursed balance of approximately US$270,000. The credit is in the
process of being closed.
The PCR vas prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Western Africa Department, Africa Regional Office, and is based on the
Staff Appraisal Report, ..ie Credit Agreement, consultants' progress
reports, supervision reports, interview with Bank staff and the
correspondence files.
This PCR has been read by the Operations Evaluation Department.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on September 26, 1989.
No comments were received.



- 1± -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
SECWOND HIGIAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1129-8L)
RASIC DATA SHET
K5Y PRnJeT ATA
Item                                  Original             AcUal  or
Eapecetlon        Current Estimat
Total Ptrject Coot (uSt a lllo) l                   20.0                 20.0
CootOwr/Undrv  (1)                                                        O
Cott_ n91qdJm mi llion)                                                 12.9
WE Credit Amount                                    10.0                10.0
Disbursed (06/9)                                                     9.?
Cacoll ed-
Comlotien of Physi oa  Componete  (dat)          06/lo/64             06/60/6
Proportion AcuallY Complet  by above date M         t1
E..o..c RateIb   e Reurn ()                      Over 100                61
UAlTE ESTIMATED M ACTUAL DiisUen
(UIat mIIIon)
FY61   FY3_  FY       FM    FYN    F FS  FY79
Aprasl E.t         .01    2.0   6.2    6.9  19.0
Actul               0                     2.4   2.3    6.4   9.0    9.?   9.7
Actual or U
ofg tiset          0       0      0       27    8       64     0      07    0
011E3 PRJCT DATA
Act*al or
it.                        OriginAl  M          gdd      Current E*tlmat
Con_ovbloo DO"                                                    10/06/72
Negotiation                                                      02/17-19/81
Board Apprl ovtl   Crit
Credit Agro_sat Date                                               04/29/S1
Effeotivens.s Do                                                   101/20/1
Closing lDate Do                    1/4         06/0/             06/08/98
Borrot r                                                       Rep. of Si-erra Io_e
Executing Agenc                                                     . of S   orks
Follow-on ProJect                                              Preparition sue
I   cided co-flwaing of UM.9 0mllIfom tr  AD VW US?7.0 gillon frm the WEC Fu.
A  o dVeMy 22, I0, 1bout US?0,000 remained unisbus.



_ Ail -
MISSiO DATA ~
N  of      I).Ot. 
item           m../y.or    Persons  o  poltIs VNOan We.a              of Report
I1dmificat)on       06/74         1           E             0.5            06/28/74
Proratlo            12/US         1           H              1.0           12/80/76
Pr-apprelol         07/7          8         E, H, U          4.0           09/17/76
Pr-pprelal          06/77         2          E, m            S.6           07/15/77
APpraleal           10/77         S         E1 H, H          7.0           11/07/77
Re-appraisal        10179         5        0, H, 11          9.0           10/2/79
Poat-appr Iasi      05/00                   E, H, T         0.0            06/06/80
Sup.rvl.lon 1       10/61         2          E, H            2.0           11/09/81
SUWV)Slton 2        12/61         1           H             0.5            01/16/82
Sup.r.lbOa 3        02/o2         2          E, H            2.0           03/06/82
Sup.r't-lsoo 4      O6/B2         2          £, H            2.0           07/16/62
Supervtsion 6       09/82         2          E, H            5.5           11/01/62
SupervIglono        01/98         2          E, H            2.0           O2f/266
SupgroIgloo 7       0568          2          E, H            2.6           07/05/63
up.rvl.too S        06/63         8         E, H, F          2.0           091269/8
supervision 9       10/"          1           E              1.0           11/29/89
Supervision 10      02/64         1           H              0.5           03/06/64
Supervision 11      04/84         2          E, H            3.0           05/10/64
Supervision 12      07/64         2          E, H            2.0       06/10/84 06/28/64
Suprvial.on 18      11/04         1            E             1.0           12/07/6
Sup.rvIslop 14      02/65         1            E            0.6            08/19/65
Sup.rvitlon 15      06/65         1            E             2.0           07/11/65
Supervision 16      12/86         2          E, H           8.0            01/21/66
Soe"ve14l  1?       O-/6*5        I           £              1.5            M    ~ b
Superviseon 1      10/86         2          E, H            3.0           01/06/87
Supervilion 19      09/67         1            E             1.0           06/28/67
Supervision 20      06/66         I           H              1.0           10/20/U
wnlu&de. brief viatta for Which Supervisio reports soro not writSt.
E * Project Economists; Fe Ftnancal Analyst; Ha Highway Enginer;
0  Operatlons Offloarl M a Mlchdnleal Englier; T a Training ixpert;
U a Urban Transport Planning



FlIAl Year       n      7     74     75     7 S           78     79     60     81     82    88      *4    6e    se67           86      Trout
Pwp1raIe    0.4  0.0   20.9   7.4   11.8  82.1  18.7                   4.6    -                                  -            -     -    91.2
--- .o.a --            -     -      -      -      -      81.8   0.8    g8.9   20.8                                            -        16.4
Nqotibalon.           -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -.7                                              -                          -   -   6.7
2lprvilon    -         -     -      -- -          -      -      -              1.2  18.8  17.8  29.1  27.8   8.1 15.2  1.0  2.8  1217
O" _ - - - - - - - 0-…- - - - -  2
Totl           0.4    0.0  20.9   7.4    11.8  82.1  45.0   o.8    58.    27.8   18.8   17.8   29.1  27.3   18.1 15.2  1.9   2.8  82.9
c-



PROJECT CO)PLSTION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND SIGUVAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1129-SL)
EVALUATION SUMEARY
A.   Introduction
1.        Pollowing the completion of the First Higbway Project in January
1977, highway maintenance deteriorated because of a shortage of budgetary
funds for fuel, materials and spares. Preparation and appraisal of the
Second Highway Project took place over a six year period from 1974 to 1980.
Because of the lack of IDA funds, the credit vas not signed until October
1981, and it did not become effective until February 1982. There was,
therefore, a fLive year gap between the completion of the First Highway
Project and the availability of funds for the follow-up project (para
1.03).
2.        By 1980, at the time of the post-appraisal, the road system
totalled about 4,400 miles of which 764 miles were paved. The rematnder
were gavel at earth z:u:rfac. The network varied from good to poor, the
latter due to inadequate maintenance, growing traffic and heavy rainfall.
There was virtually no domestic road construction industry, and only one
foreign road building ecntractor established in the country. The MOW was
responsible for the ezecution of the project (para 1.04).
S.  Obiectives
3.        The objectives were i) Improve the output of the labor force;
iL) improve the efficiency of the MOW staif through technical assistance
and training; and iiL) support the country's agriculture development (para
2.19).
C.   Implementation Experience
4.        The physLcal works in the project were only about 55Z completed,
and there were long delays in esecution. Unfortunately, no institution
building results were achieved (para 8.01).
D.   Results
5.        A reevaluatLon of the resealed and regravelled roads indicates
an ERR of Just over 60 which is satisfactory (par& 4.01).



- vi -
6.        Performance of the project consultants was only fair while that
of the feasibility consultants was good (paras 5.01-5.10).
7.        The Borrower's performance was poor because of repeated credit
violations and lack of interest in carrying out the project. However,
progress Improved somewhat towards the eud of the project (paras 6.01-
6.02).
8.        The performance of the Association in preparing and supervising
the project was only fair (paras 7.01-7.08).
9.        The finacial plan which made each component dependant on two or
more sources of financing turned out to be impractical (para 8.06).
Findings and Lessons
10.       Lessons learned which should be basic to the design of any
follow-up road project in Sicrra Leone (but not necessarily elsewhere)
includes
(a) the need to establish a project executing agency which would be
free from day-to-day political influence;
(b) a project coordinator or manager should be appointed who is a
senior experienced highway engineer, and he should be insulated
from political pressure from the MOW and other Government
entities;
(c) provision should be made for adequate local currency funding to
be promptly paid into a special account;
(d) if co-donors are involved, funds should be pooled and not
allocated to specific works;
(e) provision should be made for an overseas procurement agent for
the purchase of imported spare parts and supplies:
(f) the consultants, the proposed coordinator or manager, and his
staff should be in the same officess
(g) steps should be taken to greatly reduce the high idle labor
force employed by MOW, this force should not be taken over by
the new highway entity;
(h) periodic maintenance work, and to the extent possible routine
maintenance, should be carried out by contractors rather than by
departmental forces;
(i) if roads are to be rehabilitated or rebuilt under a future
project, a specific list of roads should be agreed during
negotiations and included in the credit agreement;



_ vii -
(1) procurement decisions should be taken by the hlghway entity with
the active participation of its consultants, and with no
involvement on the part of the MOWs
(k) proposed supervision by IDA should be frequent, step-by-step
performance should be required as well defined action plan to be
agreed on at negotiations, and IMD management should be prepared
to intervene promptly to resolve executing problems. (The
establishment of a strong resident mission would be of great
assistance, particularly with regard to ensuring the provision
of adequate local currency funding).
SUSTAINABILITY
11.      Benefits from the resealing and regravelling component will
be sustainable over the project's economic life, conservatively
estimated to cover 9 years after completion (PCR, para. 4.01). The
flow of benefits from the modest development of a road maintenance
capacity (PCR, paras. 6.01-6.04) seems uncertain because of limited
government commitment and problems with management, labor and finance
(PCR, para. 8.08).



- I -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIEURR LEONE
SECOND HIOWAY PROJECT
(CRCDIT 1129-SL)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The above project has been the second for highways in Sierra
Leones no other transport projects were financed. The First Highway
Project (Lown 710/Credit 218 SL. US$7.2 million, 1971) was for road
construction and a first phase of road maintenance. Tho First Project was
based on a MNDP-finiaced study which recommended that the unprofitable
Sierra Leone Railway from Freetown to Peadembu (228 mi) be closed and that
it be replaced by highways. The Rallway was closed, but its replacement by
highways was slow and is still not completad, resulting in the isolation of
some communities.
1.02      The main road from So to Kenema (43 km) which parallel the old
railway line was built under the First Highway Project despite esa-lated
costs which necessitated a supplementary loan of US$2.3 aillion In 1975 to
finance the overrun. The maintenance component of that project was even
less successful and only part of the maintenance works were comploted
because of: (a) a shortage of funds for fuel, oil lubricants and spares;
(b) diversion of equipment to other work agencies; (c) frequent
subordination of matenauce to construction; and (d) personel problems in
the Ministry of Works (MOW).
1.03      Following the completion of the First Uighway Project in January
1977, highway maintenance deteriorated because of a shortage of budgetary
funds for fuel, materials and spares. Preparation and appraisal of the
Second Highway Project took place over a six year period from 1974 to 1980
as discussed below. Because of the lack of IDA funds, the credit was not
signed until October 1981, and it did not become effective until February
1982. There was, therefore, a five year gap between the completion of the
First Highway Project and the availability of funds for the follow-up
project.
1.04      By 1980, at the time of the post-appraisal, the road system
totalled about 4,400 miles of which 764 miles were paved. The remainder
were gravel or earth surfaced. The network varied from good to poor, the
latter due to inadequate maintenance, growing traffic and heavy rainfall.
There was virtually no domestic roed construction industry, and only one
foreign road building contrsctor established in the country. The MOW was
responsible for the execution of the project.
1.05      This report is based on informetion available in Bank files,
including supervision and consultant reports, and interviews with Bank
staff formerly involved with the project.



- 2 .
It.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation
2.01      The identification, preparation and final appraisal of the
project took plece over a period of six years. In 1972, the original
concept of the project, based on the Government's priority, called for the
reconstruction of the Vaterloo-Freetown road (20.5 miles). This was the
main link between the western end of the city and the trunk road network
up-country. The road presented difficult problems for the Bank because of
its high cost and urban implications at the Freetown end.
2.02      A study of the Waterloo-Freetown road was financed by the United
Nations Development Programse (UNDP) under Bank supervision. However,
because of the complexity of the urban problems  the Bank and the
Government were unable to agree on the scope, length, and location of the
urban part which was to link the road to the port of Freetown and the
central business district. The construction of the rural part of the road
was later carried out with flnancing by the Federal Republic of Germany.
Eventually, Germany also financed part of the urban section but it stopped
short of providing improved access to the port and the city center.
Traffic was at times greatly slowed through the narrow streets of the
center of Freetown, however, it has recently improved when market stalls,
which partially blocked the main street were removed and parking
restricted.
2.03      The UNDP financing further included technical assistance for a
highway organization and maintenance study by the same consultants who
supervised the maintenance component under the First Highway Project. The
consultants proposed a reconstruction and maintenance project, with a total
cost estimated at US$50 million. which was considered too ambitious by the
Bank. The Bank was also concerned over the MOV's limited skilled manpower
and technical resources, the lack of local road contractors, and the
country's worsening economlc situation. The consultants were asked to
reduce the project's scope in the light of prevailing conditions.
2.04      The project was pre-appraised in July 1976, but the Bank and the
Government were unable to reach agreement on the project's scope and cost
because of its large size. The lank concluded that the project should be
reformulated with the Government's financial constraints in mind, and a
second pre-appraisal was carried out in June 1977. Agreement was reached
on the content and scope of the project; however, the tentative cost
estimate was still considered to be high, amounting to US$30 million net of
taxes and duties.
Appraisal
2.05      The proposed project was appraised in October 1977.  According
to the Issues Paper of November 7, 1977, it was to consist of a four-year
maintenance program providing for: (a) routine and periodic maintenance
for all primary and secondary roads, and priority feeder roads, totalling
about 2,500 mi; and (b) reconstruction of about 150 mi of rural roads to
paved standard. The total project costs, net of taxes, amounted to US$27.5



million, of which the foreign component was US$16.7 million (61X). Two co_
donors indicated an interest in co-financing the project. The project was
tentatively scheduled for Board Presentation in July 1978.
2.06      The most important issue discussed at the Decision Meeting was
the recent commitment of the Government to a short-term supplier's credit
of US$10.9 million for an oil jetty plus two additional credits, despite
its undertakings to the IMF, the Paris Club and the Bank Group, that no new
loans would be contracted.  It was agreed that the Bank would continue
processing the project and that clarification would be sought on the
implications of the suppliers' credits in the light of the Government's
comaitment that no new loans would be contracted.  Other issues included
the scope and cost of the project, the use of co-financing, and the
financing of part of recurrent costs under the project. Concern was
expressed at the meeting as to the Government's ability to meet its
financial obligations under the project. It was agreed at the meeting that
responsibility for project implementation should be given to a separate
Highway Maintenance Unit (1M0) to be established in the MOW. The EMU would
have its own staff and accounts. All new equipment to be procured under
the project would be for the exclusive use of HKW on road maintenance, to
avoid the problem of equipment diversion which occurred under the First
Highway Project. The establishment of the EMU was to be a condition of
negotiations.
2.07      During a visit to Washington of a Government delegation in
February 1978, the Bank stated that *It would not be justified to negotiate
a credit of this order to magnitude unless there were clear signs of
improvement in the Government's management of the economy and, in
particular, that appropriate steps had been taken to reschedule the
country's unmanageable external debt." An IDA economic follow-up mission
was scheduled to visit Freetown in March 1978 to assess recent economic
developments. However, the mission was delayed until fall and the issue
was not resolved until the following year (para 2.09).
2.08      A memorandum dated February 10, 1989, attached to the Yellow
Cover Staff Appraisal Report, recomuended that a decision be made as soon
as possible after the economic mission's return as to whether or not to
proceed with the project, since the consequences of a delay would be
serious. Project costs would increase because of rapid deterioration of
the roads system and there was some doubt as to whether the interest of the
present co-financiers could be maintained.
Re-appraisal
2.09      Following agreement between the Government and the IMF on
country economic issues, the Bank sent a re-appraisal mission to Sierra
Leone in October 1979. Because of staff transfers, the staff of the re-
appraisal mission was completely changed from the original appraisal team
two years earlier. The main reason for the re-appraisal was to scale down
the project scope to make it consistent with available external financing
of US$12.0 million from IDA, plus two components totalling US$5.0 million
for possible co-financing. The mission was instructed to "design a minimum
project.*



-4-
2.10      In the Follow-up Issues Paper of October 29, 1979, several major
issues were identified. First, the creation of an EMU outside the existing
structure of the MOW was questioned. Second, the proposed equipment
purchases had to be reviewed because during the period the project was held
up. the Government had coammtted itself to equipment purchases on
additional suppliers' credits of US$20 million which far surpassed the
estimated amount of equipment needed. Some of the equipment ordered was
considered unsuitable for economic highway mauintenance, especially a large
order for pavero. Third, there was a need to create a special account for
highwy maintenance to ensure the availability of sufficient funds and
avoid diversion of scarce budgetary resources from urgently needed road
maintenance to construction.
2.11      The re-appraisal mission recomended that the EMU concept be
abandoned in favor of direct implementation by the MOW for three major
reasons. First, the management of the MOW had changed since 1977, and the
need for isolating the project from the former management had seemingly
disappeared. Second, the Professional Head (Chief Engineer) of the MOW and
his deputy were strongly opposed to such a parallel institution and
expected major institution-building benefits from the proposed project.
Third, the effect the project would have on maintenance of the equipment
fleet of MOW was expected to be greater than in the HMU alternative, which
the mission believed did not address this problem adequately. The mission
felt that the increased implementation risks from the now proposed solution
were less important than the potential extra benefit that institution-
building would bring to the new professional management of the OW.
However, the management of the MOW changed again shortly after
negotiations.
2.12      The road reconstruction component was eliminated from the
project for lack of funds. The mission recommended that the resealing
component be carried out by contract rather than by departmental forces,
and that the undelivered portion of the ordered equipment be cancelled or
altered. The mission concluded that if the Government reacted favorably to
the Bank's proposed revisions to the project, a follow-up mission should be
sent to Sierra Leone to finish up project definition, including
identification of the training needs in the MOW.
2.13      In a reply dated November 30, 1979, the HOW indicated that it
did not agree with the Bank's conclusion that resurfacing of bituminous
roads be carried out by contract. The MOW also stated that it was not
possible to make any changes with respect to the equipment not yet
delivered. The Government felt compelled to make arrangements to purchase
highway equipment during the period when the Bank Group was unable to move
forward with processing the project which was originally appraised in 1977.
2.14      A Supplementary Decision Memorandum issued on January 9, 1980,
reviewed the background issue as detailed above. The changes proposed in
the project were accepted. it was agreed that the order of eight pavers by
the Governmont presented the most serious problem as it was far beyond the
country's need, or its ability to finance the operating costs. Efforts to
have the Government cancel all or part of the order, or negotiate a switch
to other equipment were unsuccessful. The cost of the modified project,



net of taxes and duties, but including contingencies, was estimated at
US$17.6 million with a foreign ezchange cost of US$13.4 million (76Z).
Post-awpraisal
2.15      The post-appraisal took place in May 1980.  The project had been
designed as much as possible around ezisting Government equipment,
particularly the recent equipment purchase. However, the HOW indicated
that it intended to reserve a considerable portion of that equipment for
use on other activities outeide the project. A compromise was reached
which increased the amount of equipment to be purchased under the project
by US$1.0 million.  The OPEC Fund had offered to co-finance resealing of
paved roads.  These changes in co-financiag arrangements allowed the Bank
to re-introduce the periodic maintenance of gravel roads into the project.
2.16      Agreement was also reached on the Government's contribution to
recurrent costs and the establishment of a local currency Special Account
which was to be funded from the national budget. the concept of having the
project finance highway engineers attached to the civil service to as3ist
the Area (regional) Engineers, who had many other duties besides roads, was
reviewed and agreed upon. This concept was later questioned in the Bank on
the grounds that employing engineers in the civil service to be paid wage
rates higher thau the engineers to whom they reported could create
discontent and further lower the morale among MOW staff, but finally it was
accepted.
2.17      In November, one of the proposed co-donors (para 2.05) withdrew.
Bank staff immediately contracted the African Development Fund (ADF) which
agreed to finance the equipment component of the project. The change in
the financing plan and the need to revise project documents, further
delayed negotiations. In December 1980, the Bank recommended a feasibility
study of the Kenema-Koindu road (83 mi) which would parallel the abandoned
railway at the eastern end of the country. The study was to be financed by
the UNDP with the Bank acting as executing agent. The detailed engineering
of that road, if justified, was to be financed under the Second Highway
Project.
2.18      Negotiations took place in Washington in February, 1981.  The
projects division was represented by two staff members newly assisted to
the project. The Sierra Leone delegation confirmed that the Government has
appointed a project coordinator and that a Special Account had been opened
with an initial deposit of Le 600,000. Agreement was also reached on the
list of equipment to be provided to the project by the Government as
*           reflected In the Credit Agreement. The delegation also asked that the six
positions for highway engineers in the MOW included under the project be
filled, if possible, with Sierra Leonean engineers; this was also agreed.
Proiect Obiectives
2.19      The objectives of the project were tos L) increase the output of
the overstaffed labor force by adding light mechanized units, and by
issuing funds to output them; ii) improve the uprising of the HOW staff



through technical assistance and training; and iii) support the country's
agricultural development by helping to pressure the main link between
Freetown and the provinces, and by rehabilitating the gravel truck roads
linking the provinces (chief towns) to their hinter land.
Proiect Description
2.20      The project included the following elements:
(a) planning and implementing routine maintenance by force account
on the entire road network (about 4,400 miles);
(b) resealing by contract of about 200 miles of paved roads;
(c) rehabilitating by force account of about 370 miles of gravel
roads; and
(d) providing consulting services to train MOW's staff and to assist
in improving the efficiency of road maintenance operations and
to prepare a second phase of the maintenance program Including a
study of the domestic contracting industry, and to prepare
detailed engineering studies.



- 7 -
III. PROJECT DMPLEMENTATION
Prolect Start-up
3.01      Two problems were identified by the first supervision mission
early in October 1981 which would reappear repeatedly during the execution
of the project. Firstly, part of the Government equipment which was to be
available for the maintenance program was beginning to wear out due to the
long delay between project identification and implementation, and the MOW
showed considerable reluctance to hand over equipment which was still in
operating condition. Secondly, while the Government had opened the Special
Account to serve as a revolving fund (para 2.18), it had not put any funds
in the Account.
3.02      The mechanical consultant recommerded against using the existing
MOW central workshop located In the center of Freetown because of lack of
space, difficulties in transporting heavy equipment through the city
center, security problems and the fact that the shop was being used for
private work as well as the non-road operations of the MOW. He recommended
esta'lishing a project workshop which would avoid the above problems. A
Government-owned warehouse and yard in Kissy on the outskirts of the city,
were designated for the purpose, and the proposal was eventually accepted
by all parties concerned.
3.03      The consultant team was fully mobilized by the beginning of
1982. Their first task was to prepare an Inception Report which would take
into account Ci) that during the two-year period from the appraisal to
project start-up, the country's road system had deteriorated further due to
lack of maintenance; (ii) the HOW's equipment had aged; and (iii) the
shortage of local budgetary funding was becoming more critical as the
economy deteriorated. After some delays because of staffing problems
experienced by the consultants, a Draft Inception Report was circulated in
August 1982. According to the September 1982 Bank supervision mission,
which joined up with an ADF supervision mission, "the Inception Report was
comprehensive and well prepared, and provided a detailed plan of action.'
It was generally well received by all parties concerned.
3.04      The start of actual road maintenance however, faced difficulties
because MOW was not prepared to make available all the equipment which it
had agreed to provide. During the two-year delay between appraisal and
approval of the credit, part of the equipment had worn out, and the MOW was
using some of the equipment on private work. It seemed pointless to accept
equipment which was beyond economic repair as repairing it would only waste
time and money. In mid-1982, MOW gave the consultants a reduced list of
equipment it would make available which the consultants used as a basis for
the program proposed in the Inception Report, and in September 1982,
ordered it to be delivered to the Kissy workshop. The consultants started
to evaluate it and determine rehabilitation neteds and spare parts
requirements to be financed by ADF. It became evident that the Area
(regional) Offices were holding back good equipment and in some cases
sending in equipment with missing components and needing major repairs.
Less than half the original list of equipment was ever turned over to the



- 8 -
project, including only half of the 15 tipper trucks promised, of which
only four were operational.
3.05      The consultants recommended the purcbase of certain additional
items of equipment under the AD? financing which were needed to effectively
use the existing equipment and proposed two options for consideration. The
first represented an emrgency order of about US$0.5 million which would
allow the MOW to start up maintenance in one of two pilot areas to be used
for the initial road maintenance training effort. The second option would
involve an emergency equipment order of US$1.0 million which would permit a
start up of maintenance on a limited scale throughout the country. The
first option was finally selected on the basis of ADF's preference. The
consultants also prepared lists of spare parts required for the
rehabilitation of the available equipment.
3.06      The Bank, in a telex dated Novembber 5, 1982 to the Ministers of
Pinance and Works, indicated that the Inception Report was acceptable and
provided a satisfactory basis for project implementation. The Bank pointed
out that it would be impossible to implement the project unless the
Government took action tot (a) contribute ths amount of equipment
specified In the Inception Report, which was a further reduction to that
previously agreed on; and (b) promptly replenished the Special Account, to
provide a reliable and timely source of operating funds. Despite this and
similar communications to the Government over the life of the project, the
MOW continued to keep most of its operational equipment on private work.
It repeatedly took back some of its equipment contribution to the project,
often returning it in damaged condition, and frequently delayed
replenishing the Special Account.
3.07      The Inception Report proposed two alternatives for carrying out
the regravelling programs by departmental forces as envisaged by the
project, or to contract out the supply of gravel leaving M0W forces to
place and compact it. The latter proposal was discarded in view of the
MOl's wish to build up its own capacity. The consultants proposed a list
of roads to be regravelled under the project, which was accepted by the
Government. In late 1983, IDA recomended that regravelling be carried out
by contract, because it had become clear that MOW lacked the capacity to do
it by force account. MOW reluctantly agreed to the change and the Credit
Agreement was changed accordingly.
Maintenance Component
3.08      The maintenance component was by far the most difficult to
implement because it involved building up a basic maintenance organization
within $01. Other than some work done by the training brigade, routine
road maintenance did not get underway until late 1984. The late start was
caused by shortages of local funds; delays in ordering equipment, spare
parts and workshop tools; and earlier mentioned difficulties in handing
over Governmeat owned equipment. In late 1983, it was becoming very
difficult to procure spare parts in Sierra Leone and IDA agreed with HOW
that an account would be established with a procurement agent in London to
enable direct foreign purchase of spare parts and some materials. In spite
of complaints about long delivery times, this procurement system proved
invaluable to the project. When fuel became difficult to obtain In Sierra



- 9 -
Leone, consideration was given to offshore procurement but the idea was
rejected because of the difficulties to control MOW's fuel supply,
especially in case of severe country-wide shortages. The MOW further
recognized the workshop constraints and agreed with AD? that major
equipment overhaul would be done by local dealers.
3.09      In October 1984, ADF suspended disbursements because of arrears
in service payments. The result was that the spare parts for equipment
rehabilitation did not become available and new equipment, some of it
already in Freetown, was not delivered until the dealers received full
payment. Dealers also postponed equipment overhaul until they received
payment.  IDA agreed to finance additional spare parts so that mLaor
equipment overhaul could proceed in the MOW workshop at Kissy. The
workshop was subject to many constraints. Management of the workshop was
weak, mechanics lacked skills and experience and their attendance record
was poor. MOW made several attempts to improve the situation by replacing
staff, however, the situation remained difficult because of Inadequate
transport to the workshop and rapidly eroding salaries. Further
constraints consisted of irregular arrival of spare parts because of
failures to order in a timely manner, and long delivery times despite the
use of an overseas procurement agent; late arrival of workshop tools; and
the lack of progress in completing the workshop facilities. The latter
problems were largely due to the disbursement suspension by ADZ which was
to finance this part, and slow action by MOW and the consultants in finding
Interim solutions. Security of the workshop became serious in 1986, at
which time the MOW insisted that it be transferred to the MOW facilities
downtown. However, it was finally agreed with InA that the transfer would
be determined by the organization study (pars 4.03).
3.10      Towards the end of the project, progress improved but at the
most, not more than a third of the originally intended road mileage was
being covered. It appears that this was partially due to overly optimLstic
estimates made at the time of appraisal, but lack of efficiency of the road
maintenance organization also played an important role. A major weakness
concerns the organization itself. Neither the structure nor the lines of
command were clearly defined and there was often political interference.
Another problem was that until late 1984 practically no mechanical
equipment was available. The new equipment did not become available until
1985 when ADF made the remaining low because of the limited repair
capacity. Mechanical maintenance was further handicapped by shortages of
fuel for the operation of vehicle and equipment.
3.11      Manual maintenance which covered primarily shoulder clearing,
pavement patching and clearing of culverts started in 1985, upon delivery
of new hand tools, and transport of workers by truck to the worksite could
generally be provided. Furthermore, overseers and foremen were provided
with bicycles and motorcycles to supervise the work. Motivation of the
labor force remained low because of the serious decline in purchasing power
of wages, and payment delays which often amounted to 2-3 months. In spite
of these problems, results improved over the progress made durLig the early
years of project execution.



- 10 _
Resealing Co onent
3.12      This component was to cover the resealing of about 200 mi of
roads. Roads which needed rehabilitation were excluded because it was
decided that resealing would yLeld the highest benefits by preserving the
investment and avoiding much higher reconstruction costs a few years later.
At various stages and especially in 1983, the Government made top-level
efforts to persuade the Bank to include roads which needed partial
reconstruction. Finally, a list of roads was agreed on which additional
funding for rehabilitation work to be made available from the detailed
engineering component which had been cancelled (para 3.22).
3.13      Contractors were prequalified In accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and contractors, all foreign, submitted bids.
However, the MOW also solicited a bid from a foreign contractor working in
Sierra Leone who had not been prequalified. Since the contractor was
amongst the highest bidders and no procedural complaints were received, the
problem resolved itself and the bid was simply ignored. The Government
then created another difficult problem in recommending the award to the
second lowest evaluated bidder. The Bank refused to concur with the
Government's selection and insisted on award to the lowest evaluated
bidder, as recommended by the consultants. Finally, the contract was
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in May 1984. The contract price was
well below the consultant's estimate and the amount of the OPZC loan
available for this component.
3.14      Work did not get underway until October 1984 because of heavy
monsoon rains. Start up was slow but by mid-1985 work was over 702
completed and only about a month behind schedule. Because more extensive
rehabilitation was needed than originally foreseen, contract quantities
increased substantially. Initially the contractor's progress was very good
but later delays occurred due to fuel shortages, and cash flow problems.
These and the extra work caused the contract to be extended from mid-
December 1985 to early 1987. The contractor's cash flow problems were
caused by the fact that the OPEC Pund, had suspended disbursements in
October 1984, because the Government ceased to make service payments. In
April 1987, the contractor's payment arrears amounted to about US$2.5
million and he suspended work indefinitely.
3.15      The May 1987 supervision mission recmmended to the Government
that it cancel the remainder of the contract, because of delays in
reimbursing the contractors. A total of 133 miles of paved roads were
rehabilitated/resealed out of the planned 200 miles (66X). The average per
km cost was about US$21,400 as compared with the SA estimate of US$29,500.
A resealed road section inspected during 1988, after two years service was
found in good condition, except few bleeding spots mainly due to excess
bitumen applied while patching the road prior to resealing. A few potholes
have started to develop on short sections of the road.
Regravellina Component
3.16      Some road sections, due to the implementation delays, were in
need of rehabilitation instead of just regravelling. ADF funds were made
available be eliminating the new equipment intended for regravelling, and



- 11 -
IDA reallocated funds from other categories (para 3.12). The bidding
process suffered some delays because on several occasions MOW proposed
changes in the list of roads to be included. In a telex dated January 30,
1984, the MOW proposed that bids would only be requested from contractors
who had been requalified for the resealing component. Both IDA and the ADF
accepted this arrangement. Subsequently, the MOW asked that the list of
contractors to be invited include the contractor which was not prequalified
but had bid for three resealing component. The Bank objected because
adding one firm would be unfair to other potential bidders and indicated
that the MOW either had to accept the original list or advertise for
separate prequalification, with a resulting delay. The MOW eventually
conceded. Bids were opened in August 1984 and the two contracts were
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, which was the same contractor as
for the resealing component.
3.17      The contract for Tranche I was signed in March 1985.  Work
proceeded without special problems and the contract was completed on
schedule. The quality of the work was good. The start of the Tranche II
regravelling contract was delayed because of ADF's disbursements for
Tranche II were made. on September 18, 1985 ADP telexed to "proceed
without further delay with the regravelling contract.' Upon instruction
from HOW, the contractor mobilized and started work. However by July 1986
neither the advance payment nor any subsequent payments had been made by
AD?, and the contractor informed MOW of his intention to cancel the
contract by September 1986 it no payments were made. Finally two payments
were made by ADF about a year after the advance payment had become due, but
subsequently payments stopped again. At first the contractor made god
progress, but then gradually delays started because of equipment
breakdowns, since as a result of payment arrears equipment had not been
overhauled.
3.18      A total of 225 miles of gravel roads have been regravelled out
of the originally planned 370 miles (70Z). IDA financed 120 miles of
regravelling at a total cost of Le 7.7 million out of which US$2.6 million
was disbursed from the credit funds. The AD? financed the balance of 135
miles at a total cost of Le 9.5 million. In 1988, an inspection made on a
37 mlle of a regraveled section of road found that it was standing up, but
needed routine maintenance.
Institution Building and Training
*           3.19      The project has not resulted in any improvement in MOW's
institutional performance. The project as finally agreed had no specific
targets for improving the implementing institution, and the introduction of
the consultants' Area Roads Engineers (ARE), whose task in practice ran
parallel to the responsibilities of MOW's own area engineers, was counter
productive. When, during an IDA supervision mission in 1984 it wes
concluded that this system did not contribute to making road maintenance an
integrated task of the MOW, the ARE's were phased out. In order to be able
to organize road maintenance under a follow-on highway project so that it
will become more efficient and independent, an organization and management
study financed by the UNDP had been carried out.  The study recommended the
establishment of a semi-autonomous Highway Authority.



- 12 -
3.20      The consultants' training  specialist spent 15 months in Sierra
Leone during the early part of the project. The low start of the project
and especially the lack of on the job training resulted in a reduced
effectivenese of the training effort. Subsequently, the highway engineer
on the consultnt's team was continuous training but, because of the many
problem to resolve, it became a rather secondary effort. In the workshop
mechanics received some practical training. Seen in retrospect, the
training effort was unsatisfactory, as it seems that all available efforts
had to be concentrated on the mere survival of the project.
Studies
3.21      Because of the serious constraints on the project, the number of
studies was reduced. The study on the local contracting industry concluded
that there was virtually no locally-owned road contracting capacity
available in Sierra Leone. Moreover, under the very uncertain economic
conditions of the country, the continuity of financing for road work which
is needed to establish a viable contracting industry, would not exist for
some time. It is intended, however, to pursue the matter under a follow-
on highway project. An accounting study was completed which aimed at
introducing a cost accounting system.  Its recoeendations, however, were
not implemented because with regravelling done by contract and road
maintenance covering a much smaller scope than envisaged, it did not seem
worthwhile. This view was enforced by the generally low implementation
capacity of MOW and the severe shortage of qualified accounting staff.
The Feasibility Study
3.22      The UNDP-financed consultants submitted their draft feasibility
study on the Kenema-Koindu Road (para 2.17) late in 1982, and following
receipt of Bank and MOW comments, the final report was circulated in
February 1983. The report met the requirements of the terms of reference
and substantially took into account the comments submitted earlier. IDA
concluded that the economic return for the proposed road was marginal
because of low traffic potential and that construction of the road would
not be eligible for financing. Other road projects, such as more resealing
and regravelling, showed much higher rates of return. Thus, it was decided
not to proceed with the detailed engineering part of the project. Project
funds earmarked for the detailed engineering were eventually used on other
project components.
Disbursements
3.23      Because of the long delays in carrying out the project,
disbursements lagged the appraisal estimate by over three years. These
delays, along with frequent supervision of disbursements necessitated
extending the consultants' contract and slowed down physical progress. As
a result, about US$4.78 mlllion was disbursed for consultancy fees as
compared to the US$2.19 million allocated for this component in Schedule 1
of the Credit Agreement.



- i3 -
IV. tCONO0IC REEVALUATION
4.01      A rough reevaluatlon has been carried out on the resealing and
rogravel Lng components. The ERR of just over 60S (Table 1) is
substantially lower than the appraisal estimate of over 100l, but it still
is an Impressive rate. In spite of the many problems which beset the
project, the resealing and regravelling works, both major project
components, were carried out by the contractor essentially on a reasonable
schedule and with due efficiency. These works have had a major impact on
the reducing transport costs. The consultants have indicated that traffic
on the roads which were regravelled has doubled, while for the resealed
roads, traffic increased by 302 to 402.
4.02      Construction costs were derived from the project consultant's
Interim Report dated February 1987. Vehicle operating cost data (Table 2)
was obtained from the Conusultants' final Report of November 1988 (pg. 78).
Maintenance costs were ignored since this would apply in both the with and
without situations. The base year for both construction costs and benefits
taken for the analysis is 1986. No benefits were taken In the first year
although 40S of the work was carried out in that period. Benefits have
been phased conservatively over a 9 year life from completion of the works.
It was assumed that the roads would deteriorate progressively over their
estimated life, thus reducing benefits.
V. CONSULTANTS' AND CONTRACTORS' PERFORMANCE
5.01      The task of the project consultants consisted of preparation and
supervision of the civil works contracts; technical assistance and on-
the-job training for MOW routine maintenance staff; and several studies.
Even though the consultants made a substantial contribution, their overall
performance was not satisfactory. Some staff were not suitable for their
tasks; there were frequent staff changes; some ataff were underemployed but
the consultants did not suggest staff cutbacks; and during the first year
of the project, the consultants' headquarters supervision was erratic.
Obviously, working conditions were difficult. Initially, some of MOW's
senior staff seemed to be reluctant to accept the involvement of the
consultants in the execution of the project which affected the latter's
morale. In the later phase of the project, however, MOW learned to
generally appreciate their services.
5.02      The consultants got off to a poor start by setting up offices
several miles away form the MOW. Lack of space in the MOW was cited as the
reason for establishing the consultants outside its premises; more effort
on the part of all involved in the project might have resolved this problem
at an earlier date. The consultants' offices were moved into the HOW
compound in late 1983.
5.03      The first project manager was unsuitable and had to be replaced
shortly after project start-up. The second project manager was a competent
engineer but he was dismissed by the Minister of Works half way through the
project, without cause. The third project manager never fully came to



- 14 -
grips with the project; he ultimately left because of health problems. The
fourth project manager, was promoted form his earlier position as highway
engineer. His performance was good.
5.04      The mechanical staff of the consultants changed at least five
times. Only one stayed until the end of his contract and two others left
early. During the second half of the project, the mechanical staff made a
substantial contribution in managing the workshop and did some training of
local mechanical staff. During the early years of the project, the
mechanical engineers and chief mechanic seemed to lack initiatl  e and, for
example, two years after the start of their work, the consultants had not
yet tested local mechanics and classified their skills. During that
period, the mechanical staff was grossly under-employed. The project
showed the need for more flexible consultants's contracts where staff (e.g.
the mechanical engineer) would visit the job only when their services are
really needed.
5.05      Supervision of the civil works contracts was generally
satisfactory but also suffered from numerous staff changes. The studies
were completed in an adequate manner. However, for both the construction
industry study and the accounting study, the consultants had considerable
difficulties in finding suitable staff.
5.06      The concept as outlined in the staff appraisal report, for the
Area Road Engineers (AREs) provided by the consultants to the MOW to act as
line staff. ran into the problem that had been anticipated in the Bank
during the preparation of the project (para 2.16). The idea of giving them
line responsibility was counterproductive, they should have only assisted
the area engineers who should have remained responsible. Furthermore, the
fact that the AREs were provided with automobiles and given a higher salary
than their superiors created administrative problems. The entire concept
was abandoned in late 1984.
5.07      The staff appraisal report assumed that the AREs, although
preferably Sierra Leoneans, would have to be recruited from abroad. The
credit provided foreign currency for this cost, and the consultants'
contract was set up on that basis. However, the consultants, through their
local partners, managed to locate Sierra Leonean engineers within the
country and paid them in local currency. Nevertheless, under their
contract, the consultants were reimbursed partly in foreign currency for
the costs of these engineers. IDA insisted on a contract amendment to
reduce the heavy foreign expenditures for the AREs which was reluctantly
agrred to by the consultants. In 1986, before approving a further addendum
to the consultants' contract, IDA requested a full explanation of foreign
and local cost charges for all local staff paid under the contract.
5.08      Because of the many delays which took place, the consultants'
contract was extended from a period of three years to the end of 1988. The
man-months worked was greatly increased during project execution, raising
the amount of the IDA credit used for consultants form about 252 to almost
502. Much of this increase, and the resulting higher cost, must be
attributed to delays in project execution caused by the Government and, in
particular, the MOW.



- 15 -
3.09      One of the causes for the often unsatisfactory performance by
the consultants was that most of their staff on the project vas
specifically recruited for the project, and were not well known to the
firm. In addition, during the first years of the project, the consultants
head office supervision was poor with four to five different supervisors
visiting the project. At IDA's request this was changed and one supervisor
form the consultants headquarters was charged with the task.
5.10      The performance of the feasibility consultants was good; they
carried out their assignment on schedule and wee responsive to the Bank's
and the borrower's comments on their draft reports. An African-owned
contractor was successful in winning both the resealing contract and the
two contracts for regravelling. his work was generally satisfactory.
VI. THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
6.01      The Government and in particular the MOW never fully recognized
that agreements, which they had negotiated with IDA, had to be adhered to
unless modified by mutual consent. Throughout the project, but especially
during the early years, project implementation suffered from violations of
the credit covenants, lack of interest on the part of the MOW in carrying
out the project implementation. Initially, project activities were
hampered by shortages of local funds as the covenant stipulating that funds
were available in the Special Account was not complied with.
6.02      In 1984 the Ministry of Finance started to take a special
interest in the project, and local funding improved to such an extent that
in the later years sufficient local funds were available in spite of the
desperate economic situation of the country. IDA disbursements were
suspended on numerous occasions .ecause service payments to IDA had not
been made on time. Until mid 1987 these suspensions did not last long and
had little effect on the project. However, for the same reasons, the OPEC
fund and ADF had to suspend disbursements form 1984 onwards, which caused
substantial delays and inefficient execution of the project.
6.03      In accordance with the credit agreement, the MOW was to appoint
one of their staff as project coordinator. Two competent engineers held
this position; the staff first was dismissed in early 1984 by the Minister
of Works. At times project implementation was, however, negatively
affected by ministerial intervention with details of project execution and
because sometimes, as a result of MOW's structure, the immediate superiors
of the project coordinator were insufficiently familiar with highway work.
the lack of discipline within MOW has resulted in equipment diversion to
other tasks, unpunished absenteeism of staff, and theft at the workshop.
6.04      Latterly, the project had a positive influence on the
Government's attitude towards road maintenance. Initially, officials
seemed to be disinterested and sometimes uncooperative, feeling that IDA's
rules were an unwarranted interference. Once, however, the project's
results became visible in the form of better roads, the attitude became
generally very positive. It will also be a matter of highest priority to



- 16 -
reduce MOW's staff which increased fonm about 15,000 in 1982 to almost-
20,000 in 1986.
VIZ. TEE ASSOCIATION'S PERFORMWNCE
7.01      The sir year preparation form identification to appraisal,
requiring two pre-appraisals and three appraisals was too long and too
costly in terms of staff time. This was caused in part by IDA's
indecisiveness as it vacillated from one project design to another. Thus
the project concept, scope and financing plan had to be changed repeatedly
against the background of a rapidly declining economy and the steady
deterioration of the road system. Lack of IDA funds caused a further delay
of six months. The result was that the project design was always out of
phase with the country's needs and implementation capacity. It is
understandable that the long preparation delays created uncertainty, and
perhaps contributed to Government's lack of enthusiasm. At one stage
during project preparation In 1977, the Government entered into ill-
considered contracts for the supply of equipmaent that it did not need
because it believed that IDA had abandoned the project. Soe delays in
preparation occurred because IDA did not bave urban Projects staff
available to look into urban problems of the Waterloo-Freetown road (paras
2.01-2.02). But, continuation of road maintenance was more urgent than
construction, so it was unfortunate that IDA let itself be diverted from
what should have been the top priority.
7.02      At least five teams of IDA highway engineers and economists
worked on the project during the 16 years between identification and
completion. These staffing changes, which were above the norm, caused some
problems in the consistency of IDA's approach and contributed to delays,
during the preparation phase. In three cases, both members of the project
team were changed at the same time; some overlap of experieaced and newly-
assigned staff would have been desirable. From 1985 to 1987, no engineer
was assigned to the project and four different engineers joined the project
officer, each only on a single supervision mission.
7.03      IDA acted as executing agency for the OPEC Fund, while ADF
retained full responsibility for the work it financed. The ADF's
supervision was infrequent and only a few joint supervision missions could
be scheduled. As far as is known, there have been no AD? project
supervision missions since April 1984. IDA has closely supervised the
project, averaging almost four supervision visits a year during its
executLon and, in practice also carried out much of the field supervision
of the AD? component.
7.04      The original concept of the project was too ambitious ad beyond
MOV's capacity. The project was ill-covered with respect to the Area
Engineers and fai_ed to deal with the bloated MOV workforce. It would
appear that some of the lessons learned from the First Bighway Project were
not heeded, particularly the lack of Government support experienced at that
time. The project came too late to salvage parts of the trunk road system
which had received little maintenance over the past two decades. The
Government, however, could have avoided this situation, if all the



- 17 -
resources available to the MOW would had been used to maintain the highvay
system. Instead funds were spent on new construction, an oversize, and
idle labor force that absorbed most of the MOW budget, and on unsuitable
equipment. Purthermore, needed equipment was assigned to private works.
IDA might have made more effort to convince the Government of the need for
a more rational approach.
7.05      While it may seem unfortunate in retrospect, that IDA did not
insist on the creation of the proposed BMU (para 2.11), it is doubtful if
the 3M could have been fully Insulated from interference by the WOV and
other Government departments. The creation of a new workshop was an effort
In that direction but in the end control rested with MOW which now wants to
close it (para 3.09).
7.06      The dependence of each project component on different sources of
financing has been detrimental to project implementation, especially when
some of the cofinanciers suspended disbursements. Even though this factor
could not have been foreseen in the project design, more consideration
should have been given to trying components to only one source of
financing, and pooling funds from co-donors.
7.07      Perhaps the greatest shortcoming of the project was that no
provision was made to deal with the hugh surplus labor force on the MOW
payroll. Labor costs absorbed most, if not all, of the M0W budget, leaving
little or nothing for spare parts, supplies and fuel.
7.08      Seen in retrospect, it appears that IDA's supervision during the
first years of the project was too tolerant. Covenants were not complied
with but IDA took no action. Once IDA made it clear in 1984 that the
closing date would not be extended if adequate progress was not made, the
project started to move, and momentum was maintained by setting conditions
that had to be met before subsequent closing dates were extended.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      Only about one-third of the originally intended road mllage was
covered by maintenance (para 3.10) while 662 of the resealing (para 3.15)
and 702 of the regravelling (para 3.18) was carried out. This amounts to
roughly 55 completion of the original project physical works. No
institution building results were achieved. A reevaluation of the
resealing and regravelling components project indicates an ERR of just over
601 which is satisfactory.
8.02      The overall performance of the project consultants was only
fair, sometimes due to circumstances over which they had no control.
Performance of the feasibility consultants was good.
8.03      The Borrower's performance was poor; local funds were not made
available as covenanted, and the mOW was often uncooperative and seemed
uninterested in carrying out the project. The Government's performance
improved during the latter part of the project execution when IDA
threatened to close out the credit. The appointment of a project



- 16 -
coord4nAtor was a useful requirement but in future he should be insulated
from political pressures.
8.04      IDA was Indecisive in preparing the project, and reluctant to
insist on performance on the part of the Government once it got underway,
until the latter part of project execution. Earlier supervision was not
adequate or firm enough to meet the challenges that arose.
8.05      The finansial plan which made each component dependent on two or
more sources of financing, turned out to be impractical.
8.06      Transfer of the Kissy shop to the present N0W shop in an
inaccessible and crowded downtown area should be avoided if at all
possible.  One of the key recommendations of the 0 & M study (para 4.03) is
that a highway authority or a Ministry of Roads be established, separate
from the MOW.
8.07      During negotiations for the credit, the Government agreed to a
procedure for selecting the specific roads to be resealed and regravelled
under the project. Unfortunately, the Government continually wanted to
change the lists selected by the consultants and approved by the MOW, which
created delays in finalizing the works to be included in the tender
documents (paras 3.12 and 3.16).
8.08      Lessons learned which should be basic to the design of any
follow-up road project in Sierra Leone (but not necessarily elsewhere)
includes
(a) the need to establish a project executing agency outside MOW
which would be free from day-to-day political influences
(b) a project coordinator or manager should be appointed who is an
experienced senior highway engineer, and he should be insulated
from political pressure from the MOW and other Government
entities;
(c) provision should be made for adequate local currency funding to
be promptly paid into a special account;
(d)  if co.donors are involved, funds should be pooled and not
allocated to specific vorks;
(e) provision should be made for an overseas procurement agent for
the purchase of imported spare parts and supplies;
(f) the consultants, the proposed coordinator or manager, and his
staff should be in the same office;
(g) steps should be taken to greatly reduce the large idle work
force now employed by MOW, and this force should not be taken
over by the new highway entity.



- 19 -
(h) periodic maintenance work, and to the extent possible routine
maintenance, should be carried out by contractors rather than by
departmental forcest
Ci) if roads are to be rehabilitated or rebuilt under a future
project, a specific list should be agreed during negotiations
and included In the credit agreement;
(j) procurement decisions should be taken by the highway entity with
the active participation of its consultants, with no involvement
on the part of MOW:
(k) Project supervision by IDA sbould be frequent, step-by-step perfonmance
monitorlg should be required, based a well defined action plan to be
agreed on at negotiations, and IDA management should be prepared
to Intervene promptly to resolve executivg problems. (The
establishment of a strong resident mission would be of great
assistance, particularly vith regard to ensuring the provision
of adequate local currency funding).



- 20 -
TABLE 1
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Costs and Benefits of Resealing/Repravelling Program
(US$ '000)
Y"o               Ceo                 Total        Total          MET        Intrnal
-        CCOt.     Bnt it         BEEFXT      Rato of
CaptaXl        Iterms.                                            Return:
1094-5      6,160                      5,160            0    (t,IsO
1966-6      6,10             -         5,160        2,764       R2,8943
los6-97     2,60                       2,5          6,166        8,6"0
1997-U                                     0       9, 9,8        9,281
it-"9                        -             0        7,845        7,645
1#Ww9o0                                             6,081        6,081
190-41                   O0                         8,128        6,321
1901-h2                                    0        8s,78        s,57
1962-9-                                    0        7,109        7,109
1690-64                                    0        7822         7,822
1994--                                     0        7,642        7,642
1996- 9                                    0        7,76         7,766



- 21 _
TABLE 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VOC tor Paved and GroundlEarth Road Conditions
Paved    Gravel   Paved    Gravel   Paved    Gravel   Paved    Gravel   Paved
Cars           0.17      0.20    0.20       0.28    0.24       0.26    0.81       0.84    0.41
LCV            0.27      0.81    0.80       0.85    0.85       0.88    0.42       0.47    0.51
Trucks         0.41      0.60    0.49       0.560    0.9       0.61    0.6e       0.78    0.73
I. Paved Reed.      Leasth(ke)              Truck      LCV      Car
(tRe.. I Ing)        18                    18s      soX      875
Year      ADT       Road Condition   Unit VOC(U$I/V.h.ke)   VOC (USN'000)    Sontite
(V.p.d.)    Without   With    Without      With    Without    WIth
Project  Project  Project   Projet   Project  Project
1984-85       200         1         5       0.50      0.25     6,611      8,411    3,400
l086-86       200         1         5       0.60      0.25     6,811      8,411    3,400
1986-87       260         1         5       0.50      0.25     8,513      4,268    4,260
1987-88       260         1         5       0.50      0.25     8,518      4,288    4,250
1988-8        250         1         4       0.50      0.29     8,518      4,888    8,680
1989-90       258         1         4       0.60      0.29     8,769      6,029    8,789
1990-91       28C         1         4       0.50      0.29     9,082      6,180    8,852
1991-92       278         1         4       0.50      0.29     9,808      5,886    8,087
1992-98       281         1         8       0.50      0.34     9,682      6,504    8,077
1998-94       290         1         8       0.50      0.U4     9,869      6,700    8,170
1994-95       299         1         8       0.50      0.84    10,165      6,901    8,285
199S-96       807         1         8       0.60      0.84    10,470      7,108    8,88s
II. CreYvl/Earth   Length(km)                Truck    LCV       Car
Road            270                     10X    52X       29X
a(r ill"rvlIIng)
____e_rav__ _ig                           ______ _______ _______
Year       ADT       Road Condition   Unit VOC(USI/veh.ka)   VOC (US8'000)    Befite
---  - ----- -  --(USSI'000)
(v.p.d.)    Without   With    Without      With    Without    With
Projet  Project  Prject   Project   Project  Project
1984-85       190         1         5        0.58      0.31   10,864      5,888    4,981
1985-86       190         1         5        0.58      0.31   10,884      5,988    4,981
1986-87       100         1         5        0.58      0.81   10,864      5,883    4,981
1987-88       190         1         5        0.58      0.81   10,864      5,888    4,981
1988-89       10          1         4        0.58      0.86   10,864      6,649    4,215
19809-90      106         1         4        0.58      0.#8   11,190      6,849    4,841
1990-91       202         1         4        0.58      0.86   11,526      7,064    4,472
1991-92       208         1         4        0.58      0.86    11,871     7,266    4,606
1m-98         214         1         8        0.58      0.89   12,227      6,196    4,082
1988-94       220         1         8        0.58      0.89   12,594      6,442    4,158
1994-95       227         1         8        0.58      0.39   12,972      6,695    4,277
1995-96       284         1         3        0.68      0.89   13,861      8,958    4,406



MM13244Rl
.  _   4  .           X                                     1 K     \  L^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VURITlAl A
---  NI-M- ROAO5                 -N -  -i-  -                                                  j   *     S,
=                                               %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *                                                                     O      ITRC ITNlERS IA  # rS
OESX   b   JR/R                                                 K  NAOUGU    L.
SIERRA LEONE                   w}                                                A a
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECTeR
Main Pxoject Roa,ds to be Maintainred                       -JRUW1t                                     1 _
_M KTIOA  SOM RM SnW$r
T    t  w  w  se Dr,u| |   ~    ~     Mt q
,_;   ,1                                                                         D U   u         L e t,,
8~~ ~ ~ ~ AZ Ke



