Document of
The World Bank                   FIl  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2991-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 18, 1981
lhis document hs A restricted disributin and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsd without Wrld  ank anho aon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =          Leone (Le)
Le 1.00                          US$0.95
US$1.00               =          Le 1.05
Le 1.0 million        =          US$0.95 million
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH SYSTEM
British/US                                      Metric
1 foot                            =         0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                       =         1.61 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)             =         2.59 square kilometers (km2)
1 ton (long ton)                            1.016 metric tons (m tons)
1 imp gallon                      =         4.54 liters
1 US gallon                      =          3.78 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
adt       average daily traffic
ARE       Area Road Engineer
CARE      Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
EDF       European Development Fund
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
HDM       Highway Design and Maintenance Model
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LTS       Land Transport Survey
MDEP      Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MoW       Ministry of Works
MTC       Ministry of Transport and Communications
OPEC Fund OPEC Fund for International Development
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
RTC       Road Transport Corporation
SHE       Senior Highway Engineer
SLA       Sierra Leone Airways
SLPMB     Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SLR       Sierra Leone Railway
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
voc       vehicle operating costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE UIN LI
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:                SDRs 8.1 million (US$10.0 million)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project aims at improving the efficiency of road
maintenance operations in Sierra Leone, preserving the
links between Freetown and the provinces, and improving
road transportation among the major towns in the pro-
vinces. It includes: (a) planning and implementing
routine maintenance on about 4,400 miles of primary,
secondary and subsidiary roads; (b) resealing of about
200 miles of paved roads; (c) rehabilitation of some 370
miles of gravel roads; and (d) consulting services and
training. The project will benefit the rural and urban
population by helping to lower transportation costs,
improve accessibility to remote agricultural areas and
increase availability of food. It will also help
improve agricultural extension services and facilitate
the distribution of farm inputs on a more extensive
scale. Further expected benefits include savings from
reduced road re-construction costs and enhancement of
institutional capacity to plan and execute road mainte-
nance programs. The possible risks involved are mainly
institutional. The successful implementation of the
project depends on institutional improvements and the
Government's ability to provide the necessary funds for
maintenance operations. The risks are not unusual for
this type of project.
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Total             Total with
Local  Foreign net of taxes Taxes   Taxes
Equipment                             0.4      5.1      5.5           -         5.5
Incremental operating costs of        0.3      2.5      2.8          0.6       3.4
routine maintenance
Resealing of paved roads              0.7      5.2      5.9          0.1        6.0
Rehabilitation of gravel roads        0.9      2.7      3.6          0.7        4.3
Consulting services and training    2.4        2.5      4.9           -        4.9
Contingencies                         1.1      3.4      4.5          0.4       4.9
TOTAL                        5.8    21.4    27.2           1.8       29.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local         Foreign       Total
IDA                             0.5              9.5          10.0
OPEC Fund                       0.5              6.5           7.0
ADF                             0.5              5.4           5.9
Government                      6.1               -            6.1
TOTAL             7.6            21.4          29.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
FY81     FY82       FY83      FY84   FY85
Annual               0.1        1.9        3.2       3.7    1.1
Cumulative           0.1        2.0        5.2       8.9   10.0
Rate of Return:        Over 100 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 1923a - SL dated March 11, 1981.
Map:   IBRD 13244



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDR
8.1 million (US$10.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second
highway project. The OPEC Fund for International Development is expected to
co-finance this project on a parallel basis with a loan of US$7.0 million
for 20 years, including five years of grace, without interest. The project
would also be co-financed on a parallel basis by the African Development
Fund (ADF) with a loan of US$5.9 million equivalent substantially on the
same terms as the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Sierra Leone - Current Economic Position
and Prospects" (No. 494a-SL dated November 28, 1974) was distributed to
the Executive Directors. Subsequently, two updating Economic Memoranda (No.
1106-SL dated June 25, 1976 and No. 2153-SL dated June 26, 1979) have also
been distributed to the Executive Directors. A Bank economic mission
visited Sierra Leone in May 1980 and its principal findings are incorporated
into this report. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The economy of Sierra Leone is dualistic in character, a rela-
tively small modern sector co-existing alongside a large traditional agri-
cultural sector. For its source of income and growth, Sierra Leone relies
heavily on agriculture and mining, although in recent years depletion of the
country's richest mineral deposits has led to a decline in their relative
contribution to the economy. Diamonds, the largest export earner, accounted
for nearly 56 percent of exports in 1979.
4.        The agricultural sector, still largely outside the monetized
economy, provides livelihood for nearly 80 percent of the population. Its
contribution to GDP, however, is around 35 percent, implying a low level of
agricultural productivity and food output per capita on the average. Rice
is the staple food and is grown by over 80 percent of the farmers, primarily
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Eastern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project III dated December 19, 1980
(Report No. P-2929-SL).



- 2 -
for subsistence, although the country still faces rice shortages. Coffee,
cocoa and oil palm products are the major export crops and also the princi-
pal sources of cash income for the agricultural population.
5.        Sierra Leone-s social and economic infrastructure is not yet well
developed. Although the extent of the road transport network is generally
adequate for its present needs, there is an urgent need for improved mainte-
nance and the development of feeder roads. The country has good water
resources, although the hydro power potential is still relatively untapped.
Only about 12 percent of the population has access to a safe drinking
water supply, mostly in the urban areas. Health facilities are inadequate
and infant and childhood mortality rates are among the highest in Africa.
Although the Government has in recent years invested quite heavily in
education, primary and secondary school enrollment ratios are low (37
percent and 11 percent, respectively) and the country's illiteracy rate
remains high, around 85 percent.
6.        The dualistic economic structure is reflected in income dispari-
ties between the modern and traditional sectors. With a population of about
3.3 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 was estimated at about US$250.
The average per capita rural income is around US$120 while it averages about
US$600 in the urban centers. About 23 percent of the population lives in
urban areas. The urban migration rate (4.9 percent) is relatively low
compared with neighboring countries; however, approximately 30 percent of
the urban population has an income level below the urban absolute poverty
threshold estimated at around US$105.
Economic Performance
(1) Production and Income
7.        During its first decade of independence between 1962 and 1972,
the financial resources available to Sierra Leone did not come under undue
pressure as a result primarily of a reasonable rate of growth in domestic
resources. Throughout this period, a nearly 5 percent growth in GDP per annum
provided substantial foreign exchange earnings and also contributed to a
satisfactory growth in public revenues. Beginning in 1972, however, this
situation changed. Diamond output began to decline, mainly as a result of the
depletion of alluvial deposits; there was a sharp increase in oil prices in
1973 coupled with rising import prices of manufactured goods; and in 1975 the
country lost its second largest source of export earnings when the only iron
ore mine closed due to rising production costs and a declining iron ore
grade. As a consequence, the GDP declined by 4 percent in 1975/76 and
remained virtually stagnant thereafter. During this period (1974 and 1979)
the growth of GDP was less than one percent (0.9 percent) per annum on the
average. With a population growth rate of about 2.5 percent per year, this
resulted in a sharp decline in already low per capita real incomes.



-3-
(2) Fiscal Performance
8.        From 1973, the slowdown in economic growth and the erosion of the
export base were accompanied by a marked deterioration in fiscal performance
characterized by stagnating public revenues and expanding public expenditure
policies. During the period 1973 to 1979, while public revenues increased
an average of 12 percent a year, public expenditures grew about 21 percent
per annum and the overall budget deficit widened from Le 21 million in
1973 (about 6 percent of GNP) to approximately Le 114 million in 1979 (about
13 percent of GNP). Fiscal and monetary expansion, financed largely by
short-term external borrowing, led to ever widening budgetary deficits, a
further deterioration in the balance of payments and a substantial increase
in the country's external debt burden. During the last two years, the
increase in expenditures was largely attributable to civil service salary
adjustments, expansion in the internal security forces and extra budgetary
spending related to the OAU Conference held in Freetown.
(3) Balance of Payments
9.        The impact of stagnant production on the balance of payments was
masked until 1974 by favorable export prices for Sierra Leone-s major exports.
Consequently, the country's foreign exchange reserves remained at satisfactory
levels until the end of 1973. Difficulties began to emerge in 1974 and 1975
when import prices rose sharply as a result of the oil crisis and interna-
tional inflation, while export performance remained modest. In 1974 and
afterwards, the balance of payments began to deteriorate and show increasing
overall deficits. As petroleum consumption is relatively high in Sierra Leone
(mining, transport, power), the balance of payments position has been parti-
cularly affected by oil price increases. The cost of petroleum imports jumped
from US$8 million in 1971 to about US$70 million in 1979, now claiming more
than one third of the country's export earnings. While world diamond prices
have remained strong in recent years, since the volume of Sierra Leone's
diamond output declined, overall export earnings showed only modest growth.
Import demand, on the other hand, rose sharply with rising import costs and
expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. The overall balance of payments
deficit rose to US$43 million in 1979 from about US$7 million in 1974. Sierra
Leone's net foreign exchange reserves which stood at around US$36 million at
the end of 1974, have declined steadily and remained tight since then. In
December 1980 gross official reserves amounted to US$32 million, of which only
US$7.7 million, equivalent to one week's imports, was freely disposable.
(4) Development of Objectives and Development Efforts
10.       The country's first National Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
was prepared with the assistance of the UNDP and the UN Department of
Technical Cooperation for Development. The development strategy and objec-
tives stated in the plan and many of its basic elements were well conceived
and articulated. Priority was to be given to the expansion of the productive
capacity of the economy and to a more equitable distribution of wealth and
incomes. Unfortunately the period of the Plan coincided with the rapid
depletion of the country's principal source of foreign exchange earnings and



a deterioration in the Government's fiscal performance. These factors
undercut the economic and financial resource assumptions underlying the Plan.
The Goverment's policies concentrated increasingly on short-term financial
problems and neglected the requirements of longer-term structural adjustment.
More recently, the Government began to focus again on medium-term policies
and formulated a three year public investment program (1978/79-1980/81) as an
interim measure and initiated preparation of a second National Development
Plan. The public investment program attempted to shift resources to increased
commodity production, particularly in agriculture. The second plan, which
will become operational starting from 1981/82, is expected to address the
question of structural adjustment and give emphasis to the productive sectors
together with income distribution objectives.
11.       Over the past five years, between 1974/75 and 1978/79, development
spending by the public sector amounted to Le 150 million (about 45 percent
less than the plan target, which was based on an annual GDF growth rate of
6 percent as compared with the actual growth rate of 0.9 percent). Out of
this total about 22 percent was spent on agriculture, 20 percent on road
transport, 17 percent on energy, 15 percent on social services and 25 percent
on other economic and general services. Of these expenditures, 17 percent
was financed by budgetary savings while the remaining 83 percent came from
.external and internal borrowings.
Recent Measures for Economic Stabilization
12.       Faced with increasing difficulties with respect to balance of
payments, servicing of external debt and acceleration in the domestic
inflation rate, the Government of Sierra Leone entered into a one year
standby arrangement with the IMF in November 1979 for SDR's 17 million in
the second and third credit tranches. The stabilization program supported
by the standby arrangement included revenue raising measures, a limit on
public expenditures, restrictions on new external debt, tighter monetary
policy and adjustment in producer prices. The Government made satisfac-
tory progress in implementing the program, especially as regards revenue
raising measures and restrictions on short-term external borrowing.
Following IMF review missions in January and again in April 1980, Sierra
Leone has been able to purchase the full amount of the standby facility.
13.       The 1979/80 budget was drawn up in the light of the Government's
decision to implement a financial program to be supported by the Fund.
Fiscal policies under the standby arrangement were geared towards reducing
the budgetary deficits and inflationary financing, through additional revenue
measures and restrictions on public spending. Sierra Leone has been success-
ful in implementing the revenue measures and curtailing the net government
borrowing from the banking system. However, there have been slippages in
the areas of government expenditures. Recurrent expenditures have so far
risen faster than program targets, while capital expenditures on OAU-related
projects are estimated to have exceeded the initially envisaged amount



- 5 -
of Le 100 million and to have reached about Le 123 million. The faster-than-
programmed increase in recurrent expenditures has been due primarily to
unpredicted sharp increases in oil and other import prices, high levels of
rice imports, and weakness in implementing the newly centralized expenditure
control measures.
14.       Sierra Leone's external trade balance as well as current account
balance have improved modestly in 1979/80 as compared with the previous
year. Export earnings have increased by about 10 percent above the 1978/79
level as a result primarily of favorable export receipts from diamonds. The
total import bill on the other hand has been kept at a reasonable level
despite sharp increases in oil prices and higher-than-expected level of rice
imports. This was achieved through restrictive credit policies, intensifi-
cation of administrative controls on low priority imports, and through
centralization of the procurement procedures for the public sector. However,
largely because of the heavy debt service obligations, the foreign exchange
situation has remained extremely tight throughout the fiscal year.
15.       The highly expansionary monetary and credit trends of earlier
years were contained under the stabilization program. As of June 1980, the
rate of expansion of money supply was substantially lower than the year before
(15 percent compared with 27 percent). During the first three quarters of the
program period (June 1979-March 1980), net credit to Government rose by 18
percent compared with an actual increase of 38 percent in the comparable
period of the previous year.
16.       The FY81 budget introduced new tax measures to yield an incremental
tax revenue of nearly Le 20 million, about 10 percent above the estimated
outturn of the last year. The growth of recurrent expenditures is restricted
to 15 percent which, with the current inflation rate, implies a virtually
unchanged level of government activity in real terms. In October 1980, a 20-30
percent general wage and salary increase (the first since 1978) was granted by
the Government. Although not provided for in the budget, this increase was
accompanied by partially offsetting revenue measures on import duties.
17.       Sierra Leone has requested further IMF support for a medium-term
economic and financial program under the Extended Fund Facility to start at
the end of the standby period. The Government and the IMF have recently
completed negotiations and consideration by the IMF Board is expected in late
March 1981. If approved by the Board, the program will enable Sierra Leone to
purchase about SDR 186 million over the three-year period starting from the
Board approval date. The release of Fund resources in each year will be
subject to annual performance reviews by the IMF and observance of quarterly
performance criteria.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has, since the mid-1970's, relied heavily on foreign borrowing
to finance its capital expenditures. Total external public debt outstanding
increased by about US$132 million between 1975 and 1979.  As of June 30,



- 6 -
1979 Sierra Leone's external public debt outstanding, including arrears
of principal, amounted to US$329.7 million of which US$277.6 million was
*disbursed. The total debt outstanding and disbursed consisted roughly of
47 percent in commercial credits, 28 percent bilateral loans and 25 percent
loans and credit from international institutions. As of June 30, 1979, the
Bank Group held about 13 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding
and disbursed. Assistance from bilateral government sources came mostly from
the Federal Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China and the
Netherlands.
19.       The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt has
deteriorated sharply since 1975 as a result of increased reliance on supplier
credits. The average maturity of all new commitments declined from 16 years
(in the early 1970s) to around 5 years in 1978/79. The major portion of the
supplier credits obtained in 1978 and 1979 were contracted in connection with
projects related to the OAU Conference. Based on the external debt commit-
ments made until December 1979, it is estimated that, without debt relief, the
external public debt service payments for 1980 would stand around US$72.0
million, equivalent to about 33 percent of expected export earnings and about
46 percent of expected government revenues. Since this was unmanageable, the
Government in November 1979 approached the creditor countries through the
Paris Club and in February 1980 negotiated a second debt relief agreement.
The total debt relief granted by this agreement amounts to an estimated US$10
million for 1980 and US$7.5 million for 1981. After taking the debt relief
into account, actual debt service payments due declined from US$72.0 million
to about US$62.0 million in 1980. This latter amount represents 28 percent of
expected export earnings and about 40 percent of expected government revenues
in 1980; debt service is expected to remain at about this level in FY81 and
FY82.  Thereafter it should decline, assuming Sierra Leone does not contract
significant amounts of new short-term debt. Debt service on Bank Group loans
and credits amounted to about 2.8 percent of Sierra Leone's total debt service
liability in 1980.
Future Prospects
20.       The next two to three years are likely to be extremely difficult
ones for Sierra Leone: the earliest revival of the economic activity is
not expected before the mid-1980's even with new investments in mining and
continued investments in agriculture. During this period, while export
earnings may at best increase modestly, the cost of imports will continue
their upward trend, creating pressures on the balance of payments as well
as the budget. The balance of payments situation and the budget will addi-
tionally be burdened with heavy debt service obligations falling due on pre-
viously contracted short-term debt. At the time the Paris Club agreed to
debt rescheduling for 1980, it also committed itself to similar rescheduling
for 1981 and 1982, on the condition that Sierra Leone continue to have a
program with the DMF. Over the next two fiscal years, therefore, continued
stabilization efforts will be required. In the medium and longer-term, it is
foreseeable that Sierra Leone will both restore and sustain its creditworthi-
ness provided the Government implements policies and investment programs aimed
at the structural transformation of the economy. The future outlook of the



- 7 -
mninirg sector in Sierra Leone is difficult to assess in view of the limited
knowledge of the extent of mineral deposits. There are good prospects for
kimberlite underground diamond mining; large iron ore reserves have been
discovered, but these are of low ore grade; mining of rutile has just resumed
and there are plans to expand bauxite production. The proposed Bumbuna hydro
power project could provide lower cost energy to support these activities. A
further intensification of the present efforts in the agricultural sector
should strengthen the country's renewable resource base, increase export
earnings from cocoa, coffee and palm oil, and raise the standard of living
and incomes for the vast majority of the country's people. The implementation
of programs designed to achieve structural transformation will take time to
implement and will require substantial flows of external assistance on conces-
sionary terms. Although the present balance of payments situation and the
country's debt profile would not justify lending on normal IBRD terms, the
country-s low per capita income and its recent efforts to improve economic
performance justify extending IDA assistance. At the same time, to ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange resources for the country's development
program during a period of budgetary stringency, it would be appropriate to
finance a portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE 1/
Bank Group Operations
21.       Bank Group lending operations in Sierra Leone to date have total-
led US$66.6 million. There have been four loans amounting to US$18.7 million
and eight credits totalling US$45.8 million. IFC has provided a loan of
US$2.1 million to Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd. (SERACEM). Three
loans and four credits are fully disbursed. Bank Group lending has supported
agriculture (40.8 percent), education (15.9 percent), power (24.6 percent)
and roads (14.7 percent) and technical assistance (4.0 percent). Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of January 31,
1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In general, the execu-
tion of the ongoing agricultural and education projects has been satisfactory;
the implementation of the institutional aspects of the third power project has
encountered some problems mostly due to weak management.
Lending Strategy
22.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Sierra Leone
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic
development planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate agricultural
production with a view both to broadening the country's export base, e.g.,
cocoa, coffee and palm oil, and also to helping attain self-sufficiency in
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report for the Eastern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project III dated December 19, 1980
(Report No. P-2929-SL).



- 8-
the production of staple foods; (c) improve the country's essential infra-
structure, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of which presently
constitutes a constraint upon the country' s economic growth; (d) raise the
income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of the popula-
tion; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the rural areas,
and improve its quality. At the same time, the Bank Group aims through its
projects to encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing and tariff
policies and to strengthen the management and operations of the relevant
government departments and corporations.
23.        Since the halt in 1975 of iron ore production and the gradual
decline in the production of diamonds, it has become increasingly important
to develop the agricultural and manufacturing potential of the economy.
Bank Group-financed agricultural development projects have provided improved
extension services, feeder roads and farm inputs to smallholders affected by
the projects. These activities were started in the Eastern area under the
first project, and expanded under the second project which also initiated
similar assistance in the Northern area. The third agricultural development
project (approved by the Executive Directors on January 13, 1981) would extend
coverage of the Eastern project, which has been successfully completed, to the
entire province and would place added emphasis on production of coffee and
cocoa in order to diversify the country's export base. The proposed fourth
agricultural project would expand smallholder activities in a second phase
operation in the Northern province. These ongoing and prospective operations
will complement other integrated agricultural development projects under way
elsewhere in Sierra Leone with the assistance of the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European Economic Community (EEC). To
ensure smooth assimilation of these projects into the agriculture ministry and
help rationalize agricultural policies and credit, an agricultural services
project is being prepared for possible Bank Group support. A possible indus-
trial development (IDF) project may be prepared to assist in financing small
and medium scale enterprise development in agro-industries, manufacturing and
services.
24.        In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project assisted
in the construction of the country's main trunk road system, in implementing
a maintenance program, and in preparing studies for further improvement of
the road system. The proposed Second Highway Project aims at strengthening
the country's capacity to program and execute road maintenance. A third
project in the power sector, approved in 1977, is helping finance urgently
needed extension of electric power generation and distribution facilities in
Freetown and several provincial centers, thereby restoring a measure of
reliability in the supply of power required for sustaining the Sierra Leone
economy. The project is also intended to help strengthen the finances and
management of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC). At the same
time, the project includes assistance for the preparation of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric scheme which is aimed at reducing the country's dependence on
petroleum-based power.
25.        In the social sectors, two education projects approved by the
Bank Group have been directed towards improving and diversifying education
at the secondary level, including teacher training, modernizing curricula



- 9 -
to increase the relevance of education to employment, encouraging rural and
non-formal training and strengthening educational planning and management.
Preparation has begun on a third education project which inter alia is
expected to support the Government's efforts to increase access to primary
education in the rural areas.
26.       To achieve its medium and longer-term development objectives, the
Government needs to improve its economic planning and project preparation
capability. The Bank Group has already provided technical advice to the
Government in the formulation of its current three-year public investment
program (1978/9-1980/1). In response to a request from the Government, the
Bank Group is also financing a technical assistance project which, in coopera-
tion with UNDP/TCD, is designed to assist the Government in the formulation
of a second National Economic Development Plan and the preparation of well-
conceived development projects in a number of priority sectors.
27.       As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
serious economic difficulties in the last few years, and, as a consequence,
the level of Bank Group lending has been low. Continued improvement in
the Government's management of the economy will be important in determining
the level of future Bank Group lending.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
Sector Characteristics
28.       The transport sector of Sierra Leone comprises a road network of
about 4,400 miles of classified roads and an undetermined number of local
tracks; one international airport and eight local airfields; and three sea
ports. A UNDP financed land transport survey in 1966, for which the Bank was
the executing agency, concluded that rail transport was uneconomic compared
with road transport; since the Sierra Leone Railway (SLR) was an unprofitable
enterprise, the railway was phased out in 1973. Since civil aviation does
not play a prominent role in the economy, and with the railways no longer in
existence, the roads and the ports are the key elements in the transport
sector.
29.       Compared to such neighboring countries as Guinea and Liberia,
Sierra Leone's transport infrastructure is fairly extensive and until recently
was adequate to meet the country-s requirements. However, the urgent need to
diversify the country's export base calls for an intensification of agricul-
tural development as well as improvement in the related transport system,
particularly roads. In the road sub-sector, the immediate need is to maintain
the existing road network, which is generally in a serious state of disrepair,
and for the construction of more feeder roads and local tracks. In order to
maintain the road network efficiently, some existing paved roads need new
surface layers and some heavily trafficked gravel roads need to be paved.



- 10 -
Policy Planning and Co-ordination
30.       The Government's transport sector policy, as stated in its FY75-
79 National Development Plan, concentrates mainly on the highway sub-sector,
including highway construction and improvement, feeder road construction,
and road maintenance. During the five year period FY75-79, the Government
invested about Le 150 million in all sectors of which about Le 30 million,
or 20 percent, was invested in roads.
31.       Responsibility for transport planning is shared by the Central
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Development and Economic Planning (MDEP),
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), and the Ministry of
Works (MOW). MOW proposes roads to be built and is responsible for their
construction and maintenance. MTC determines highway regulations and air
and sea transport policy. MOW and the Central Planning Unit of MDEP advise
on road priorities, in accordance with the objectives of the National Develop-
ment Plan.
32.       While the closure of the railways eliminated an uneconomic trans-
port mode, the Government still needs to strike a better balance between the
maintenance of existing infrastructure, the construction of new main roads,
and the construction of rural access roads. In the past, because it was not
adequately staffed, MDEP did not take the lead in this coordination role.
However, improvements are now expected as a result of assistance being
provided under three existing projects: the IDA Technical Assistance Credit
(SL 970) to strengthen planning capability, project preparation and execution
capacity in key sectoral ministries; the UNDP financed Planning Projects in
Economic Management (SIL/79/005) and Infrastructure Planning (SIL/79/004)
for which the World Bank is executing agency; and the proposed project which
includes technical assistance to strengthen MOW-s capacity to plan and
execute road maintenance programs.
B. The Road Transport Sub-Sector
The Road System
33.       Of the 4,400 miles of roads which make up the classified road net-
work of Sierra Leone, only about 17 percent or 764 miles are paved. The
network is centered around the more economically developed areas such as
Kenema and Makeni. Nonetheless, the average density for most areas of
the country is fairly high and that of the entire network, 0.16 miles per
sq. mile compares favorably with, say, Guinea (0.14) or Liberia (0.12).
Traffic is high by West African standards, with an estimated 612 miles of
roads having an average daily traffic (ADT) of over 400 vehicles per day
and another 869 miles with an ADT of more than 150 vehicles. Only about
half of the roads with an ADT of more than 150 vehicles are paved, and it is
likely that paving most of the remainder would be economically justified.
The vehicle fleet is estimated at about 33,000 vehicles at 1980, or about
one vehicle per 100 inhabitants. This is somewhat less than in Liberia



- 11 -
j .   bat considerably more than in neighboring Guinea (less than 0.5).  In
recent years vehicle statistics have not been kept properly, and the proposed
prcj>cj includes technical assistance to improve data collection and analysis.
Administration
34.       Responsibility for the construction, maintenance and administration
of the highway system of Sierra Leone as well as for public buildings, air-
ports, jetties and ferries rests with the Ministry of Public Works (MOW). The
MOW has a staff of over 10,000 employees and, apart from two expatriates in
c-ltZnical positions, is almost completely indigenized. Over the years, the
ability of MOW to execute its tasks effectively has been severely hampered by
several factors including a persistent shortage of spare parts and fuel,
inadequate and broken down equipment, overstaffing at the lower level and low
work morale at the middle and upper levels. MOW has seven Area Offices each
headed by an Area Engineer. At present Area Engineers are responsible for
minor construction works and for maintenance of all public infrastructure.
The Area Engineers are subjected to considerable political pressure to under-
take a variety of new construction works of doubtful economic justification
which often take priority over maintenance needs. The proposed project
includes a study to recommend improvements to MOW's organizational structure
and procedures which should assist in overcoming some of these problems
(para. 43(d) below).
The Contracting Industry
35.       Owing principally to lack of capital, managerial skills and technical
expertise, no truly indigenous firms are involved in the road construction
industry in Sierra Leone and participation by MOW has hitherto been limited
to the building of some bridges and short sections of roads as well as the
preparation of designs for and supervision of the construction of minor
projects. Major road and bridge construction as well as civil engineering
works and technical supervision are still largely undertaken by foreign
firms. Under the proposed project, a study would be undertaken to assess the
present condition and needs of Sierra Leone's construction industry and what
measures need to be taken to increase the competence and capacity of domestic
contractors.
Road Transport Industry
36.       The road transport industry of Sierra Leone operates under a mixed
enterprise system. A publicly owned Road Transport Corporation (RTC) provides
passenger services alongside a sizeable number of privately owned small enter-
prises (truckers, mini buses, taxis). Following heavy financial losses in the
freight transportation business, RTC now concentrates on passenger transporta-
tion alone and is finding it hard to break even in the face of government-set
passenger fares that have not kept pace with inflation. Unlike passenger
fares, tariffs for freight transport are determined by the market and no
private or public agency exists for organizing road freight transport. Entry
into the latter industry is legally restricted to nationals of Sierra Leone,
but this limitation has in practice been largely ignored with the result that
foreigners are extensively involved in the industry. To date, the road trans-
port industry has on balance managed to provide adequate services despite
scarcities of spare parts and equipment and rapidly rising operating costs.



- 12 -
Road Construction and Maintenance
37.       Whilst major construction works are normally executed by foreign
firms, MOW is gradually developing the capability to undertake major road
and bridge design work. The design standards used for road engineering are
somewhat unbalanced and would be reviewed under the project. Equipment
intensive methods are used for force account road construction or rehabilita-
tion and for bridge works, while labor intensive methods are used for routine
maintenance. There may be greater scope for labor utilization and under the
proposed project a consultant study would examine the appropriate use of labor
in road construction and maintenance. Because of MOW's limited construction
capability, a U.S. private charitable organization, Cooperative American
Relief Everywhere (CARE) is executing on behalf of Government a feeder road
construction program with financial assistance from USAID and the EEC and Bank
Group under ongoing agricultural development projects in the Northern and
Eastern Regions of Sierra Leone. The CARE program is proceeding well and the
works are of good quality. However, the roads were built to higher standards
than normal, partly in the knowledge that maintenance would probably be
neglected; more recently the standards have been revised downwards by an
agreement between Government, CARE and IDA. Also in September 1977, the
Government created a feeder road maintenance unit within MOW to be responsible
jointly with CARE for maintenance of feeder roads built by the latter.
38.       The effectiveness of road investment in promoting economic develop-
ment, particularly in the rural areas, has been constrained by inadequate
road maintenance. In some instances newly constructed feeder roads are being
utilized as secondary roads because of the state of disrepair of the secondary
system. Road maintenance expenditures decreased from about 4.2 percent of
Government recurrent expenditures in FY71 to about 2.5 percent in FY79.
Budgetary and foreign exchange constraints have resulted in lack of spare
parts and equipment, and these problems have been aggravated by diversion
of equipment to other activities, the relatively low priority accorded to
maintenance compared with new investment, inadequate workshops, and poor
training and supervision of field staff and laborers. These problems would
be addressed under the proposed project.
Past Bank Group Assistance
39.       Bank Group assistance in the transport sector in Sierra Leone has to
date been relatively modest in financial terms. A loan and credit for the
First Highway Project (Loan 710/Credit 218-SL, US$7.2 million, 1971) financed
the construction of the Bo-Kenema road and a first phase of road maintenance,
including equipment, technical assistance and training. The project has been
completed and the loan and credit amounts fully disbursed. The project ran
into cost overrun problems and a Supplementary Credit of US$2.3 million was
approved in 1975. Although the ex post economic rate of return (25%) exceeded
appraisal estimates, the Project Performance Audit Report dated June 13, 1978,
noted that implementation of the routine and periodic maintenance component of
the project fell short of expectations due to diversion of equipment for use
by other Government agencies; subordination of maintenance to construction;
and budgetary and personnel constraints. To the extent possible the present
project tries to minimize the risk of this recurring.



- 13 -
40.       The Bank Group's principal objective in the transport sector is
to encourage the Government to relate its transport expenditures to broader
economic objectives, particularly in support of agriculture. The first
priority is adequate road maintenance so that the condition of existing
roads will permit efficient transport in support of rural development. The
second priority is rational selection, preparation, and implementation of road
investments, including feeder roads, and improvement works on primary and
secondary roads. The Technical Assistance Project (Credit 970 SL) and the
proposed project focus on strengthening transport planning and improving
highway maintenance and is based to a significant degree on the lessons
learned from the First Highway Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared with the help of consultants financed by
UNDP and was appraised by the Bank Group in October 1977, but further pro-
cessing had to be held in abeyance for over two years, pending improvements
in the management of the economy.  It was reappraised in May 1980.  A report
entitled "Sierra Leone: Second Highway Project, Staff Appraisal Report",
No. 1923a-SL, dated March 11, 1981, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington February 17-19,
1981. The Sierra Leone negotiation team was led by the Honorable E.S. Kargbo,
Minister of Works. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
42.       The proposed project is expected to strengthen and improve the
efficiency and productivity of the road maintenance organization of the
country through the provision of equipment, spare parts, technical assistance
and training. It would support the country's agricultural development efforts
by helping preserve the road links between farms, domestic markets and the
Freetown seaport.
Description
43.       The proposed project would include:  (i) the planning and execu-
tion of routine maintenance on the entire classified network of about 4,400
miles of paved and gravel roads by force account; (ii) the resealing of
about 200 miles of paved roads by contract, or about one-quarter of the
paved network, most of which requires resealing at this time; (iii) the
rehabilitation of some 370 miles of gravel roads by force account, or about
one-tenth of the gravel network much of which now requires regravelling; and
(iv) technical assistance to MOW and studies. More specifically, the
project would include the following:
(a) Routine Maintenance: At one maintenance worker per mile of road,
the present ratio is excessive in relation to output. Under the project,
gangs of MOW's labor force will be complemented by light mechanized units for
patching, grading and minor repairs, thereby significantly increasing labor
output and productivity. By September 1 of each year, during implementation,



- 14 -
the Government will furnish to the Association, for its approval, a program
of routine maintenance to be carried out during the next year (Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.01 (f)). In 1979, the Government purchased road equipment
under suppliers' credits. Most of the equipment has been identified for use
under the proposed project. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
this equipment would be used exclusively for the proposed project (Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06). A few additional pieces of complementary equipment,
such as compactors, compressors and service equipment will be financed under
the Project. To improve workshop facilities, a building currently used for
equipment storage will be remodeled to become the new Freetown Central Work-
shop. The latter would be fully equipped, and additional equipment for five
area workshops would be obtained. Finally, MOW's soils laboratory in Free-
town would be provided with new equipment, vehicles and assistance in staff
retraining.
(b) Resealing of Paved Roads: 200 miles of priority road sections
would be resealed under contract over a period of two years. The roads
would be selected with the assistance of consultants provided under the
project. A study would be undertaken by the consultants under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association to determine priority road sec-
tions for resealing; by August 31, 1981, the Government will furnish to the
Association for its approval a program for the resealing of the selected
paved roads (Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(d)).
(c) Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads: The project provides for the
regravelling of about 370 miles of gravel roads by force account. Priority
sections of the country-s gravel roads will be selected for rehabilitation
under the project. The roads will be selected on the basis of a study to be
carried out by the consultants under the project in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; by December 31, 1981, the Govern-
ment will furnish to the Association for its approval a program for the
rehabilitation of the selected gravel roads (Credit Agreement, Section
3.01 (e)).
(d) Technical Assistance Training and Studies: A consulting team
comprising one senior highway engineer (39 m/m), one training specialist
(15 m/m), two highway maintenance engineers (66 m/m), one mechanical (24 ra/m),
one transport economist (24 m/m) and six Sierra Leonian area road engineers
(ARE's, 37 m/m each) will assist MOW, during the period of implementation,
to strengthen its capacity to plan and execute road maintenance projects
efficiently.  They will also, with the help of short-term experts (38 m/m),
prepare a follow up road maintenance program, review the organizational struc-
ture and responsibilities of the Ministry of Works, and submit recommendations
regarding the maintenance of feeder roads and local tracks. They will also
review MOW½s budgetary accounting and procurement procedures, review design
standards and recommend the most appropriate labor/equipment mix for road
maintenance and construction. The UNDP has agreed to finance a feasibility
and preliminary engineering study of the Kenema-Pendembu-Koindu road for which
the Bank is the executing agency. Detailed engineering for the economically
justified section of this road will be financed under the proposed maintenance
project. In view of the importance of the technical assistance in implement-
ing the project, the hiring of consultants satisfactory to the Association has



- 15 -
been made a condition of credit effectiveness; the Government has already
requested proposals from a short list of consultants approved by the Associa-
tion during negotiations (Credit Agreement Section 6.01 (b)).
Recurrent Maintenance Budget
44.       In view of the Government's budgetary constraints, a declining
portion of the incremental operating costs of road maintenance materials
required to implement the project would be financed from the credit. This
would involve a total amount of US$2.6 million over a period of three years
(FY82-84). An additional US$2.7 million will be made available from the
Government for the same purpose over the same period. In order to avoid
possible delays in project implementation, the Government will also open a
special revolving fund account with a local bank for all expenditures
related to maintenance materials. The Government would open this account
and make an initial deposit of Le 600,000 into it as a condition of credit
effectiveness and a second deposit of Le 500,000 by September 1, 1982; the
account would be replenished monthly (Credit Agreement, Sections 3.01(b)
and 3.01(c)).
Project Cost
45.       The total cost of the project, including taxes estimated at $1.8
million, is estimated at US$29.0 million of which US$21.4 million or 74 per-
cent is in foreign costs and US$7.6 million in local costs. The Government
proposes to waive all taxes and duties for the project, except those on fuel,
which amount to about US$1.8 million. A summary breakdown of project capital
costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary. The cost estimates are
based on data and experience in neighboring countries.  The cost per man-
month for expatriate consultants is estimated to range between US$6,000 and
US$8,500, exclusive of local travel and vehicles. Price contingencies were
calculated as follows:  for labor and other local costs, 5 percent and 10 per-
cent r .spectively for each of the four years or iplementL iJn; for foreign
costs, 9 percent and 8.5 percent for the first and second years respectively
and 7.5 percent for each of the last two years. No physical contingencies
have been included because the physical components of the project could be cut
back if the need arises.
Project Financing
46.       The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would finance about
37 percent of total project costs, net of taxes. IDA, OPEC Fund, and ADF
together would finance about 84 percent of the cost, net of taxes, represent-
ing 100 percent of foreign costs and about 26 percent of local costs. The IDA
credit would cover a declining portion of incremental operating costs of
routine maintenance, the foreign component of the rehabilitation of gravel
roads and about 60 percent of the cost of consulting services. OPEC Fund
would finance the total foreign cost and part of the local cost of resealing
of paved roads. ADF would finance the total cost of equipment. Fulfillment of
the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the co-financing agreements
with ADF and OPEC Fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit
(Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a)).



- 16 -
Project Implementation
47.       The proposed project is expected to be implemented over a period
of about three and a half years beginning early in 1981 and ending in 1984.
Supported by technical assistance, MOW would have overall responsibility for
executing the project. The Area Engineers (para 34) have many responsibili-
ties other than roads and current wage rates make recruitment of qualified
supporting staff difficult. Therefore, Area Engineers will be assisted by
Area Road Engineers to be provided under the project (para 43(d)) who would
concentrate exclusively on road maintenance. The role of the ARE's upon
completion of the project will be defined following recommendations on the
organization and staffing of MOW by the technical assistance studies. Force
account will be used for regravelling and routine maintenance under annual
work programs prepared by MOW, but resealing of paved roads will be carried
out under contract in order not to overstretch the capacity of MOW in terms of
manpower and equipment. The execution of routine maintenance works will be
closely supervised in each area by road inspectors who will be assigned
specific sections of the network. To ensure effective supervision and coordi-
nation, the Government has (a) appointed a high level civil servant as
project coordinator and (b) agreed to pay adequate compensation for field
expenditures 4ncurred by MOW's staff in carrying out the project (Credit
Agreement, Sections 3.05 and 3.07).
Procurement
48.       MOW's requirements for non-proprietary spare parts (about $2.6
million equivalent including Government's contribution and contingencies),
lubricants ($0.9 million) and materials ($2.1 million) for routine main-
tenance and the rehabilitation of gravel roads would to the extent possible
be standardized and purchased in bulk under contracts awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding following Bank Group Guidelines. A
15 percent margin of preference, or the import duty if lower, would be granted
for goods manufactured in Sierra Leone. Proprietary spares made by the
original equipment manufacturers ($0.6 million), and fuel ($3.9 million) which
is available only from a single refinery, would be procured directly by nego-
tiated contracts satisfactory to the Association. Spare parts and materials
which cannot be conveniently grouped for bulk purchase into lots greater than
US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Association up to an aggregate
amount of $1.0 million equivalent. Minor items of essential and urgently
needed spare parts and materials costing less than US$5,000 per purchase and
aggregating not more than $150,000, would be procured by local shopping or by
direct purchase in the case of a single local supplier. Regraveling and
routine maintenance will be carried out by force account using MOW-s staff.
Technical assistance being provided under the project will assist in the
procurement process.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements from the Credit would be made for:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign costs and 15 percent of the local costs
of consulting services (US$2.7 million);



- 17 -
(b) 67 percent of the cost of spare parts and materials for routine
road maintenance and rehabilitation of gravel roads (US$5.3
million); and
(c) unallocated (US$2 million).
Disbursements would be fully documented except for operating costs under (b)
which would be made against certified statements of expenditure signed by
MOW's project coordinator and by the Senior Highway Engineer, the documenta-
tion for which would be retained by MOW for Association inspection. The
Government will channel expenditures for routine maintenance and rehabilita-
tion through the special account and will appoint external auditors accept-
able to the Association who would audit these accounts annually and submit a
report to the Association (Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
Benefits and Risks
50.       As structured, the proposed project will help in the improvement
of the economic and social life of the rural and urban population. Its
implementation will yield benefits embracing activities   both  in the trans-
port and other sectors, especially agriculture. These benefits will include a
significant reduction in vehicle operating costs, savings from reduced road
reconstruction costs, enhancement of institutional capacity to plan and execute
road maintenance programs and improved access to markets and areas that are
now very difficult to reach due to poor roads. The costs considered in the
economic evaluation include the cost of routine maintenance, regravelling,
resealing, and technical assistance, amounting to 98 percent of project costs.
Appraisal has shown the project to be technically and economically viable with
an economic rate of return of over 100 percent. The principal risks are
that the MOW would not be able to achieve the planned institutional improve-
ments or provide the necessary recurrent funds to increase maintenance output.
However, the project seeks to minimize these risks by the provision of techni-
cal assistance and the gradual phasing-in of the Government s contribution
to incremental operating costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Sierra Leone and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Credit
Agreement are (a) hiring of consultants, satisfactory to the Association, to
assist in the implementation of the project, (b) fulfillment of conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the co-financing agreements between Govern-
ment and co-financiers, and (c) opening of a special account in a local
bank, with an initial deposit of Le 600,000, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association (Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).



- 18 -
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENTATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington D. C.
March 18, 1981



- 19-                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - HOST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
TOTAL             71.7
AGRICULTURAL      63.0                               MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIHATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    ..       150.0    250.0                 260.0                  868.0
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     31.0       127.0      98.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AN0 VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.2          2.7       3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.0        18. 1     23.1                 17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      31.0        38.0      46.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND     35.0        43.0      52.0                82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.8        42.0      43.7                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.0        55.0      53.0                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3. 2        3.0       3.3                  2.8                    2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.2      2.5                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                              3.9         5.5       5.7                 6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        46.0       46.0                47.4                   46. 8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0         22.0      19.0                 19.6                  16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2. 9      2.9                  3.2                    3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF IWRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0        99.0      98. 0                91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        96.0      93.0                 90.2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        47.0      48.0                 53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        14.0      17.0                 18.4                  15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0      27.0                 27.7                   21.3
HEALTE
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-         12.0       *.                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..         75.0       ..                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                              ..         1.0        ..                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        19956.0    18067.0         ..              30910.4                1450P.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5904.0/c   3802.0         ..               5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1312.0      1095.0       ..                1198.9                1141.5
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         6.5
URBAN                              ..         5.7
RURAL                              ..         6.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         2. I/d
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                             2. Oft       ..



- 20 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAES
- HDST RECENT ESTIHATE)- E
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                  23.0         34.0       37.0                  57.7                      61. 7
MALE                  30.0         41.0       45.0                  74.2                      69.2
FEMALE                15.0         27.0       29.0                  54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0       11.0                  10.0                      20.6
MALE                   3.0         13.0       15.0                  13.7                      29.2
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0        7.0                   7. 1                     14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   9.0            3.0        2.0                   6. 8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         32.0       32.0                  45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                           17. 0        21.0       19. 0                 25.2                      24. 3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          7.0         15.0       15.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          9.0        6.0                   3.6                      38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0         15.0       21.0                  31. 5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 2/e       1. 1       2.8                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.0         17.0       10.0                   4.6                      24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1 .1                    ..                    ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        910.5       1055.6    1222.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35. 7        35.0       35.0                  33. 5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               77. 7        71.5       67.0                  80. 7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7         14.8       18.0                   8.1                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42. 1        39.9       38.7                  42.2                      38. 8
14ALE                                 54.6         52.3       51.1                  55.1                      48.4
FEMALE                                29.8         27.7       26.5                  29.5                      29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1. 1        1.2        1.3                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33. 8/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           64.1/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          4. 5/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10. I/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       54.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       78.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       67.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOw ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..       35.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d 1967;  Le 1963;  /f Population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 21 -                                                   ANNIEX I
Pag-e 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL IND.ICATORS
OoezAlthough the doss arc dron  fromll t       .e..etooly judgd- he  os 1ouhottatite and reliable, rc ch-ld nit ho  -td   -.crh   to-                        .5Ih roto
nsoaoc yraIehrneoMh abt   enordhoedeshhsadnopudhI P,                                      yurffo.....u.cr... I'll       hcohuhrun. Tod'ar,ot
sheheus, usefl to descibe orders of nagntnode, sodicane trends, and rhara-t-rse     t-rau   najo  dIloff ero          -s r -
The,, geees  gr.p  ave -1) thI         aelonrlgopn  the nab) co  countr  and (2) acutygopon   oehthgnr,oaoitn   htte.rtrut;
of theIt  ec   ounryfener  f   'aita  Surlu  E5 Fpo--r' getup ther  "riddle.Income  hoc   ..rr  and~  higd-I East" in                             - het he-t  t  urtge
d1.   -   i190if- -tlifishusnd  nqkm.lFIcTneo   e  fh                                                                 rlu-oiato        dot  f'tteh,                rrttpf.
for crps, pasture,  -arhe  and kirohen gsedesn nr no She lal1on; 191? data.                 msIe sod female gtadcctent.uo-, pncs.l ---.oe  -.2  -ns-ute               ots
"Pepistie I'ee Ononltd-sil.ubn   n   ua  - Prosisnlon(otl
li   EtIAPITA (CI)   G P1f pee eapite essiaten ascret   market peines, sal-                 ura,adntl   iie   yterrsetv    abt                              optlbd
osland hy  ame oeeriot method at Wdoid Bash Atlas (1977-19 basis);  90                   seiblei  pahii  adilddb privat  getel.and speisbe   hos.pital and.t
1970, and  919d9ana.16,                                                                          -lb.  ifhihitetle    cetr.d 'dsitul   r   sahssetspraetystf.
-pti- of I-Y                       ~~~~by at   Ist "nI phys-icis.   sEsh.lishme.nts praidgtpinc-ipelly castodial
and lignite, poneoloat, natural gas and hydr-  nucearan  gethrmll  rIte'etrlolpr,etyuate    yapyiia   bnb                                                       edclassat
trosy    o kilogrems of inl  eqloIt pe...ia;160   fO,adZ98.us, mdIge   t. btbofri-ptetuotsosinanIeod 
totl Ppult io,Hi-ea mllos)-A Pof Julyt.; 1960, 1970, and 19798                                diunerttsia -            led -t  fato brathI ohy  adui- elbse to ordlshrs
dftteerns defioitioon  of aebac arias maIpafftrt compatabi-aty of dataitillllF-
among ecpu.ir ins  19h0,-- 190  aod .)-AIo   .y1  16,17,- 19788dhs.                         Av tto.loer   -trsel   hreruocs pe  _oneod)i-II              _te, ura tedmel
lov -, nd  emle litepAsvysthlanga   71  nn.ThIst                                      do     'igsropcleo. ttiog tsfdrc-eoatsuuteasd
tenorstfor fet ,in   raeasI          aetechvetosmn    eln   nUooecup-9odd pacts.d~-
Eahouspi  he s-             edoeo  S  s   ierniatoso   rtls                              Co-vetioeal  oeltins naisAehIfticdis is.l htlo   quater  as~ pecet-ng
and  eriltytrnd       for  enjetis  purose,                                              oo    Pa,ubn  adrtldeleg   epciey
main  cnIto.  this ist aeh-venty   a -tee  Feeofltyr-e  denlIs to                       tAonhte...rholdurfs   atItos -         p..
the relcmn   eela   ntnteerdsierte    htao    enett                                         rmr  school - totalPI'malelan  femle-fbent toa,ml  Andf- le
mere1  MIerhl.                                ciautIienste,bguditet-aJ rlPIi1I- d-eaioo rcrvollnno                                               a   aet lO  pn           d
site  hat  reu reaced.                                                    Secouarynchoo  - sosab  mslr aIdfemale ityompute  a_-b-oo;snr-va-
Prpado  Denslity efd_j   ,jIi~ )Ic..fasio...rg,,leeIs. ath leanfot years oT  nppco"e  primar instuels
total tree,                                                                          usually- tl.  i  I  g-t  ~-  .t1  et. 11  o 1 frars ofae -orepsoeoccre   aeasee
Per sq. Tkm . aer aa ias .h-d C -muye as  bov for agricuturadloland tnued
only.     I.Toistlfontl entoltlm  ni  (                                                                               -reo  rfoaceoy      oainlisioio
PouainAgf       sutre(ecn)- Thiro(II    er)  eneh..t  PP..ieg-age (-l  i                                 -sl-de  tehlel.Idstil,o         other .ptotrau   nbfo   peolr Ivoepe
60 oatt.. and  centredb 161 yearn and ove) st eresdgs  f mid-rearpnrut-                         -eeI-y or    .1 en gepctmot ofI neco=ar  tentfitutao1.
l2io    9 0, 90,0 n   98dt.Pelsaberto-pin, -                                                                           sod terfm dart> f-ilfyI..  .   pII    Tottl. htode-r  enolled611
Ppltio  Growt tae(ecet             ril-asalget  rtso  ttlmd                                  prmr  an :ejondery f.lerels t dIvided         o by number   .f..aheti- Scth
Papi-tr h.nbRae.eret  aban-  oaalgretorte.a  ahaippa                                         Aul  -ieao  ratel (perent1- lL icorere1 adlts(eble tho ea  acsc
itls    o   90h,lh-0  ad17-8                                                                     spretg    f  oa   dl   ouainae  15  Ier   o ove.
frde-li  Ratek lee  thousand) -ti. Apsua  live births- per th hteandof mid-yearf                                                      .--of11.I 
Popaanon   g196, 1970, an,d 191.dtapcts seating I.d..ll                                                    less thanight persons; Ic...lrr.d...moase,  eut  n
Crass Pepi-dAS.a Sa1,te1 - A veese numba   of -aabtrswsantll bear. IaS                         mititary  vehicles.      (                            .-i..Ii-iIi
he6  ora  reprda-tivereid          SIf sb  nnpere      -tn presen   age y-seic fee-         ain Reciver t (per.l tiosnd tporlottoth- Al itpe  c  reeter  far csd
1960peasn;970ll   fieyerad         rgn   udn1is190717,  o  1977.                        broadats no gn ,,tal pa Ifc pe di-aan  ofppicin   o ldsn
obireh _oths  devices...Ia1det               ..sine  o   masion h fsIp plunnif  program   satpint effct  date fa  1e-1r  yearnl may actbe- conpfal  as   sou
famil  PlnigIas(eons fare   ae)-  enoaee    are                                               cAosrle l   hlihet-     cenig
anltipf.tono)hl-e re         g   1-CC yaes  th  use1 hith -t-nirf debiee  top               TOOcives(mtruadppltnl                         ''reovr   o  badatt
al  mried amman insae9g6g0       a.re70                                                            ubi  per  hou97dp7pLtiTo-o  euclade  uotoesrd, TI' -erll,
rodcIce o6al  food1 -onsm97isdt.. Prdoto    slae   ed  s   ee   o                         lct       teuoed   slmrid tou retaring gres  tentg,               PIs islls"Idr
satityna   -uera     pera -ce   pIce  ....s  1961-65, i 1910, en9l7i, .daha7.                 z I           8 I            _E2      _
bsrai~t,  srl  off.   calories(rereetof rgir          fss)-i  Coputed. from      -         and mdatly.units.
oneegp ooiralessof ten lnd sappienuald   l  is.. coannop per o a pita             .. PO9CR     ;dt   -    --         -1   .   l I-P.b.i
pe  dy.av ilablnapplies topledoetcprdcio,lyes  es                               Tta   ao   ore dkuten   foolalyaie   rts,  oido
euot,an !bnr  itsleb R     ei sa bpliru   enloe       ito Fed  seeds,            aretoreon  uepr'n    u   nrtfgho non,erdHs,ec
tentIsnANeD stimatedO byPAl                                                                      I.s.d o  physiologIal needs fo.surmalTnei-  1070 data
fe   aia  upyof p- iei   (ras pee day1697(-00 - Pro  do. co- .en   f  e  capiatfuustr Ipren)-Lao   urehodofolsy   tc,ceu  ctro
necnpply  f fod perday.Set spplyoftfod i ..Idefined asd afo.   R-               tdeeercd,nto ugna  prctsae  ftott    isorflorte - kh
alIII o   0gam   fnsa   rtin -e   a   n p      li, grams ofalrl  n              atrOainRfe(ecnt      oa.   ar  n tomlt-Patiratnc
putlse1 petan  ofl wb-   d10bgam  sould   he anima  peor g. These siad-                     abtost  rae    r dwae   s  at,ot                  n   emi  aorfrea
aeds ort     oerta  tbose.Agl.t ofp1 grams r-  irf    prc=te in so  23. grams  O            perAesge  A1of tctsl.nl  sod female popa-aiBn of atnaoueI pottnof               p
antoral ..r...etsasa -nv prig  Poe  he. world,6popon9d0u  PAd  in7 dst Third               1960  19,lod   17 d     ash.  Th-ne arcdi. dl.i-u a-tltpai-ocoesi         hlo
Per o ty roteinl uafl term animali and Jp51st -Jroei  sappy  rf foodt                  LABORgO-CEnnrcue     h   ouain   u   oger   rn,aOanr
qyed Fre   aimal  nood pulsesingram   peeI.. day  191-1 dtfb1970. andq197  daa           osnclpodryRto-Rtof  popui.gha.o-u-etIt ts                             I      I ado
tries dataderiund fom  life  sales; 1960-1970tand1977 datalDoCO196 IST19BLT-d
oo AlTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  i o
at bith; 160.d171 an  1978dtta
ofag   pe   huadliebrh.estmtdaslt   oetybieLvlty   e   actl-ahrnfnc
o- ou  pplyi o or fotad Pn   locate  sr ope ths .10 eses  rnthue  a  h                       eree  incmeofth  oanto.llbd   lorthrdehod   o  she curs
enoniderid  as being winbin erananable-t accessT' -d of othnttbonee.t.tIn rural -seeas
tesIIal.accss  tad ip            1 that he hoseIf  ory tethers  of the -hasebed             leveluip.ih  Rduset o.Ite.oioflvo   Ic  rca  onetss.-
.,d   lo  ..I tK.. tb... of 75 St-atfate  Poalaion  cio AIflustPvery IcomILeel perent  - ofa
doiot  av  sospn  a- di-eeocnionte p-1  ofpthe- day tAo fecing the h~                       a .. caro  -f rentto   oplto rcd           n"I'rll,bcue  sulotye'
r     -Ie-dl I- lube  o  pope  toal   Peae   ad.rual  seemedS by7 streets      f.                              . i-
pealmy  n lustheouii tcsae   isasldwthortthsttesmer                                                           to tion of Aesoly-s an  Proleeton .trcaetmde.t
Child  1R.t. (P.t th ....dI                      i                        I.b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ucaer  99
rf h  to 4eceyt  en   aseese.bh       atrbrnlyses  rth               Is of
pi rive;      n  simlariet.Pa"iss



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PODUCT IN 1978 P79                                     ANNUAL RATE OF OROWTH (%  1972/73 constant prices)
US$ Mln.                              1968/69-70/71    1970/7l-7/778      1978/79_j/
ON? at Market Prices          871.4        100.0                        7.4                0.9            1.6
Gross Domestic Investment     135.2         15.5                        1.1               -1.2           11.1
Gross National Saving          22.6          2.5                         _               -6.8           -45.0
Current Account Balance      -116.6         13.0
Exports of Goods, MNS         209.7         24.1                       -2.0              -2.0            -3.1
Imports of Goods, NFS        -313.8         36.0                        1.5              -0.6            14.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/79
Value Added                   Labor Force2/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      A                  Nln.       S                    MA $         %
Agriculture                  285.5         35.9              .820       67.0                 348.2         53.5
Industry                     174.1         21.9               .195      16.0                 892.8        137.2
Services                     336.0         42.2              .184       15.0                1826.1        280.7
Unallocated                   -                               .024       2.0
Total/Average        795         10 0              i1.         i                    65u.;5       100.
GOVERNXENT FINANCE
General Govermlent                             Central Government
ln.)         7, Of OGP                   (Le  Mln.)          % of GODFI.c.
I7           197        196-7                  -19_79 -1978/79   1974-1975/76
Current Receipts                                                                    172.8        20.7       17.5
Current Expenditure                                                                 166.0        19.9       16.2
Current Surplus                                                                       b.---B   -U.
Capital Expenditures                                                                 41.6        5.0         5.4
External Assistance (net)                                                            36.2        4.2         4.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1974         1975         1976        1977         1978        1979
(Million Le outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Xoney                     84.6         91.6        111.9       136.2        179.3       214.5
Bank credit to Public Sector 3/           23.0         56.7        107.3       119.7       182.4        252.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector             39.7         41.1         43.7        46.8        64.9         71.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP (m.p.) 17.7          16.0         18.2        18.3         22.0        23 .0
General Price Index (1961 - 100) 4/
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       14.4         19.9         17.2         8.3        10.9         21.2
Bank credit to Public Sector              52.3        146.5         89.2        11.6        52.4         38.4
Bank credit to Private Sector             40.8          3.5          6.3         7.1        38.6          9.4
NOTEr All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Preliminary
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ Credit from the Banking System.
4/ Consumer Price Index (Freetown).
not available
not applicable



- 23-                                           ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(US $ -.llion)
1973-75       1977-79
1974     1976      1979                                 Average   %                  Iww..
(Millions US $)
NYS     ~153.5    120.0    230.0          Minerals                  99.1   74.1   105.8       58.4
Exports of Goods, NbS           213.2      62.5   -304.2          D;amonds                80.4   60.1   597.7       53.9
imports of Goods, NFS          -217.2   -16.    -3.               Iron Ore                14.3   10.7      -         -
Resource Gap (deficit - -)   -                                    Bauxite                  4.4    3.3      8.1       4.5
- 63.7   - 42.5   - 74.2         Agr'l. Commod.            24.8   18.5    64.1       35.4
Interest Payments (net)                                           Coffee                   7.8    5.8    32.5       17.9
Workers' Remittances                                              Cocoa                    8.2    6.1    22.8       12.6
Other Factor Payments (net)  - 18.8   - 25.2   - 40.9             Palm kernels & Prod.   8.8    6.6        8.8       4.9
Net Transfers                    21.9      10.7     28.6        All other Co-modities    9.9    7.4    llj    .6.7
Balance on Current Account    7- 606   -757.0   --W.5                       Total        133.8  100.0   181.1    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        10.3       8.5      7.6             EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing                26.8      16.4     37.0
Disbursements                 38.5     32.3      86.1                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                 -11.7    -15.9    -49.0
Subtotal                      3/.1     24.9      44.6               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             277.6-
Capital Grants                    3.5       5.6      6.7               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 -
Other Capital (net)              10.4       4.3      7.6               Total outstanding & Disbursed             277.6
Other items n.e.i               _..8    - 21   =1C.5                                             I/
Increase in Reserves (+)        - 7.8    -24.3    -43.1              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1979-'
Gross Reserves (end year)        49.2      21.8     46.7
Net Reserves   (end year)        36.5    - 4.9    -26.2                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               22,5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed              2T25
Inporta
of which:  Petroleum         25.3     11.2      67.0 2/
Exports
of which:  Petroleum           -         -       -        IBRDIIDA LENDING,  June 30, 1980 (Million US
tERn        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD        _ID
Outstanding & Disbursed                13.0        27.3
Through     1971                 n          -  1979              Undisbursed                             0.8         6.3
US $ 1.00 '.8297 Le             US a  1.00 - 1.050 Le            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
Le    1.00 -US *1.2053             Le l.00 = US $.9518                                                   13.8        33.6
1/ R4tio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. Excludes debt servicing of Arrears
-    ($8.4 million in principal and $2.8 million in interest).
2/  Preliminary.
not available
not applicable
August 22, 1980
(Date)



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Three Loans and Four Credits Fully Disbursed              13.7    15.8
1138      1975      Sierra Leone      Agriculture II      5.0        -         0.34
573      1975      Sierra Leone      Education II          -      7.3         1.98
734      1977      Sierra Leone      Third Power           -      8.2         0.20
970      1979      Sierra Leone      Technical
Assistance           -     2.5         2.50
Total                                18.7    33.8 2/       5.02
of which has been repaid            5.0      0.2
Total now outstanding                13.7    33.6
Amount sold             0.5
of which has
been repaid           0.5          _
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                       13.7    33.6         _
Total undisbursed                     0.34    4.68         5.02
1/   Net of Exchange Adjustments.
2/   In addition, an IDA credit for US$12.0 million equivalent for the
Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project III (Credit No.
1094-SL) was signed on February 13, 1981, but is not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1981)
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year      Obligor       Type of Business      Loan       Equity       Total
1980      Sierra Cement   Cement and Con-         2.1          --         2.1
Manufacturing   struction mate-
Company, Ltd    rials
(SERACEM)
Total  Undisbursed                     2.1                      2.1



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 573-SL - Second Education Project: US$7.25 million
Credit of July 29, 1975; Effective Date:  Sept. 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project administration continues to be efficient and physical
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts have been
awarded for all civil works, equipment and furniture. Training courses
for technical teachers and community development workers are well estab-
lished and management training programs for private and public sector
staff have recently started at the new facilities constructed under the
project. Curriculum development work for secondary education has been
successfully completed. The only significant project difficulties have
arisen in connection with efforts to strengthen the local capacity for
educational research and planning by providing assistance to the Insti-
tute of Education and the Ministry of Education Planning Unit. The
principal source of this problem is the lack of qualified local staff.
The project includes fellowships to train local staff in these areas,
but selection of suitable candidates to staff these project institutions
has been delayed by the freeze on civil service recruitment. To assist
the Government to finance the local cost portion of the project, the
Executive Directors approved a US$1.0 million EEC Special Action Credit
which became effective July 2, 1980.
Credit No. 568-SL   Second Agricultural Project:  US$5 million
Loan No. 1138-SL    Credit of July 2, 1975 and US$5 million Loan
of July 2, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Eastern Province portion was completed June 30, 1980 and the
Government is now carrying the full cost of maintaining project activities
in that area. In the Northern Province, delays were originally encountered
due to management constraints, but full momentum was later attained and
completion is expected in June 1981. Because of the initial delays and
rising costs, supplemental funds were needed for agricultural inputs. In
addition, the original funds for feeder roads proved inadequate, in part
because roads were built to a higher standard than had been anticipated at
appraisal. To cover both shortfalls, the executive Directors approved a
US$2 million EEC Special Action Credit which became effective July 2, 1980.
A follow up Eastern Area project (Cr. 1094-SL) was approved by the Board on
January 13 and a second phase project for the Northern Area will be presented
to the Executive Directors shortly.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Credit No. 734-SL   Third Power Project:  US$8.2 million
Credit of September 29, 1977;
Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The extension of the King Tom power plant (financed by IDA)
has already been completed and is in operation. Progress is being made in
installation of the 33 kV grid and the new generating units (both financed
by BADEA) for the provincial centers. The financial management consultants
have completed their studies and have submitted their recommendations to
SLEC's management. The feasibility study of the Bumbuna hydroelectric
scheme has been completed. Although some improvement has been achieved in
the technical operation of the corporation, there is no noticeable improve-
ment in its weak financial and management condition. SLEC's financial
problems stem to a large extent from the failure of the Government to settle
its accounts with SLEC and the need for a tariff increase which the Govern-
ment has not yet approved.
Credit No. 970-SL   Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.5 million
Credit of February 8, 1980;
Effective Date: June 30, 1980
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project aims at strengthening the Government s capability in
development planning, the preparation of development projects, the training
of local staff, and the monitoring and evaluation of public investment
programs. It includes: (a) 10 man-years of advisers; (b) 75 man-months of
consultants; (c) training in development planning and project preparation;
and (d) project preparation and prefeasibility studies. Initial project
implementation has been slow due to delay in reaching decisions on the
selection of suitable candidates for the various positions.
Credit No. 1094-SL Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
III: US$12.0 million Credit of February 13, 1981;
Not yet effective: Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project aims at consolidating and expanding the assistance
to small scale farmers in the Eastern Region which was started under the
previous two Bank Group integrated agricultural projects; to further in-
crease food and export crop production by providing agricultural inputs,
credit, extension services, feeder roads and village wells and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture to support and plan future agri-
cultural development projects. The credit was signed on February 13, 1981
and is not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission - June 1976
(b) Appraisal/Reappraisal - October 1977/May 1980
(c) Negotiations completed - February 19, 1981
(d) Planned date of credit effectiveness - 90 days after signature
Section It: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) conditions of effectiveness;
(i) the hiring of consultants, satisfactory to the
Association, to assist in project implementation
(para. 43(d));
(ii) the fulfillment of conditions precedent to effectiveness
of co-financing agreements (para. 46); and
(iii) the opening of a special account in a local bank, with
an initial deposit of Le 600,000, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association (para. 44);
(b) channelling through the special account expenditures for
routine maintenance (para. 44);
(c)  by August 31, 1981 and December 31, 1981, respectively, the
Government to furnish to the Association, for its approval,
programs for the resealing of selected paved roads and the
rehabilitation of selected gravel roads (paras. 43(b) and
Cc));
(d) maintenance equipment to be used exclusively for the
project (para. 43(a));



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) sections of Kenema-Koindu road to be selected for detailed
engineering on the basis of their economic priority following
completion of the feasibility study financed by UNDP (para.
43 (d)); and
(f) agreement on an appropriate level of compensation for field
expenditures incurred by MOW's staff in carrying out the
project (para. 47).






IBR D-V3244R
13-                                                12ANA1*    l 0                                                               |        SEPTEMBER 19C0
EXISTING ROADS:                                                       ~,,~-- 
PAVED    t PRIMARYANDSECONDARY  \D                                      t                                                      B                    ' ,
-      E- - kEDER ROADS                                                                                          /                 BIER    . 1IVORY    \ o ,ISERIA
RAILWAY IDetIncIl                                                         rS
INTERNATIONALAIRPORT
A RSTRIPS ,                   ?*                                                                                                                 0        
DISTRCT BOUNDARIES                            / (                                             /
*   DISTRICT HEADQUATERS
-   - INTERNAT ONAL BOUNDARIES                             S S r-|                              I \                                                                  b, -\
B                                                                                                                  ID, IS.. I b/,   _ KBLA _k / z z >.r.mp On BD B.'pr   BrD lB
/             IP                Th.*OOOS.- OSS,,;  
K- .... G tma- .   O I lfi o
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                    0 01 OrOl rb pAt OP BAM  15AI J
G e nW                                                                                                                      _  Is ,   SO°
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OV                                    OII  y.  /             AU OSI   01 .  S 5 I..S  -,oP,8uX-  f/gr
FREE                                               Umds 91W
SIERRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l lEONE0 0, ,ll OldO,.,IS
Do~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dd
MO  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BBfI                                                                  lO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT ~~~~~~<,    )J Foi MANO,                              C
SO~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~B
Main  Project Roads to be Maintained                                    j\) RU rdl                                                                     7'
Shv   ,0  1,0-20 b0   IKILOMETERS
13I 12° D                             r       o      ioM+Les



