O   I c IAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1129 SL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
between
SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1129 SL
DEVELOPnNT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   L         &'L <2          , 1981, between
SIERRA LEONE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF), a loan (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan) in an amount of about $5,900,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (here'nafter called the ADF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the contributing
parties to the OPEC Fund for International Development (herein-
after called OPEC Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the FUND Loan)
in an amount of not less than $7,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPEC Fund; and
(D) the Borrower, OPEC Fund, and the Association intend
to enter into an agreement (hereinafter called Memorandum of
Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be
provided severally by OPEC Fund and the Association and regulating
certain other matters of common interest in connection with such
financing.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOW" means the Ministry of Works of the Borrower;
(b) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) "Leone" or "LE" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and condttions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Assooiation shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw, on behalf of the Borrower, from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated to Part A (2) and (3) of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) above; provided, however, that any
certificate of expenditure furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for purposes of such withdrawals shall be certified in


﻿-3-
terms of its eligibility for financing under this Agreement
(including compliance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) and accuracy by the engineering consultant referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991, and ending November 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A (2) and
(3) of the Project, open a Special Account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association in a bank acceptable to the
Association. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of goods and services
required to carry out Part A (2) and (3) of the Project.
(c) Without limitation of its obligations under paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall:
(i) deposit in the Special Account the initial amount
of LE 600,000;
(ii) thereafter, deposit in the Special Account, not
later than 30 days after the last day of each
month an amount equal to the aggregate payments
made from such Account during each such month, but
only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on
deposit after such payments and the amount with-
drawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, shall be equal to or exceed, in the
aggregate, the amount of LE 600,000; and
(iii) by September 1, 1982, deposit in the Special
Account an additional LE 500,000 and thereafter
replenish such account in accordance with sub-
paragraph (ii) above, provided that the amount of
each of the deposits to the Special Account,
together with any amount remaining on deposit after
the payments and the amounts withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, shall
be equal to or exceed, in the aggregate, the
amount of LE 1,100,000.
(d) The Borrower shall, prior to, and for purposes of,
carrying out Part A (i) of the Project:
(i) by July 31, 1981 carry out a study, under terms
satisfactory to the Association, in order to
determine the sections of paved roads which shall
be included under Part A (1) of the Project;


﻿-5-
(ii) promptly thereafter, furnish to the Association for
its comments the conclusions of the study referred
to in (i) above; and
(iii) by August 31, 1981, furnish to the Association a
program, satisfactory to the Association, of the
paved roads to be included under Part A (1) of the
Project and the rehabilitation works to be executed
on such roads.
(e) The Borrower shall, prior to, and for purposes of,
carrying out Part A (2) of the Project:
(i) by October 31, 1981, carry out a study, under terms
satisfactory to the Association, to determine the
sections of laterite roads which shall be included
under Part A (2) of the Project;
(ii) promptly thereafter, furnish to the Association fc.
its comments the conclusions of the study referred
to in (i) above; and
(iii) by December 31, 1981, furnish to the Association a
program, satisfactory to the Association, of the
gravel roads to be included under Part A (2) of the
Project and the regravelling works to be executed
on such roads.
(f) The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out Part A
(3) of the Project, furnish to the Association, by September 1 of
each year, until the completion of the Project, a program, satis-
factory to the Association, detailing the routine maintenance
works to be executed in the following twelve months.
(g) The Borrower shall carry out the training programs and
studies included under Part C of the Project under terms satis-
factory to the Association.
(h) Without limitation to paragraph (f) above, the section
of the road from Kenema to Koindu to be included in the study
under Part C (8) of the Project, shall be that as agreed between
the Borrower and the Association based on the conclusions of a
feasibility and preliminary engineering study for the construction
of such road.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, in order to assist the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, employ the consul-
tants and engineers referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
whose qualifications and experience, and terms and conditions of
employment, shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Assotiation may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-7-
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3-05. The Borrower shall put into effect promptly
after the Effective Date and, thereafter, maintain at all times a
program, satisfactory to the Association, to provide adequate
compensation for field expenditures incurred by MOW's staff in the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, as well as MOW's existing
machinery and equipment referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment, to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint, and thereafter
continue to employ, under MOW a high level official in charge of
coordinating and supervising on behalf of MOW, all Project related
matters.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of MOW and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall:
(i) have the Special Account audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Association, covering the fiscal year ending on
June 30 of each year;


﻿-8-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after
the end of the auditing period, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitations to the
foregoing a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Special Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures were used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services performed, and that
such goods, works or services were eligible for
financing under this Agreement and were used in the
carrying out of Part A (2) and (3) of the Project;
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Special Account and the said certif-
icates of expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request; and
(iv) retain, until two years after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures for
the Project on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures and enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine
such record.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all national
roads of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices; and (ii) cause all road
maintenance equipment and workshops of MOW to be adequately
maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof
to be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:


﻿-9-
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADF Loan or the FUND Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) the ADF Loan or the FUND Loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that ADF and OPEC Fund have notified the Association
that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the
ADF Loan and the FUND Loan, respectively, have been fulfilled,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement, if such be
the case;
(b) that the Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association of the employment of
the consultants and experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement; and


﻿- 10 -
(c) that the Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Special Account
has been opened on the terms and conditions referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 to this Agreement, and that the
Borrower has made the initial deposit of LE 600,000 into the
Special Account pursuant to subparagraph (c) (i) of said Section.
Section 6.02. The date    &             is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sec   on 12.2   of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the Geaeral Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
MINFIN
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUl)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By       ~4             r
SAuthori ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/41
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Materials and spare            4,280,000       67%
parts for Part A (2)
and (3) of the
Project
(2) Consulting Services            2,190,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 15% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Unallocated                    1,630,000
TOTAL               8,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to


﻿- 13 -
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures incurred prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(1) Rehabilitation of about 200 miles of paved roads,
consisting in preparation of road surfaces and resealing of
existing pavement.
(2) Rehabilitation by means of regravelling, and periodic
maintenance of about 370 miles of the laterite roads.
(3) Routine maintenance of about 765 miles of paved roads
and 3,660 miles of gravel roads, such maintenance to include
clearing bushes, cleaning ditches and culverts, filling potholes
and maintaining shoulders, bridges and road signs.
Part B:   Improvement of Facilities and Equipment
(1) Remodeling and improvement of one existing facility
to establish MOW's central workshop;
(2) Acquisition and utilization of equipment for MOW's
central workshop and about five regional workshops.
(3) Acquisition and utilization of the road equipment
required to carry out Part A (2) and (3) of the Project.
(4) Acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment
for MOW's laboratory in Freetown.
(5) Acquisition and utilization of spare parts to repair
MOW's road equipment.
Part C:   Training Program and Studies
(1) A training program to improve MOW's road staff
capability to execute road maintenance and rehabilitation works.
(2) A training program to improve MOW's workshop staff
capability to maintain and repair road equipment and machinery;


﻿- 15 -
(3) A study of the contracting industry in the Borrower's
territory.
(4) A study of a new fleet registration system in the
Borrower's territory.
(5) A study to identify and prepare a future highway
project.
(6) A training program for MOW's laboratory staff.
(7) A study on the different road design standards, routine
and periodic maintenance procedures and road rehabilitation
works.
(8) A study on the detailed engineering for the construction
of a road from Kenema to Koindu.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
Sierra Leone may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sierra Leone if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Sierra Leone
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3,
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 18 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost,
after grouping in accordance with paragraph 1.1 of Part A of the
Guidelines, the equivalent of less than $50,000, and, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, in an aggregate value equiva-
lent of up to $1,000,000 shall be awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of spare parts available
exclusively from the original manufacturer of the equipment and
fuel shall be made through negotiated agreements under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $5,000 and in an aggregate value
equivalent of up to $150,000, whose acquisition is urgent and
essential for purposes of an efficient execution of the Project,
shall be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations of
at least two suppliers, provided, however, that, if there is only
one supplier for such goods in Sierra Leone, contracts may be
negotiated directly with such supplier at reasonable prices.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it in-
tends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for Part A (2) and (3) of the Project shall
be executed through force account by the Borrower, acting by
MOW.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants for the Project
(1) An engineering consultant to assist the Borrower in the
overall supervision of the execution of the Project and in the
management of the team of consultants and experts described
below.
(2) A training expert to assist the Borrower in the planning
and supervision of the training programs included under Part C (1)
and (2) of the Project.
(3) Two engineering consultants to assist the Borrower in
the carrying out of Part C (excluding the program under Part C
(2)) and Part B (4) of the Project and in the supervision of the
area engineers referred to in (6) below.
(4) A mechanical engineer consultant to assist the Borrower
in the carrying out of the training program included under Part C
(2) of the Project and Part B of the Project (except Part B (4)).
(5) A transport economist consultant to assist the Borrower
in the carrying out of the studies included under Part C (3), (4),
(5) and (7) of the Project and in determining the road section to
be included in the study under Part C (8) of the Project.
(6) Six highway engineers to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part A (2) and (3) of the Project.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Equipment                                        Amount
Bulldozer 200 HP (D7)                                   2
140 HP (D6)                                   3
Crawler Loader                                          3
Backhoe Loader                                          5
Construction Grader 150 HP                              1
Maintenance Grader 135 HP                              10
Pneumatic Compactor                                     3
Steel Roller (6-10T)                                    6
Hand Compactor                                         10
Tipper 6 cu yd                                         39
Pick-up                                                18
Service Pick-up                                         2
Water Bowser                                            5
Flat Bed Truck                                          7
Low Bed Trailer 25T & Prime Mover                       3
Air Compressor                                         12
Hand Tar Sprayer                                       16
Concrete Mixer                                          7
Concrete Vibrator                                       7
Portable Welding Equipment                              5
Water Pump                                              7


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  p2        day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY


