FROM: The President                                                        August l&2003


                                    REPUBLIC      OF MALI
                     THIRD    STRUCTURAL        ADJUSTMENT        CREDIT
                                   (CREDIT    NO. 3582-MLI)

                       Release of the Third  Tranche - Full Compliance


1.     In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the program
supported by the Third Structural Adjustment Credit for the Republic of Mali, and in compliance
with the specific conditions of release as described in the attached Tranche Release Document,
the Association has informed the Borrower that the third tranche in the amount of SDR 19.6
million (US$25 million equivalent) is available for disbursement.

2      The Third Structural Adjustment Credit for the Republic of Mali is subject to the provisions
of the Bank's former disclosure policy.  As such, and after confirmation with the Borrower, the
accompanying Tranche ReleaseDocument will not be made publicly available.




                                                        James D. Wolfensohn
                                                        President


                                                        By Shengman Zhang




                            Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
                          Country Director:  A. David Craig
                          Sector Managers:   Emmanuel Akpa / JosephBaah-Dwomoh
                            Team Leaders: Christina A. Wood / Patrick Labaste


                                                 Republic of Mali
                                   Third    Structural      Adjustment         Credit
                                            (Credit No. 3582-MLI)
                             Release of the Third Tranche - Full Compliance

                                                 I. BACKGROUND

1        This memorandum summarizes progress made under the Third Structural Adjustment
&edit (SAC III), Credit No. 3582.MLI, for the Republic of Mali and recommends releaseof
the third tranche of the credit. The SAC III, in the amount of SDR 55 million (US$70 million
equivalent), was approved by the Board of Directors on December 11, 2001. The credit aims
to provide balance of payments support to the Government to close the financing gap
stemming from the recent crisis in the cotton sector, enabling the Government to maintain
momentum on its ongoing reform agenda, notably the following priority reform areas: (i)
public expenditure reforms aimed specifically at advancing the Government's poverty
reduction objectives; and (ii) recovery and restructuring of the cotton sector to restore positive
economic growth. By focusing on reforms to improve public expenditure management and
liberalize the cotton sector, the SAC III targets.the programs most critical to Mali's poverty
reduction objectives.

2.       The SAC III is a three tranche operation, and conditions for each tranche release are
specified in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement as amended in December
2002. The first tranche of SDR 19.6 million (US$25 million equivalent) was released on
January 3, 2002 upon credit effectiveness, and the second tranche of SDR 15.7 million
(US$20 million equivalent) was released on December 24, 2002 following Board approval
to an amendment of the DCA. - The third tranche is for an amount of SDR 19.6 million
(US$25 million equivalent).

3        Since effectiveness, the implementation of the reform program as specified in the
Letter of Development Policy for the SAC III, has been satisfactory. The progress made on
macroeconomic management and on the reform program is noteworthy in view of (i) the
difficult    international       context     of    heavily     subsidized         cotton    production        (a recent
studyestimates Mali's         foregone export earnings in 2001 at US$42 million),                          and (ii) the
negative impact of the Cote d'Ivoire crisis on the Malian economy.2

4.       Significant      progress has been made on the overall program, and the specific
conditions for third tranche release have been met. This memorandum presents the actions
taken by the Government to meet the conditions under the SAC III. It recommends that the
Association release the third tranche, providing timely assistance to the Government in


l Goreux, Louis (2003). "Prejudice causedby subsidiesto cotton sectorsin AOC;" (AOC is the French acronym for West
and Central Africa).

2The crisishaveresulted in: (i) the closure of the main transport link for 70 to 80 percentof Mali's externaltrade; (ii) the
collapseof livestockexports(Mali's third most important export which wassold mainly to C&e d'Ivoire), amounting to a
lossof US$12 million equivalent in 2002; (iii) diversion of tradeto other ports in neighboring countries, resulting in an
increasein transportation costs(the cost premium for cotton exports isestimatedat 40 percent); (iv) acollapsein workers
remittancesfrom C&e d'Ivoire; and (v) the return of over 10,000Malians to Mali with many more thousandsexpectedin
the coming months.

weathering the impact of the Cote d'Ivoire crisis and continuing to lay the foundations for
macroeconomic stability and growth.

                                  II. RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

5        Mali reached the Completion Point of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative in March 2003,
in parallel with the approval of its PRSP. These milestones were reached following a
decade-long period of growth and good macroeconomic performance. Despite a number of
adverse shocks, real GDP growth has averaged about 5 percent per annum between 19940
2002, enabling real per capita GDP to rise by 2.5 percent per year. The Malian authorities
have been successful at limiting inflation to single-digit figures and reining in the fiscal
deficit in line with the convergence obligations under the West African Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU)                  regional integration agreement. Mali also made good progress
on revenue generation (Table l), with revenues reaching more than 17% of GDP (well above
the Sub-Saharan Africa average).

6        Mali's macroeconomic performance can be attributed to reestablishment of political
and social stability in the early 1990~,~and to the effective implementation of
macroeconomic stabilization and economic liberalization policies since the 1994 devaluation
of the CFA franc, both of which createdthe foundations of a market-led economy and
encouraged private sector development.4 Recent economic developments have been
influenced, however, by weak performance of the country's cotton sector. The sector, which
achieved impressive growth and significant gains in the world export market share following
the 1994 devaluation, experienced a severe financial and structural crisis in 2000 in the wake
of the falling international cotton price. Coverage of the sector's losses by transfers from the
budget to the cotton parastatal company (CompagnieMaliennepour leDe'veloppementdes
Textiles- CMDT), which have beenexacerbatedby the Cote d'Ivoire crisis, risked derailing
Mali's otherwise satisfactory fiscal and economic performance over a decade-long process
of economic and structural reforms. The emergence of gold as Mali's leading export product
since 1999 fortunately helped mitigate some of the negative impact of the cotton sector and
Cote d'Ivoire crises.

            I                     Table 1: Recent Macroeconomic          Performance                     I
                                                                   1999      2002            2003
                                                                           (estimate)    (projection)
              Real growth rates (%)
                 GDP                                                6.7            97.          -1.1




3This included transition to pluralist democracy(199l-92) andestablishmentof peacein the north of the country
following a period of rebellion (1994).

4This included implementation of the WAEMU common external tariff in January2000, which lowered tariffs to below 20
percent and greatly simplified their structureto four tariff levels.

                                                                 -39

                    Overall fiscal balance, e&cl. grants             -8.7                 -7.7            -9.1
                    Total revenues                                   16.3                 17.7            19.0
             1      Current expenditures                          1  11.6     1           12.9 1          12.6     1
             f External current account (% of GDP)                1           I                 I                  1
                    Excluding: official transfers                 1 -10.8     1           -6.3 I          -8.2     1
                    Including: official transfers                 I -9.3      I           -4.9 I          -7.4     I
             1Other                                               I           I                 I                  I
             r      Inflation (CPI for Bamako) _               -7    -1.2     I            50 I
                                                                                            .              3.8     1
            Sources:  Malian  authorities  and siaffestimates


7         Mali's economic performance remains fragile in view of the economy's vulnerability
to climatic conditions, fluctuating terms of trade, dependenceon ports in neighboring
countries, the concentration of its exports in three primary sector products5,and weak
administrative capabilities. The favorable averagereal growth experienced since the 1994
devaluation masks significant annual volatility.                     Economic growth fell to 3.5 percent in 2001
owing to the cotton sector crisis and difficulties in food crop production, but rebounded in
2002 to an estimated 9.7 percent due to the sharp increase in gold, cotton and cereal
production. GDP growth is estimated to be -1.1 percent in 2003, and is projected to rebound
above 5 percent in 2004 barring additional exogenousshocks.

8         Mali's macroeconomic performance has generally been within the Government's
targets, and it has managed to attract both multilateral and bilateral funds aimed at deepening
structural reforms and enhancing its socio-economic situation. The sixth and final review of
Mali's PRGF concluded in July. 2003 that Mali continued to make good progress in
implementing their Fund-supported program, under difficult conditions. All performance
criteria and indicative targets were met. In view of the negative exogenous shocks in 2002-
03, the authorities would need to adjust expenditures downward (except for priority sectors)
in line with a shortfall in revenues, in order to achieve program and fiscal objectives. The
authorities are committed to pursuing prudent macroeconomic policies over the medium
term and to implementing needed structural reforms, in order to remain on track with the
poverty reduction strategy. The Bank and other donors are providing the necessary support
to the Mali authorities to ensure successful implementation of Mali's poverty reduction
strategy.

                            III.      PROGRESS AGAINST             TRANCHE      RELEASE CRITERIA

9         The General Requirements for Tranche Releases, as spelled out in Schedule 2, Part
A, of the Development Credit Agreement, are:

      a) the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
          carrying out of the reform program.

      b) the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on



5 Gold  and cotton together    comprise     over 80 percent of export earnings,   while livestock - exported  primarily to West
Africa regional  markets - accounts for about 8 percent of export earnings.       Cotton has historically  been the number one
export earner ahead of gold, although      gold has only recently surpassed cotton export revenues and today accounts for about
55 percent of export receipts.

          the basis of indicators agreedbetween the Borrower and the Association.

10.       With    respect to the first requirement, the authorities are on track with                                  the
implementation of the reform program. The status of implementation of the reform program is
as follows:

For thepublicexpendituremanagementcomponent:

     l    With the 2003 Budget, the authorities have introduced a three-year medium term
          expenditure framework               compatible      with      the macroeconomic            framework        that
          integrates not only health and education sector expenditures defined under the
          respective ten-year development plans as required under the SAC III LDP, but also
          expenditures of all other ministries and government agencies;

     l    The functional and technical study to define the specifications for integrating the
          computer systems of the treasury, budget, and financial control departments has been
          completed, and the next action (development and testing of the integrated system)
          commenced in January 2003 as per sc.liedule to ensure implementation of the new
          system during the first quarter of 2004;

     l    The procedures manual for budget execution has been prepared and deemed
          satisfactory by the Bank. The manual will be validated and disseminated, following
          its review by the new committee on procedures in the Prime Minister's office;

     l    Strengthening of internal and financial                  audit functions is evident in the steady
          increase in budget allocation to the concerned units between 2001 and 2003, as well
          as an increase in the number of inspection staff. Continued provision of additional
          resourcesis already envisioned in the 2004 budget currently under preparation;6

          Strengthening the capabilities of the General Accounts Office (i.e., the Sectionde
          Compteof the Supreme Court) is evident in the recruitment of additional personnel
          to increase staff numbers to legally mandated levels;                           the completion of a new
          building with sufficient space to house all personnel; ongoing renovations of the old
          building to house the archives and documents center; and the temporary loan of
          additional staff from the internal audit department to assist in clearing the backlog of
          work, notably the review of the Government's .budget execution reports (the Loisde
          rkglement)for 1996-l 999.7 Additional                   resources were provided to the Accounts
          Office early in calendar 2003, to support its work program.

     For thecottonsectorreformcomponent:

     l    2001 financial statements of the cotton parastatal company Compagniemaliennedes
          de'veloppementdestextiles(CMDT):                   initial qualifications to the accounts noted by



6 It should benoted that, in addition to strengtheningthe audit functions, the authorities would needto ensureadequate
follow up of the audit reportsproduced by theseunits.

7 The Sectionde Compte is reviewing the 1996-99 budget execution reports. Final technicaldiscussionshavebeenheld
with the Treasuryto clarify certain budget lines. Following a final review, the Section would beable to prepare its budget
audit reportsfor submissionto the parliament.

      the CMDT-Board-appointedCommissaireaux Compteswere lifted in August2002
      in responseto CMDT follow-up actions on recommendationsmade by the
       Commissaire

   0  The plan for downsizingof CMDT hasbeenarticulated,comprisingdivestmentof
      non-core activities, including public service missions(infrastructure works, land
      developmentandsupportto socialservices).Thetransferof public servicemissions
      from CMDT to the statewasapprovedonJuly28, 2002by theCouncilof Ministers,
      andthetransferwasmadeeffectiveonJanuary1,2003. As far asthe downsizingof
      the companyis concerned,a redundancyprogram comprising26 percent of the
      workforce(i.e., 596layoffs)wasimplementedin June2003

   l  Preparationandimplementationof a financialrestructuringplan:a first versionof a
      financialrestructuringplanwaspreparedin May/June2002with theassistanceof an
      internationalconsultant.The financialprojectionsfor the 2003/04croppingseason
      will be updated in September2003, when some key restructuring measures
      concerningthe companywill havebeenimplemented(downsizingof labor force,
      actualtransferof servicepublicmissions,etc.);

   l  A new producerprice-settingmechanismfor seedcotton that links to the world
      market price and takes into considerationprices in the sub-regionin order to
      guaranteetheviability of thesectorin thelongrun, wasadoptedby theauthoritieson
      July 5, 2002. Theproducerpricefor the2003-2004croppingseason,which is at the
      samelevel asthe previousseason'sprice, was determinedin referenceto the new
      mechanismandin consultationwith producerorganizations.

   l  The studyon the stagesandoptionsof sectorliberalizationhasbeencompletedand
      thereport discussedwith theBankandotherpartnersin JanuaryandFebruary2003.
      The Governmenthasannouncedits decisionto implementoption 2 of the study,
      which entails the privatization of CMDT through.the creationof three or four
      privately-ownedcotton companies.The Governmentis currently engagedwith
      producersand other stakeholdersto flesh out the second-phasereform program
      spanningthe 2003-2005period, in line with option 2 and leadingto full sector
      liberalization.This processwill be completedwith the assistanceof an investment
      bank(or equivalent),to be recruitedby endcalendar2003. The second-phaseplan
      will needto beformalizedin a newsectordevelopmentpolicy letterto beapproved
      by Governmentduringthefirst quarterof 2004.

I1    As regards the macroeconomicrequirement, progress is satisfactory.           The
macroeconomicframeworkissoundandthePRGF-supportedprogramis ontrack(para.8).

12    The specificconditionsfor releaseof the third tranchefocuslargelyon theprogress
toward implementationof privatizationof two cotton sectorcompanies- Officede la Haute
Valle'eduNiger (OHVN) andHuilerie Cotonni6reduMaZi(HUICOMA) - andonprogressin
preparingthe mediumterm expenditureframeworksparticularlyfor theeducationandhealth
sectors.
13    The SpecificConditionsfor the Releaseof the Third Tranche,as spelledout in
Schedule2, PartC, of theDevelopmentCreditAgreementarethefollowing:

            TheBorrowerhas:

      1. broughtto thepointof sale8:

            a) not lessthan 84%of HUICOMA's shares,pursuantto paragraph13 (ii) of the
                 DevelopmentPolicyLetter; and,

            b) all assetsbelongingto CMDT and OHVN in the OHVN Zone pursuantto
                 paragraph7 (ii) of theDevelopmentPolicyLetter; and,

      2. submittedto theAssociation,areportof theMedium-TermExpenditureFramework
      for theFiscalYears2001-03,integratingtheexpendituresforecastedfor theeducation
      andhealthsectorsunderPRODECandPRODESS,respectively,andconsistentwith the
      Medium-TermMacroeconomicFramework,pursuantto paragraph22(ii) of the
      DevelopmentPolicyLetter.

14.         Progressin implementingthespecificthird tranchemeasuresis asfollows:

      1.a) Brought to the point of salenot less than 84 percent of HUICOMA's shares:
            Fulfilled.
            Thebiddingprocesswaslaunchedon December9,2002. Two companiessubmitted
            technicaloffers in March 2003aspart of the first round of the procedure.Though
            onlyonebid wasconsideredasfulfilling theselectioncriteria, thedecisionwastaken
            by governmentto neverthelesspursuethe biddingprocess.The datefor submitting
            the financial bid is now set to September30, 2003, following a requestfrom the
            remainingbidder to postponethe deadline. In view of the transparencyof the
            processthat hasbeenfollowed so far, andthe fact that only onebidderremainsin
            competitiondespitegovernment'sbestefforts, the conditionof bringingHuicomato
            thepoint of sale(i.e.invitationto negotiate)isdeemedto havebeenfulfilled.9

      1.b) Broughtto the point of saletheginningmills andall other assetsbelongingto the
            CMDT in the OHVN Zone: Fulfilled.
            TheauthoritiesinitiatedthebiddingprocessonSeptember30,2002. Two international
            investorgroupssubmittedtechnicalbids in December2002. By the deadlinefor
            presentationof the financialin February2003,oneof the groupshadwithdrawnfrom
            the process,andonebidder,a US cottontradinggroup,DunavantS.A., submitteda



8As defined in theDevelopment Credit Agreement(DCA), "bring to the point of sale" requiresthe Borrower to have
taken the following steps: (i) prepared anddistributed investment memorandafor the relevant statecompanies;
(ii) solicited offers directly or through advertisement(s)in appropriate newspapers,under terms andconditions agreedupon
betweenthe Borrower and the Association; (iii) evaluatedthe offers and selectedthe bidder(s) (if any); and(iv) invited the
successfulbidder(s)(if any) to enter into good faith negotiations.

9 Perthe ProcurementGuidelines (paragraph2.59), "bidding documentsusually provide that Borrowers may reject all bids.
Rejectionof all bids isjustified when there is lack of effective competition, or bids are not substantiallyresponsive. Lack
of competition shall not bedetermined solely on thebasisof the number of bidders. If all bids arerejected,the Borrower
shallreview the causesjustifying the rejection andconsidermaking revisionsto the conditions of contract, designand
specifications,scopeof the contract, or acombination of these,before inviting new bids."

                                                  -7-

               bid. After consideringthe amountoffered to be very low, the governmentinvited
               Dunavantto Mali in earlyMay to discussapossibleimprovementof theirbid. Shortly
               followingthesediscussions,Dunavantindicatedtheir inabilityto maintainor improve
               their financialbid and withdrew from the process. On June 12, the government
               declaredthebiddingprocessunsuccessful.In view of theabove,thetransparencyof the
               process,andthe bestefforts of governmentto bring theseassetsto the point of sale
               despitethe unfavorableeconomicenvironment(essentiallythepoliticalcrisisin Cote
               d'Ivoire),theconditionhasbeenfulfilled.**

         2. Submittedto the Association,a reportof theMedium-TermExpenditureFramework
               for the Fiscal Years 2001-03, integrating the expendituresforecastedfor the
               educationand health sectorsunder PRODEC and PRODESS,respectively,and
               consistent with the Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework, pursuant to
               paragraph22(ii) of theDevelopmentPolicyLetter: Fulfilled.
               As alreadynotedabove,the authoritiesimplementeda medium term expenditure
               framework(MTEF)with the2003Budgetthat alsospecifiedmediumterm envelopes
               for eachof theministries. In addition,theauthoritiespreparedsectorMTEFsfor the
               healthandeducation,which are currentlybeingimplementedin line with the 2004
               budgetpreparationcycle.      e


     15        As regardsthecottonsectorreforms,theauthoritiesarecontinuingtheefforts toward

.    privatizationandliberalizationof thecottonsector,andareexpectedto initiatetheprocess
     to recruitaninvestmentbank(or equivalent)by October2003to overseeprivatizationof the
     CMDT. Furthermore,theOHVN Zonebiddingprocessis expectedto bere-launched,as
     wouldtheHUICOMA processif it is not concludedsuccessfulduringthecurrentfirst round.
     A follow-on operationwill ensurecontinuedsupportto, andmonitoringof, thereform
     process.

     VI 0      CONCLUSION

     16        All conditionsfor thereleaseof theThirdtrancheof the Third StructuralAdjustment
     Credithavebeenmet. Overallexecutionof theprogramis broadlysatisfactory.The
     macroeconomicframeworkisconsistentwith theobjectivesof theprogram. Implementation
     of thepublicexpendituremanagementreform andcottonsectorreform programsarealsoon
     track. TheGovernmentof theRepublicof Mali hasthereforebeenadvisedthatthe Third
     tranche,in anamountof SDR 19.6million isnow availablefor disbursement.



     WashingtonDC
     Augustl&2003




     `* Refer to previous footnote.


