                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 29606-MLI

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (IDA-35820 H-0690 TF-50895 TF-52827)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                                 FOR A

                            THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                                (SAC III)




                                              June 30, 2004




PREM 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2004)

           Currency Unit = CFA FRANC
CFAF 720 (November 2001) = US$ 1.00
                 US$ 1.00 = CFA 535

          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                   Metric System

                  FISCAL YEAR
            January 1 -    December 31

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 BCEAO         Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
   CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
   CFAF       CFA Franc
   CMDT       Compagnie Malienne pour Développement des Textiles
    DCA       Development Credit Agreement
      EU      European Union
   HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HUICOMA       Huilerie Cotonnière du Mali
     ICR      Implementation Completion Report
     IDA      International Development Association
     IMF      International Monetary Fund
  IPRSP       Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     LDP      Letter of Development Policy
   LSDP       Letter of Sector Development Policy
    MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
   MRSC       Mission de Restructuration pour le Secteur Coton
   MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
   OHVN       Office de la Haute Vallée du Niger
 PASAOP       Agricultural and Producer Organizations Project
      PR      President's Report
   PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
   PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
   PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
  SAC III     Third Structural Adjustment Credit
      TA      Technical Assistance
 WAEMU         West Africa Economic and Monetary Union



          Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
        Country Director       A. David Craig
          Sector Manager       Robert R. Blake
       Task Team Leader        Christina A. Wood

                                             MALI
                                         ML - SAC III


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P072785                                                  Project Name: ML - SAC III
Team Leader: Christina A. Wood                                       TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ML - SAC III                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-35820; H-0690;
                                                                                                     TF-50895; TF-52827
   Country/Department: MALI                                                                Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (58%); Crops (26%); Health
                            (8%); General education sector (8%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Other accountability/anti-corruption (S); Other financial and private
                            sector development (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/16/2001                                     Effective: 12/21/2001                01/03/2002
     Appraisal: 09/17/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/11/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALI/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Multilateral: IMF              Bilateral: Netherlands, France

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 A. David Craig
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake & Mary                         Emmanuel Akpa & Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                                Barton-Dock
Team Leader at ICR:             Christina A. Wood
ICR Primary Author:             Karen Hendrixson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No



Under ICR Preparation guidelines, rating of Institutional Development Impact is not being implemented at this
time.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) supported two ongoing sets of actions that were critical
to Mali's poverty reduction strategy: (i) reforms to restructure the cotton sector to enhance efficiency and
restore economic growth; and (ii) reforms in public expenditure management to improve the efficiency
and transparency of budgetary operations and enable more effective poverty reduction. This
three-tranche credit of SDR 55 million (US$70 million equivalent) was designed to provide much-needed
balance of payments support to enable the government to close the financing gap caused by a recent
crisis in the cotton sector, while maintaining momentum in implementing these reforms and avoiding cuts
in social expenditures. The credit was approved on December 11, 2001, and became effective on
January 3, 2002, following ratification of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) by Mali's National
Assembly.

While the cotton sector crisis was the immediate context for SAC III, the credit's broader context was
Mali's dual economic and political transition dating from the early 1990s. Since that time, the country
had undergone a steadily improving socio-economic performance, as characterized by a transition to
pluralist democracy (1991-92); establishment of peace in the North following a period of rebellion (1994);
and effective implementation of sound macro-economic, structural, and institutional reforms following the
1994 devaluation of the CFA-franc which had created the foundations of a market-led economy. In
reflection of these reforms, average annual GDP growth from 1996-99 was 4.5 percent, enabling per
capita GDP to rise annually by just under 2 percent.

In preparation for regional economic integration under the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU), Mali also implemented comprehensive tax reform (1999) and adopted a common external
tariff, lowering import duties (2000). Mali's noteworthy progress in achieving macro-economic stability
and implementing structural and social policy reforms was signaled in September 2000, when the country
reached the completion point under the original HIPC Initiative and the decision point under the
enhanced HIPC Initiative. Despite these advances, Mali at the time of SAC III remained one of the
poorest countries in the world, with limited resources; heavy export concentration (cotton, gold, and
livestock accounted for approximately 91 percent of exports in 2002) and an accordingly high
vulnerability to exogenous shocks; weak administrative structure and poor infrastructure; land-locked
status; susceptibility to periodic drought; and high rates of poverty (estimated at 63.8 percent in the 2001
household survey).

In light of these weaknesses, SAC III was tightly focused on supporting on-going reforms in just two
areas ­ recovery and restructuring of the cotton sector, the most important economic sector, and
strengthening public expenditure management ­ while providing balance-of-payments support to the
government. These objectives were clear and realistic, and by focusing on reforms in these areas, the
SAC III targeted the reforms most critical to Mali's poverty reduction program, and was therefore highly
responsive to the country's circumstances and development priorities. SAC III's tight focus also reduced
the complexity of the operation by limiting the number of components, the project's geographic
dispersion, and the number of primary institutions involved (primarily the Treasury, Budget Office, and
Section des Comptes ­ the external audit agency ­ for the public expenditure measures, and the Mission
de Restructuration pour le Secteur Coton ­ MRSC, for the cotton sector).



3.2 Revised Objective:
Program objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
As outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP), SAC III supported three components: satisfactory
macro-economic performance; the cotton sector recovery and restructuring program; and a program of
public expenditure reforms. These components are discussed below.




                                                     - 2 -

Macro-Economic Performance:           SAC III provided balance of payments support to the Malian
government. As with all structural adjustment operations, SAC III required satisfactory macro-economic
performance, although there were no tranche conditions linked to specific macro-economic outcomes.
The first tranche of SDR 19.6 million (US$25 million equivalent), disbursed upon effectiveness, covered
approximately one third of Mali's balance of payments shortfall for the FY2001 fiscal year, with the
remainder covered by the IMF and bilateral donors.

Cotton Sector Recovery and Restructuring Program. This component was aimed at restoring the
cotton sector ­ the country's main source of economic growth and income generation ­ to a sustainable
path of growth and making it more competitive following a crisis in production in 2000 (see Box 1). This
crisis had the largest impact on farmers in rural areas, and by focusing on reforms in the cotton sector,
the credit directly supported Mali's poverty reduction goals.[1]

As outlined in the President's Report, the cotton sector recovery program consisted of a short-term action
plan designed to:     address the sector's most urgent problems; rapidly restore output and farmers'
incomes during the 2001-02 crop season; and prevent the social and other consequences that would
result from the sector's further deterioration. The measures to be adopted under this short-term plan
would prepare the stage for a more comprehensive and longer-term reform of the cotton sector to a
competitive, market-driven sector structure, to be undertaken in the 2003-05 period, following completion
of SAC III. Notably, the government's short-term and longer-term cotton sector policies were developed
using extensive consultation with cotton farmers (see Box 1).

The short-term action plan supported by SAC III had the following elements: (i) an emergency financial
rescue plan for the cotton parastatal, the Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles
(CMDT) that covered the company's cash deficit and the projected operational loss for the 2001-02
season; (ii) audits of the CMDT accounts and completion of studies to define the longer-term
liberalization program; (iii) preparation of the first package of liberalization measures, including
privatization of the Huilerie Cotonnière du Mali (HUICOMA), the cottonseed oil subsidiary of the CMDT,
and the ginning mills and other assets belonging to the CMDT in the OHVN/Kita zone; and (iv)
restructuring of the CMDT to refocus its operations on core activities (cotton ginning and product
marketing), while divesting its collection and marketing activities. This last element would require the
sale of non-core assets, sub-contracting non-core services to the private sector and/or farmer
organizations, and preparation of a social plan to meet the costs of staff downsizing. Implementation of
these measures would set the stage for the second stage of the reform program, following SAC III, during
which the CMDT would be broken up into several separate entities and privatized.

Public Expenditure Reforms for Poverty Reduction. This component sought to improve the linkage
between government expenditures and national poverty reduction objectives, and promote the efficient
and effective use of public resources, particularly in regard to poverty reduction. Building on reforms
implemented under the Bank's Economic Management Credit (Cr. No. 2894), SAC III focused on three
areas: improving budget preparation; improving budget execution; and strengthening monitoring,
transparency, and accountability.

Improving the Budget Preparation Process: As outlined in the LDP, the government's strategy was to
improve budget preparation by applying harmonized regional procedures, in accordance with WAEMU
public finance rules and regulations; better integrate the three national budgets (the annual current
budget, an investment budget, and a program budget); and improve the classification of expenditure
items to ensure conformity with development objectives and poverty reduction actions. Specifically, the
government planned to prepare and approve a nomenclature text used for the local administrations (the
Collectivités locales) that was compatible with the national accounting nomenclature (Nomenclature
comptable de l'état), thereby improving expenditure consolidation and enabling the more effective
tracking of expenditures. In order to better link the budget process to development objectives, the
government planned to fully develop a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF), compatible with
the macro-economic framework, that integrated education and health expenditures. This would be
followed by the preparation of a MTEF that integrated the expenditures of other priority sectors, as
defined in the government's forthcoming (in May 2002) Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).


                                                    - 3 -

 Box 1. Mali's Cotton Sector Crisis

 Following devaluation of the CFA in 1994, Mali experienced a rapid growth of cotton production and exports, but beginning
 in 1998 Mali's economic performance was undermined by the weak performance of the cotton sector. The sector's
 impressive growth from 1994-98 shielded the sector's monopolistic inefficiencies, in particular, the increasingly poor
 performance of the cotton parastatal company ­ the Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles (CMDT),
 which had high internal costs and inadequate governance and financial control mechanisms. When prices for cotton lint
 declined sharply in 1998, the CMDT proved unable to respond effectively to the shock and began generating operating
 losses. As the government covered these losses by transfers from the budget to the parastatal, this crisis threatened to
 undermine Mali's satisfactory fiscal and economic performance resulting from the reforms undertaken in the 1990s.

 While the government responded effectively to this crisis in early 2000 ­ including prosecuting the CMDT CEO for
 corruption, freezing investments and controlling costs, and launching internal audits ­ the CMDT's financial difficulties led
 it to announce a purchase price in May 2000 of only 160 CFAF/kg, versus a 200 CFAF/kg price in neighboring countries.
 The subsequent farmers' boycott resulted in nearly a 50 percent fall in production, increased losses at the CMDT, and a
 significant drop in rural family incomes.

 In response, the government and the CMDT began a process of extensive consultation with cotton stakeholders. The CMDT
 negotiated an agreement with farmers in 2001, laying out the obligations of the government and the CMDT vis-à-vis cotton
 farmers; unfortunately, it came too late for the 2000/01 season, and in August 2000 the government requested an adjustment
 operation. In February 2001, a specialized unit was created in the Prime Minister's Office to oversee cotton sector
 restructuring (Mission de Restructuration pour le Secteur Coton -- MRSC) utilizing regular consultation with farmers.
 Finally, the government's short-term and long-term reform programs were developed through a national forum (Etats
 généraux du cotton), held with stakeholders in April 2001. In particular, this program reflected farmers' preference for a
 gradual approach to the reform program to enable capacity building of farmers' organizations to manage functions such as
 input supply, credit, and eventually ginning.

Improving Budget Execution: Budget execution was to be improved by addressing the most pressing
weaknesses that affected the poverty reduction program. First, expenditure functions would be
strengthened through the development of formalized procedures and preparation of a procedural
manual, in order to reduce expenditure processing times. Second, the flow of information between the
treasury, budget, and financial control departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance would be
strengthened through the development and implementation of a software program that would
interconnect departments within the Ministry, thereby raising the efficiency of information flows and
record keeping.

Strengthening Monitoring, Transparency, and Accountability: To improve governance and transparency
in the management of public finances under SAC III, the government planned to strengthen government
control and inspection services; reduce the processing time of the monthly Consolidated Treasury
Balance statement to a maximum for 45 days; and strengthen the capabilities of the Section des
comptes of the Supreme Court to facilitate more timely audits of budget reports.

Linkage of Component Design to Objectives: Design of the Credit's components was clearly linked to
the general objectives described in Section 3.1 above. By restoring the health of the cotton sector, the
credit in the short-term would reduce the CMDT's financial drain on the budget, restore farmers'
confidence in the government; and boost cotton production, thereby raising rural incomes; SAC III would
also set the stage for further reforms to increase the sector's competitiveness in the longer-run.                        The
public sector management reforms would enable the increased efficiency and effectiveness of
expenditure management, enabling the better tracking and more efficient allocation of poverty-related
expenditures, and therefore would contribute to the government's poverty reduction goals.

The operation explicitly incorporated the lessons from the previous SAC I and SAC II. These lessons
were (i) government commitment should be strong and sustained; (ii) the institutional and
implementation capacity required to implement the reforms should be programmed over a sufficiently
long period; and (iii) upfront conditionalities prior to tranche release are appropriate for an adjustment



                                                             - 4 -

operation. These lessons were incorporated in the following manner: (i) as noted above, government
ownership of the reforms was strong; (ii) targeted support to cotton farmers was provided under a
separate credit ­ the Agricultural Services and Producer Organization Project (PASAOP, Cr. 35830-MLI),
reflecting past experience that a separate targeted operation was a better instrument for institutional
development than a TA component accompanying a SAC; and (iii) an array of measures were completed
by the government prior to project negotiations and disbursement of the first tranche.[2]

3.4 Revised Components:
The DCA was amended one time, subject to the board's non-objection in December 2002, in order to
transfer the two partially completed second tranche conditions ­ bringing to the point-of-sale the oil seed
company, HUICOMA, and the CMDT cotton ginneries in the OHVN/Kita zone -- to the third tranche. This
amendment meant that the divestiture targets of the third tranche no longer applied.[3] The amendment
decision was based on the fact that the other tranche release conditions had been satisfied and the
government's performance on the public expenditure reforms was fully satisfactory, and broadly
satisfactory ­ with the exception of the two sales, which were underway ­ on the cotton sector reforms.[4]
Moreover, changing external circumstances necessitated tranche release to assist the government to
cope with the growing budgetary impact of the Côte d'Ivoire crisis (which closed the road to Abidjan, the
transit point for 70-80 percent of Mali's trade). Although the government had reduced expenditures
(except for those relating to poverty reduction) to reflect the shortfall in revenues, a financing gap of
US$61 million equivalent remained.          Disbursement of the second tranche of US$20 million, in
conjunction with additional funding from the international community, would enable the government to
close this gap.

The crisis in the Côte d'Ivoire, as well as depressed cotton prices, increased the uncertainty of the Malian
cotton sector investment climate. The decision to amend the DCA and move these sales to the third
tranche, rather than seek a waiver of these conditions, was based on (i) the Bank's assessment that the
point-of-sale targets would be met, and probably no later than June 2003, the credit closing date; and (2)
that "point-of-sale" as a final tranche actually reflected best practice in the Bank, particularly in light of
the uncertain investment climate.

This confidence in meeting the point-of-sale targets was broadly validated in that the targets were
ultimately met; however, they were not satisfied until August 2003, following an extension ­ at the
request of the Malian authorities -- of the original closing date to December 30, 2003 to give them
sufficient time to complete these actions. The decision to make point-of-sale, rather than divestiture, a
final tranche conditionality was also preferable because while the government could be held responsible
for reaching this stage, it had little control over the final step; in fact, neither of these transactions
proceeded beyond the point-of-sale stage. As such, the amendment of the DCA was not a sign of a
softening of the Bank's terms, but rather a sign of Bank flexibility to avoid penalizing the country for
performing ably under the impact of dual exogenous shocks.

The closing date was extended for a second time ­ to June 30, 2004 ­ after a supplemental grant was
approved; this extension was necessary to keep SAC III active during the supplemental grant
implementation period (the supplemental grant is discussed further in Section 5.4 below).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on (i) the credit's consistency with Bank and government
priorities, as well as the ongoing program with the Fund supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF); (ii) quality of the design; (iii) mitigative measures to safeguard against any negative
economic and social impacts, and to strengthen financial accountability: and (iv) the credit's largely
successful anticipation of risk. Each of these is discussed below.

Consistency with Bank and Government Priorities:              The credit was directly supportive of the
Government's priorities, broadly consistent with the CAS objectives, and closely linked to the IMF's
lending program. The credit directly reflected the government's priorities and development strategy as
set forth in the LDP, and was mutually designed by both the Bank and the Borrower. Government
ownership of the reforms was very high, particularly in the cotton sector, as signified by its




                                                     - 5 -

consensus-building with sector stakeholders. SAC III was also compatible with Mali's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), submitted to the IMF and Bank Boards in mid-2000, notably with the
I-PRSP's goals of growth and income generation; human development; and good governance. As set
forth in the President's Report (PR), the credit's design clearly articulated the linkage between
macro-economic performance, public sector expenditure reform, and the government's poverty reduction
goals.


The credit directly built upon two previous adjustment operations, which successfully supported reforms
in the macro-economic incentive system and public resource management, as well as measures to
improve competitiveness. SAC III was also broadly compatible with the Bank's assistance strategy to
Mali, as set out in the FY98 CAS (for FY99-01).[5] This strategy, which was closely linked to the
government's development agenda, had a strong poverty focus with two strategic priorities: (i) stable
economic growth; and (ii) sustainable human development. As the CAS preceded Mali's cotton sector
crisis, it did not anticipate the need for reforms to the sector; nevertheless, reforms to stabilize and
increase the efficiency of this sector would clearly contribute to stable economic growth, in light of this
sector's importance to the Malian economy. Similarly, SAC III's focus on improving public expenditure
management in order to increase the efficiency of public service provision, particularly in health and
education, clearly contributed to sustainable human development, and was also consistent with the CAS
focus on enhancing the allocation and efficiency of public expenditure while protecting social spending.
In addition, the public expenditure management reforms to be implemented under the Credit were both a
continuation of an ongoing reform program supported by the Bank under previous successive operations,
and explicitly reflected international best practice in public expenditure reform.[6]

Finally, SAC III was highly consistent with the Fund's ongoing (commencing in August 1999) three-year
PRGF-supported program in Mali, which focused on the fiscal aspects of public expenditure
management (efficient use of HIPC and other resources) and restoring cotton sector viability (measures
impacting on government transfers to the sector). Structural measures under the PRGF program in
these sectors were coordinated between the Bank and the Fund, and the cotton reform program and
sector strategy were also developed through joint technical discussions between the two institutions and
the government in May-June 2001.

Quality of the Design. The quality of the credit's design was highly satisfactory. An adjustment credit was
appropriately selected as the mechanism for addressing Mali's financing gap arising from the crisis in the
cotton sector. Although processing the operation as a PRSC lending instrument was considered, an
adjustment credit was ultimately selected (by pre-appraisal in September 2001) because its quicker
processing time would enable the client to more rapidly access the balance of payments support urgently
needed by the country. The credit's narrow focus on just two components reflected the Bank's reform
experience in Mali under the previous CAS (1995-97); namely, that reforms of a cross-cutting nature
(e.g., capacity building), and with sensitive political connotations, required to time to mature, to become
accepted, and to be carefully implemented.

Lessons from cotton sector reform programs in other countries were also incorporated into the credit
design; specifically, the need to focus credit design on achieving the necessary steps for implementation
success, rather than achieving a full liberalization date; and the importance of strengthening farmer
organizations to facilitate their participation in the new competitive environment.        It was correctly
recognized that an adjustment operation was not an adequate instrument for monitoring such micro
operations as empowering cotton farmer organizations; as discussed above, these were instead
addressed through a targeted cotton component in a complementary operation, PASAOP, which was
submitted to the board at the same time.

A matrix and timetable of policy outcomes was set forth in the PR, but the Credit was not linked to
specific quantitative targets. As noted, release of both the second and third tranches was linked to the
completion of specific reform actions. Tranche conditions listed in the DCA were cross-referenced with
specific paragraphs in the LDP, reflecting the close mutuality of purpose between the credit and the
government's program.




                                                      - 6 -

Consistency with Bank Safeguards: Consistency with Bank safeguard policies is typically not an issue
for an adjustment loan. Nonetheless, several specific measures were undertaken to address the Credit's
potential environmental and social impacts, and to address financial accountability issues. Although as
an adjustment operation, an EA for SAC III was not applicable,[7] and an assessment of the
environmental impact of the cotton recovery program judged the environmental impact as likely to be
minimal (because no major expansion of cultivated area was expected), several mitigative measures
(regarding fertilizer and pesticide use) were nonetheless incorporated into the PASAOP loan design.
Action plans to mitigate any environmental impact from the HUICOMA and OHVN area privatizations
were also incorporated into the privatization documents for those entities.

To address the likely personnel layoffs stemming from the reform and restructuring of the CMDT, the
government committed to preparing a Social Action Plan to fund the anticipated layoffs and facilitate the
transition of those losing their jobs. This plan was subsequently implemented. Financial assessment and
accountability issues were to be addressed through the Bank's ongoing dialogue on the implementation
of measures to improve accountability, including completion of a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) in FY02-03 and a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) in FY04, which
identified key policy measures needed to strengthen financial management.             Additional measures
included the creation and staffing of a General Auditor position in 2003, and strengthening of the
Accounts Section of the Supreme Court in preparation for its transition into a Court of Accounts in 2004.

Assessment of Risk: The President's Report identified three potential risks to the operation. These
were: (i) weak institutional capacity could delay implementation; (ii) preparation for the 2002 elections
could detract from the reform focus; and (iii) the persistence of a deterioration in the terms of trade
beyond 2001 could delay the cotton sector's return to financial viability.

Several measures were introduced to mitigate the risk posed by weak institutional capacity. These
included the provision of technical assistance to assist the government with preparation studies for the
cotton reform program, and almost daily interaction with the government to provide advice and assist the
program to move forward. In addition, other donors were also providing technical assistance to facilitate
progress on the public expenditure program, and capacity constraints did not significantly impede
implementation of these reforms.        The credit failed to note, however the potential risk that donor
assistance to the MRSC ­ the small unit which was the key implementing agency for the cotton sector
reforms ­ might not be provided as pledged. In fact, at one point, the future of the MRSC was at risk
because there was no secure funding for the agency. Ultimately, the agency's inability to cope with all
the demands placed on it was a significant contributing factor to the delays encountered in the cotton
sector reform implementation, although overall, the agency was instrumental in implementing and
monitoring progress under SAC III.

The risk to the reforms posed by the preparation for the election was successfully addressed through
careful sequencing of the cotton restructuring program. Preparatory studies (e.g., a social plan for the
CMDT downsizing, plans for spinning off CMDT's non-core activities) were undertaken in the period prior
to the election, while more politically sensitive actions, such as the HUICOMA privatization, were
deferred to the post-election period. This risk was not an issue for the public expenditure management
reforms, which by their nature were not sensitive to the electoral cycle.

The final risk ­ that of persistently adverse terms of trade for cotton ­ was to be addressed in 2002 in the
context of the development of a long-term financial recovery plan for the sector. Given the unanticipated
and precipitous drop in the international cotton price below the cost of production (as a result of cotton
subsidies in developed countries), it was not really possible to devise a long-term plan capable of
addressing such artificially low prices; instead, efforts focused on short-term efforts to cut losses while
maintaining the price stability necessary for a recovery in cotton production. Subsequently, however, a
three-year financial plan was developed.

One risk that was not considered, but which had substantial impact on Mali's macro-economic
performance in 2002-03, was that a political crisis in Côte d'Ivoire could deny Mali access to the port of
Abidjan. While this event did occur ­ and with substantially deleterious effects on the Malian economy ­



                                                     - 7 -

its occurrence, duration, and the severity of its impact on the region were not truly foreseeable at the
time of credit design.
__________________________________________
[1] Although quantitative data were lacking at the time of the Credit's design (as more up-to-date information on
poverty incidence would not become available until early 2002, following completion of the 2001 poverty
assessment survey) qualitative data indicated that poverty reduction among the poor, including cotton producers,
had suffered a setback as a result of the crisis in the cotton sector.
[2] In the cotton sector, these were: (i) submission of an independent financial report containing CMDT's projected
operational account and cash-flow for the 2001/02 cropping season; assessing the effectiveness of implementation
of cost-saving measures by the company during the 2000-01 season; and identifying additional cost-saving
measures that could be realized in the short-term, as well as a set of indicators to monitor implementation of those
measures. In the area of public expenditure management, these were submission of: (i) the monthly consolidated
Treasury balance statement for the period ending June 30, 2001; detailed consolidated budget statement of
expenditures by functional Ministry (rather than by budget chapter); and a detailed budget statement of expenditures
of HIPC resources; (ii) documentation showing links between the 2002 current and investment budgets; (iii) a
synthesis document showing the distribution of the 2002 budget allocation by function; and (iv) a document
identifying all budget lines (in addition to the HIPC expenditure lines) that were attributable to the government's
overall poverty alleviation program.
[3] SAC III was originally designed ­ and endorsed by the ROC ­ as a US$50 million, two-tranche operation. In this
design, bringing these assets to point-of-sale was a final tranche conditionality. Falling world cotton prices and the
generally worsened terms of trade in the aftermath of the September 2001 attacks, however, as well as an explicit
request from the client, led to an increase in the credit amount to US$70 million. This larger amount was
incorporated into the program by adding a third tranche requiring, for the cotton sector, the divestiture of
government ownership of these assets.            The point-of-sale requirement then became a second tranche
conditionality.
[4] The second tranche conditions that were satisfied were:           maintenance of a satisfactory macro-economic
framework; adoption of the nomenclature for the Collectivités Locales; and completion of the monthly Consolidated
Treasure Balance Statement within the requisite 45-day processing period.
[5] The previous CAS period was extended because the PRSP on which the new CAS would be based would not be
available until 2002. Moreover, given the certainty of the change of government following the legislative and
Presidential elections scheduled for mid-2002 (since the President had reached the tem limit), preparation of the
new CAS prior to the elections would have undermined government by-in of the CAS.
[6] Best practices in terms of having the following four characteristics: prioritization, transparency, credibility, and
incorporation of incentives and sanctions.
[7] As the operation was subject to OD 8.60 and not to OP 4.01.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This credit is rated satisfactory as it achieved all its objectives, albeit with some delays in the cotton
sector. This outcome is noteworthy, given that SAC III was implemented in the context of unfavorable
rainfall in late 2002, which lowered cereals and cotton output; a continued depression of cotton prices,
owing to heavily subsidized global production which caused international cotton prices to reach their
lowest levels since 1972-73;[8] and the substantial economic impact of the Côte d'Ivoire crisis (see Box 2
below).

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Credit's outcome in terms of each component is discussed below.

Macro-Economic Performance: This component is rated satisfactory. After falling to 3.5 percent in
2001, real GDP growth rose to 9.7 percent in 2002,[9] as cotton production recovered from depressed
levels and gold output reached a new high. Owing to the impact of the Côte d'Ivoire crisis and stagnant
cotton prices, however, GDP growth fell to -0.4 percent in 2003, but macro-economic performance was
maintained within targets in 2002 and 2003 under the Mali's PRGF-supported arrangement with the
Fund. Average annual inflation ­ which was projected in the PR to fall to 2-3 percent, remained high (for
Mali) in 2002, at 4.9 percent (compared to 5.2 in 2001) before falling to less than one percent in 2003.
The fiscal deficit was contained in accordance with the convergence obligations under the WAEMU



                                                          - 8 -

regional integration agreement. Revenue generation was also significant, with revenues reaching more
than 17 percent of GDP, well above the sub-Saharan average.

 Box 2: Macro-Economic Impact of the Cote d'Ivoire Crisis

 Beginning in September 2002, civil strife in Côte d'Ivoire resulted in the closure of the Bamako-Abidjan road. Prior to this
 crisis 70-80 percent of Mali's trade passed through Abidjan. The resultant cost of diverting trade to other ports in the region
 (equivalent to a 40 percent cost premium for cotton exports alone), and the collapse of livestock exports to Mali's primary
 market (amounting to a loss of US$12 million in 2002), had a substantial negative macro-economic impact.                  As a
 consequence, real GDP growth was reduced by an estimated 0.5 percent in both 2002 and 2003, owing to lower growth in
 trade, construction, and public works. In the external sector, the resultant delay in the shipment of cotton exports lowered
 GDP by the equivalent of 1.2 percent of GDP in 2002. As a result of the collapse in cotton and livestock exports, the current
 account deficit (excluding official transfers) widened from a minus 5.8 percent of GDP in 2002 (using the old national
 accounts methodology) to an estimated minus 10.3 percent in 2003.

 Fiscally, there was an estimated shortfall of tax revenue of 1 percent of GDP in 2002 (primarily from lower import duty
 receipts and domestic value-added tax payments). Additional fiscal impacts in 2003 came from tax exemptions granted to
 assist enterprises harmed by the crisis and a delay in increasing the special tax on petroleum. Finally, additional negative
 economic repercussions resulted from the return of over 40,000 Malians from Cote d'Ivoire and a collapse in workers'
 remittances, which fell by 30 percent between 2001 and 2002. While the road officially reopened in May 2003, traffic was
 slow to recover owing to security concerns and security fees imposed on each truck journey.

Mali's sound macro-economic policies enabled the country to reach the completion points under the
original and the enhanced HIPC Initiative in September 2000 and March 2003, respectively; the country's
PRSP was also approved by the Bank and Fund boards in March 2003. The debt relief provided under
the Enhanced HIPC Initiative enabled the debt sustainability ratio to drop to an acceptable level. In
accordance with the SAC III's objectives, cuts in social sector expenditures critical to poverty reduction
were not only avoided, but these expenditures rose steadily during the credit period, from CFAF 80
billion in 2002 and CFAF 102 billion in 2003, to a proposed CFAF 118.5 billion in 2004.

Cotton Sector Recovery and Restructuring Program. As noted above, this component consisted of a
narrowly focused, short-term action plan designed to address the sector's most urgent problems, rapidly
restore output and farmers' incomes, and prevent the social and other consequences that would result
from the sector's further deterioration. Implementation of this plan would then set the stage for the
implementation of a more comprehensive reform program, to be implemented beginning in 2003,
following SAC III completion. In light of the fact that these objectives were met, this component is rated
satisfactory.

The following aspects of the short-term plan were successfully introduced: Important progress was made
in terms of improving the CMDT's management, reducing its cost structure, and narrowing its focus on
core activities. A plan for downsizing the CMDT was implemented, albeit with a six-month delay as a
result of discussions to determine the size of the compensation package. Implementation of the
downsizing plan led to the transfer of the company's public service missions to the government in
January 2003, and a reduction in workforce by 26 percent (i.e., 596 layoffs) in June 2003. The CMDT's
agricultural extension services and a portion of its trucking services were also divested in that year. As a
consequence of these actions, the CMDT's credibility with the banking sector has been restored

In addition, the government adopted in July 2002 a market-based mechanism that set the producer price
for seed cotton based on movements in international cotton fiber prices, as well as taking into account
sub-regional producer prices. This mechanism was partly used in the 2001/02 crop year, following
consultation with producer organizations. Notably, the price for the 2001/02 season, which was 10
percent less than that of the previous year, was announced prior to the elections, indicating the strength
of the government's commitment to the reform program.                       As projected in the SAC III PR, cotton
production ­ which had dropped to 243,000 tons in 2000/01 ­ rebounded in the 2001/02 crop season,
reaching 571,000 tons, and accordingly raising the income of Mali's 3.3 million cotton farmers, the
second poorest socioeconomic group in Mali, accounting for 30% of the population.




                                                             - 9 -

Two other key areas of the short-term reform package, relating to the privatization of the cottonseed oil
company, HUICOMA, and the offer for sale of the CMDT assets in the OHVN/Kita zone, were less
successful. While both companies satisfied the point-of-sale conditions required for tranche release,
these were satisfied only after considerable delay; more importantly, neither company was ultimately
privatized.[10] The bidding process for both entities was subject to delays owing to a number of factors,
[11] including:   (i) in the case of HUICOMA, there was an initial delay caused by technical discussions
between the Bank and the MRSC in August/September 2002 regarding the method of sale, and a
subsequent decision to conduct additional studies on the best method; (ii) institutional weaknesses of the
MRSC, in terms of limited staff resources to develop and implement the bidding process; (iii) time
needed by both the MRSC and the Bank to review technical bids and for the Bank to provide (for
HUICOMA) a "no objection" at each stage of the process;[12] and (iv) in the case of HUICOMA, several
requests for extension by the bidder. Finally, the unfavorable market environment due to the Côte
d'Ivoire crisis and depressed cotton prices had an overall negative impact on the privatization process.

As discussed in Section 3.4, delays in meeting the point-of-sale conditions for these entities led to an
amendment of the cotton conditionalities and an extension of the credit closure date by six months to
end-December 2003.         While clearly much of this delay and subsequent amendment was due to
exogenous factors, it is clear in retrospect that the proposed four-month timetable for reaching the
point-of-sale for each entity was clearly too ambitious, particularly given the institutional weaknesses of
the MRSC (discussed below) and the difficulties encountered in a number of other public enterprise
divestitures in Mali.[13]

Moreover, while exogenous factors no doubt affected investor interest in HUICOMA, the privatization
format was sub-optimal. In an attempt to create greater government ownership of the sale, the Bank
acquiesced to two decisions by the government: (i) at the time of credit negotiations, to sell HUICOMA
in the form of shares, rather than through the sale of company assets, which would be more compatible
with the longer-term strategy for the subsequent break-up of the CMDT; and (ii) a decision not to use an
investment advisor to facilitate the sale -- consequently, there was no professional intermediary to
overcome differences between the authorities and the buyer during negotiations to move the sale
forward. This approach likely affected the number of companies submitting bids and impeded completion
of the sale to the one bidder that met the selection criteria, and as a consequence contributed to the
failure to move this entity out of government hands.[14]

While the outcome of these privatizations is disappointing, these assets represent only a very small
portion of the value-added in the sector; in addition, failure to privatize these assets did not pose a
setback to SAC III's overall objective of restoring cotton sector growth. A more disappointing outcome is
the government's failure to fully adopt and commit to a plan to privatize the CMDT within the time frame
envisioned under SAC III, namely, by 2002, setting the stage for implementation of comprehensive
reforms beginning in 2003. In accordance with the credit's short-term action plan, a study on sector
liberalization options was completed. Following consultation with producers and other stakeholders, the
MRSC proposed that the government privatize the CMDT through the creation of three to four privately
owned cotton companies (identified as "option 2" in the study), with the assistance of an investment
advisor, and to fully liberalize the sector over 3-4 years. Furthermore, the authorities agreed to the
action of adopting option 2 set forth in the Aide-Mémoire of the February 2003 mission. Subsequently,
however, this consensus broke down as the authorities decided to sell the CMDT as a single entity
(option 1), against the advice of the Bank, other development partners and the MRSC, before
re-coalescing again in June 2003 on the original approach, and subsequently commencing discussions to
engage the IFC as an investment advisor.

Judged from the perspective of SAC III implementation performance ­ which required only the
development of a detailed study on the options for full liberalization of the sector ­ this is a satisfactory
outcome. Judged from a broader developmental perspective, however, the delay from this reversal
resulted in a loss of six months in moving towards the longer-term reforms to be undertaken after SAC
III. Moreover, the subsequent 7 to 8 months spent negotiating the terms of reference for the IFC as an
investment advisor has not only resulted in additional delay, but has sent a less than positive signal to



                                                    - 10 -

the private sector and international community regarding the government's intent and commitment. As a
consequence of these delays, comprehensive reform of the cotton sector has been delayed. In addition,
implementation of the new price-setting mechanism, which was partially introduced in the 2002/03
season, has not been completed, owing to government's misunderstanding of the mechanism;
consequently, there is a lingering risk that the government budget might again have to cover CMDT
deficits should cotton prices again fall precipitously, therefore casting doubt on the sustainability of this
operation (discussed in Section 6 below).

Public Expenditure Reforms for Poverty Reduction. This component is rated highly satisfactory. All
the planned reforms were fully implemented on schedule. These reforms were ambitious in scope,
particularly in light of: (i) the time inherent to changing procedures and practices; and (ii) Mali's weak
implementation and institutional capacity. Moreover, the successful implementation of these reforms is
notable from a poverty alleviation perspective; in light of the fact that government revenue in the
short-term is unlikely to undergo rapid growth, improved expenditure management will be critical to
achieving the country's poverty reduction goals. The following measures were implemented:

Improving the Budget Preparation Process: The budget preparation process was improved, moving
towards a system that will be capable of solidly linking public resource allocations to the poverty
reduction objectives in the country's development programs.         Beginning with the 2003 budget, the
authorities introduced three-year budget allocations for all sectors, compatible with the macro-economic
framework, and prepared MTEFs for health and education, to be followed by MTEFs for rural
development and public works/transport sectors.         These MTEFs will enable improved intra-sectoral
prioritization of expenditures in accordance with poverty reduction objectives. A new budget classification
system, which uses a budget nomenclature for the local level that is compatible with the national
nomenclature, was also implemented, thereby enabling budget consolidation across all government
levels and allowing better poverty-oriented monitoring. This is particularly significant in light of the fact
that an increasing share of social expenditures is being managed at the local level.

Improving Budget Execution: The efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure execution was
improved under SAC III. The technical and functional specifications for integrating the computer systems
of the treasury, budget, and financial control departments was completed, and development and testing
of the system commenced as scheduled in January 2003.                 The new system was successfully
implemented in early 2004, making it possible to monitor the different phases of public expenditure from
a unified database accessible to the budget, financial control and treasury departments of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, thereby improving budget management, facilitating record keeping and controls,
and improving information flows between these departments. In addition, the procedures manual for
expenditure functions was completed, endorsed, and is currently in use.

Strengthening Monitoring, Transparency, and Accountability: Financial transparency and managerial
accountability in the use of budget resources were improved. Internal and financial audit functions were
strengthened through increased budgetary allocations to the key units between 2001 and 2003 and
through an increase in the number of inspection staff. Additional resources were made available in
2004. Similarly, budget transparency and accountability was improved by strengthening of the
capabilities of the General Accounts Office (the Section des Comptes) of the Supreme Court.[15] Finally,
in addition to preparing monthly treasury balance statements, the government now also prepares and
distributes a quarterly note on the country's economic and financial conditions. Notably, these measures
complement other Bank-supported measures to improve public expenditure management.[16]

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                     - 11 -

As an adjustment operation, SAC III was not expected to have significant institutional development
impact. Nonetheless, the development of an integrated information system linking treasury, budget, and
financial control departments has had an important capacity building impact in terms of improving the
budget execution, budget monitoring, and communication capacity of these departments.
________________________

[8] By one estimate, these subsidies resulted in foregone export earnings of $42 million for Mali in 2001 alone.
[9] For consistency with the President's Report and other documents associated with SAC III, GDP data used here
utilize the old national accounts methodology. Using the new national accounts methodology adopted by the
WAEMU in 2003, GDP growth in 2001 was 13.3 percent, falling to 4.4 and an estimated 3.5 percent, respectively,
in 2002 and 2003. The differences in GDP are primarily due to the recording of crops at the time of production,
rather than at the time of sale, which has the effect of moving the recording of most crops up by one year.
[10] In the case of the CMDT assets, two groups submitted technical bids in late 2002, but one withdrew in
February 2003, and the other in May 2003.             In June 2003, the government declared the bidding process
unsuccessful. For HUICOMA, while two bidders initially submitted bids in December 2002, only one bid was judged
to have met the selection criteria.    Although the government would have been justified (under Bank procurement
guidelines) in declaring the process non-responsive, which would have met the point-of-sale requirement necessary
for tranche release, the authorities asked for a financial offer to demonstrate a "best effort" attempt to sell the
assets. Final negotiations ultimately took place late-2003 and early-2004, before being declared unsuccessful.
[11]   For example, the bidding process for the CMDT assets was initiated in September 2002, and three
international investor groups were notified of their eligibility. While it was originally anticipated that the point-
of-sale would be reached by end-December 2002, the bidding process did not actually commence until that time,
and technical bids were not submitted until March 2003 (rather than November 2002, as anticipated).                  For
HUICOMA, the bid process was launched in December 2002 and it was anticipated that the point-of-sale would be
reached by end-March 2003; in fact, the technical offers were not submitted until March 2003, and the financial bid
was not received until September of that year, following requests by the bidder to postpone the submission date.
[12] Since the HUICOMA sale was not a Bank-financed transaction, Bank no-objections were not formally required;
however, the government sought no-objections at various stages of the HUICOMA sale process to demonstrate to
the Bank that a best effort was made to sell the assets.
[13] For example, privatization of the Kalana gold mine operation took three tender offers between 1999 and 2002;
and the first two tender offers launched for both the railway company and for the well operations (Operation Puits)
were unsuccessful.
[14] This outcome may, in fact, prove more optimal in the medium- to long-term. One, it could lead to a more
efficient privatization process for the entire cotton sector; in that these assets could now be privatized as an integral
part of the CMDT privatization, providing investors with more favorable opportunities to purchase ginning and oil
processing assets jointly within selected geographical areas.           Even if privatized separately from the CMDT
divestiture, a second attempt at the HUICOMA sale could be restructured into a more optimal format. Two, the
combination of the Côte d'Ivoire crisis and depressed international cotton prices were a substantial deterrent to
investors in 2002-03; both these factors may be ameliorated in the second phase of the cotton restructuring
program. Nonetheless, while the outcome may be more optimal, it is only circumstantially so and does not reflect
positively on the Bank's capacity to undertake risk assessment.
[15] Strengthening measures included: an increase in staff to legally mandated levels (from 9 to 15 judges);
completion of a new building with sufficient space to house all personnel; and renovation of the old building to
house the archives and documents center. In addition, a temporary loan of additional staff from the internal audit
department was made to assist in clearing the backlog of work, in particular the review of the Government's budget
execution reports (the Lois de règlement).
[16] These include creation of a Vérificateur Independant, similar to a general accounting office, as part of the
HIPC Expenditure Tracking Assessment; planned implementation of the recommendations contained in the CFAA;
and government's preparation of a referendum to create an independent Cour des Comptes (a judicial court), by
separating the section des comptes from the Supreme Court.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were two major adverse factors outside of the government's control.                      These were:       (i) the
continued depression in world cotton prices; and (ii) the political crisis in the Côte d'Ivoire. These had a
substantially negative budgetary, fiscal, and GDP impact, necessitating additional donor financing to
ensure the country's macro-economic stability and maintain social sector spending. These factors did
not affect the implementation and outcome of the credit's public expenditure components, but they did



                                                          - 12 -

affect implementation of the cotton sector reform program by deterring potential investors from
expressing interest in the sale of HUICOMA and CMDT's assets. A positive factor outside of the
government's control was the timely provision of additional balance-of-payments assistance by donors to
help Mali cope with these adverse factors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Two sets of factors, both affecting implementation of the cotton sector program, were under the
government's control: (i) the capacity and role of the MRSC; and (ii) decisions regarding the design of
the privatization program. The MRSC is a small unit which is responsible for a large agenda.
Consequently, decision-making and technical reviews were subject to delay as a result of the MRSC's
inadequate resources. In addition, while the unit has consistently demonstrated a capability to handle
technical issues in a timely manner (within the constraints posed by its resource limitations), cotton
sector policy is determined at the Cabinet level; as a consequence, delays in decision-making at this
level sometimes slowed the MRSC's ability to respond to technical issues in a timely fashion. More
seriously, the MRSC lacks authority within the government, and its advice on technical issues was
sometimes ignored, to the detriment of sound decision making.

The delay in the development of the long-term cotton sector reform program -- caused by the
government's reversal of its decision to proceed with option 2 of the CMDT privatization program, and
the subsequent reversion back to that option -- was a factor subject to the government's control. A final
factor subject to government control was the sub-optimal format for the HUICOMA privatization, which
resulted from the government's decisions on how to structure the sale.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The unit in charge of the integrating the computer systems of the treasury, budget, and financial control
departments provided highly effective technical support enabling the interconnection of these
departments as scheduled.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A supplemental grant of SDR 10.5 million (US$15 million equivalent) was approved by the Board under
the Streamlined Procedures for adjustment operations in December 2003. The purpose of this timely
supplemental operation was to support Mali in managing the economic impact of the Ivorian crisis and
the insufficient rainfall in 2002. The program document supporting the supplement demonstrated not
only the macro-economic and financial need for additional financing, as necessitated by exogenous
events, but also clearly showed that such financing was in close compliance with specific Bank
requirements for such financing to be approved.[17]           Likewise, the rationale for grant financing, as
opposed to a loan, was specifically addressed in the program document.

This additional balance-of-payments support was warranted by the unforeseeable and exceptional fiscal
and budgetary impact of the continued civil strife in Côte d'Ivoire and continued depression of world
cotton prices, leading to an additional financing gap of US$58.3 million. The supplemental was an
appropriate use of IDA grant resources, given the severity of the economic impact, the country's solid
economic policies, and cooperative relationship with the Bank, and was not due to any inadequacies in
project design, objective, or implementation. Moreover, supplemental grant financing was envisaged in
the 2003 CAS (discussed July 2003) to enable the financing gap to be covered and to support the
priorities of the PRSP. Other donors ­ notably, the EU, the Netherlands, France, and Sweden -- also
contributed additional financing at this time.
__________________________
[17]    Under OP13.20 governing supplemental financing, these specific requirements were:              exceptional
circumstances; covenant compliance; unavailability of alternate sources of financing; inadequate time to process a
freestanding Bank operation; and Borrower commitment to the program.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:



                                                      - 13 -

Many of the measures enacted under the SAC III are likely to be sustainable, in part due to Bank
operations building on SAC III. Sustainability of the public expenditure reforms is likely, aided by the
government's commitment, as set forth in the PRSP, to further strengthening budget execution and
public expenditure management as an essential component of its poverty alleviation effort.
Sustainability will also be directly aided by the next phase of public finance reform measures included in
SAC IV, including strengthening public expenditure management at sub-national level, and strengthening
the links between budget formulation and the macro-economic framework through a global MTEF, as
well as by Bank support of the implementation of the fiduciary actions listed in the CFAA and CPAR
assessments.      Finally, by demonstrating that the efficiency of public expenditure management is
increasing, the government will strengthen the likelihood of the continued provision of external
assistance that is critical to continued macro-economic stability.

In the area of macro-economic stability, future sustainability is supported by: (i) the commitment and
ownership evidenced by successive Malian governments to the implementation of macro-economic and
structural reforms;[18] (ii) the government's strong committment to its poverty reduction objectives, and
explicit recognition in its PRSP that continued macro-economic stability is a prerequisite of successful
poverty alleviation; and (iii) Mali's recent negotiation of another PRGF-supported program with the Fund
signals the government's intent to continue to move the reform agenda forward.[19] Finally, sustainability
should be supported in 2004 by implementation of the Bank's proposed SAC IV and the Sources of
Growth Project, which will build upon SAC III. Despite these positive factors, however, macroeconomic
stability is potentially undermined by the questionable sustainability of the cotton sector reforms, as
discussed below.

The sustainability of the cotton sector reforms is called into question by the slower-than-anticipated
implementation progress toward privatizing the CMDT. As a result of the government's initial deviation
from the agreed privatization approach, and the time lost as a result -- combined with the months spent
determining the terms of reference for the IFC as an investment advisor -- the privatization process has
not yet commenced. Sustainability is also called into question by the weak implementation of some
complementary measures; notably (i) the failure to transfer resources to the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport to cover the rural roads program previously carried out by the CMDT; and (ii) incomplete
implementation of the new price setting mechanism owing to the government's misunderstanding of the
mechanism.

On the other hand, if cotton prices do not collapse and these implementation weaknesses can be
strengthened (and the Bank is currently working with the government on these issues), a number of
factors do point towards sustainability. They include: (i) the government's explicit recognition that the
timely implementation of the next stage of cotton reforms will aid the effective implementation of the
PRSP; (ii) the on-going and consultative nature of the reform process and IFC's (or other entity's)
provision of advisory services (assuming an agreement is signed) to the CMDT privatization process;
(iii) the proposed SAC IV and proposed Agriculture Diversification and Competitiveness Project will
support further cotton sector reforms, building on what has been achieved under SAC III; and (iv)
perhaps most importantly, the stakeholder consensus for the most far-reaching of the sector reforms ­
privatization of the CMDT, which would have been unthinkable several years ago ­ appears to have
solidified.

Nonetheless, sustainability of the cotton sector reforms would be better ensured if the CMDT
privatization was farther along.       In addition, the overall sustainability of any operation in Mali is
continually threatened by the fragility of the country's economy and vulnerability to exogenous factors,
including: (i) natural risks such as drought or pest infestation that will continue to threaten agricultural
production, with concomitant macro-economic impacts;             (ii) until further export diversification is
achieved, the economy will remain highly susceptible to adverse changes in the terms-of-trade; (iii) as a
land-locked country, market access may again be negatively affected by the region's political
environment, with adverse economic consequences; and (iv) Mali's high level of dependence on donor
support makes its macro-economic performance highly susceptible to shortfalls in donor contributions.
[20]




                                                      - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the fragile nature of Mali's economic and institutional development, donor assistance will be the
key source of support to ensure effective project operation. Donor support to the government's growth
and diversification efforts will be important. Bank lending to this end includes the Sources of Growth and
the Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification projects, both in FY05. Bank lending under the
proposed SAC IV, and Fund lending under a new PRGF-supported facility, will ensure continued support
to -- and monitoring of -- Mali's macro-economic structural reform performance, while also supporting
implementation of further cotton sector reforms and the development of MTEFs for other key sectors.
Assuming the IFC or other investment advisor is selected, advisory services will also steer the CMDT
privatization process over the next 2-3 years, while funding by other donors will support budgetary
operations.
____________________________

 [18] The sustainability of government commitment is also arguably supported by the formation of a multi-party
government in October 2002 which will help maintain the consensus critical to implementing further reform.

[19] The last PRGF arrangement expired in August 2003. The new PRGF-supported program was approved by the
Fund Board on June 23, 2004.

[20]  For the past four decades, official development assistance has on average been equivalent to 20 percent of
annual GDP, and has represented 80 percent of the Special Investment Budget.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank lending performance is satisfactory. As noted, loan identification and design was compatible with
the CAS; built directly on the outcome of previous adjustment operations and incorporated the lessons
learned from these operations; and was consistent with the government's development strategy. The
Bank worked closely with other donors and the IMF on the credit's design, particularly regarding the
cotton sector reforms. Credit appraisal correctly assessed the government's commitment and capacity;
recognized the most likely risks; and appropriately selected an adjustment operation as the ideal lending
mechanism.

Concept meetings effectively tightened the loan's focus prior to Board submission, particularly in terms
of strengthening the credit's focus on improved monitoring, transparency, and accountability; ensuring
that any potential environmental impact would be adequately addressed; strengthening the conditions
that had to be met by the government prior to negotiations; and strengthening the tranche
conditionalities. Finally, the credit met the five-month standard for time elapsed between appraisal and
board presentation.

There was strong team continuity on this operation.            The cotton team leadership was continuous
throughout credit preparation and implementation.            While the current Country Economist did not
participate in the initial identification and preparation, she did join (in June 2001) prior to the preparation
of the President's report and submission of the program to the Decision Review Meeting.


7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervisory performance is rated satisfactory. SAC III implementation was monitored through four
supervisory missions, conducted jointly by macro-economic and rural sector staff. Bank supervision was
also aided through the Bank's Country Office in Bamako, which was strengthened in mid-2002 through
the addition of an economist who, together with the rural staff, subsequently had almost daily contact
with the authorities on the SAC III program, particularly on the cotton program.                Macro-economic
performance throughout the 2001-03 period was also closely supervised by the Fund through Article IV




                                                      - 15 -

consultations and periodic reviews in the context of Mali's PRGF-supported arrangement.

Bank-Fund cooperation was very close, as evidenced by collaboration in design of the cotton sector
reform program and cotton structural conditionalities under the PRGF program and subsequently,
through four parallel supervisory missions.[21] The Bank and Fund have also collaborated in reviewing
Mali's public expenditure management performance and classification of poverty and HIPC
expenditures.

Bank coordination with other donors was also very close from the onset of SAC III, and was tightened
further through the course credit implementation.[22] Although the Bank led the cotton policy dialogue
and program design, other donors were extensively involved in the development of that strategy and
monitoring the strategy's implementation, and linked their disbursements to those of the Bank. Other
donors were also supporting the public expenditure management reform program. Coordination with
donors was conducted through a variety of formal and informal fora, including periodic meetings between
the government and donors, including the Bank, and monthly meetings between donors.

Bank performance in lending and implementation was weakest with regard to the terms for the
HUICOMA privatization; specifically, the Bank's acquiescence to the government's preference to sell
shares in the company, rather than to sell company assets, and to not hire an investment advisor. At the
time, these well-intentioned decisions were made to increase government ownership of what turned out
to be a highly transparent privatization process, and therefore to hopefully ensure its ultimate success.
In retrospect, however, this decision may have contributed to the failure to complete this transaction.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

During project preparation and appraisal, the Borrower was fully committed to the reform program and
showed a high level of ownership and commitment to the mutually proposed package of economic
reforms. In particular, the government worked hard to restore confidence between the farmers and the
CMDT, and the cotton sector reform program was developed through close consultation with the relevant
sector stakeholders. The public expenditure reforms were part of an ongoing reform program agreed
upon between the Bank and the borrower.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Commitment to the credit's broader poverty reduction goals was maintained despite democratic
elections, held in 2002, which led to a change in government. Upon taking office in on June 8, 2002, the
new President strongly endorsed the prior government's poverty reduction strategy, as set forth in the
PRSP, and which committed the government to the SAC III goals of re-orienting the CMDT around core
cotton sector activities and improving public expenditure management so as to improve the governance
and transparency of public finances.

In response to the Côte d'Ivoire crisis, the government acted promptly to facilitate the re-routing of trade
through alternative ports in the region; to find new supply sources for key products such as petroleum; to
strengthen customs operations at relevant border posts to handle the additional traffic and intensify
custom tariff collections; and to ensure priority access procedures for key imports.           Finally, the
government took effective action to offset the budgetary impact of the Côte d'Ivoire crisis, by reducing
non-poverty related spending, thereby ensuring that poverty reduction goals were protected.

With regard to the short-term cotton sector reforms, the economically and politically sensitive program
stayed broadly on track. Commendably, the privatization processes, while ultimately unsuccessful, were
highly transparent, and the government demonstrated a good faith effort to go beyond the minimum
requirements needed for tranche release in an attempt to complete the sale of HUICOMA. Delays did



                                                    - 16 -

occur, but these can be attributed in part to actions by the bidders themselves and by the Bank.
Nonetheless, government's performance is less commendable in terms of the resource weaknesses of
the MRSC, and that entity's lack of authority on technical issues.                Government implementation
performance can also be faulted for the delays incurred in finalizing the approach for privatization of the
CMDT and delays in signing an investment advisor.

Finally, project implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The individual government units charged with implementing the SAC III reforms showed effectiveness in
implementing the reforms. As noted, the MRSC was technically capable; in addition, the Treasury
department handled the Treasury balances and nomenclature reforms ably, and the Malian information
systems unit provided very good technical support to the computer interconnection and completed this
system implementation on a timely basis. The budget review capabilities of the Section de Comptes,
while initially weak, were strengthened through the addition of resources during SAC III.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
___________________________
[21] In March 2002, November 2002, April 2003, and September 2003.
[22] Donor cooperation in Mali is unusually close. In the late-1990s, Mali was chosen by the OECD's Development
Aid Committee (DAC) as a pilot country to improve coordination between donors. This led to the development of
several institutional mechanisms and working groups that both formally and informally coordinate aid between the
donors and the Malian authorities. In 2002, complementarity with donors was also supported by the Bank's
participation in the preparation of the UN's Development Assistance Framework for Mali, which focuses on
promoting the harmonization of donor support for the PRSP.

8. Lessons Learned

SAC III enabled the Government of Mali to move forward with its reform agenda and its poverty reform
objectives in the context of a difficult economic environment. Lessons learned from this operation are:

(i) Policy-based lending has been an effective mechanism of support in Mali, but structural adjustment
credits may not be the best mechanism for supporting public enterprise divestitures. Privatization is a
complex process which is inherently prone to delays, even when governments are fully committed to the
outcome. Given the fragility of Mali's economy and high vulnerability to exogenous shocks, linking
balance of payments support to divestiture actions means that even well-performing governments can be
held hostage to unintended and unanticipated delays, thereby forcing the Bank to either amend its
conditionality, or to penalize the government for good performance under difficult circumstances.
Moreover, this linkage can produce less favorable privatization outcomes, as it increases the bargaining
power of bidders who perceive ­ rightly or wrongly ­ that the Bank wants the sale to move forward at any
cost, or that the government is so anxious for tranche release that it will accept any terms.

(ii) Focus on best practices in privatization: While privatization is not an exact science, the development
community has a very good idea of what best practices are in the divestiture process, and these should
be adhered to and the focus should remain on the ultimate objective of transferring assets to the private
sector. By agreeing to a privatization format for HUICOMA that had a weak market or technical rationale
(i.e., selling shares in a national monopoly rather than sales of separate assets), the Bank supported a
process that would not only be anti-competitive in outcome, but which was also likely to be markedly less
attractive to potential investors; similarly, the Bank's acquiescence in the government's decision not to
use an investment advisor, in a country fraught with capacity weaknesses, further weakened the
likelihood of     privatization success.    While these decisions may have increased ownership, such
ownership is hollow if the process does not yield developmentally ­ not just technically or legally ­
positive outcomes. This is particularly important in a country like Mali whose investment climate, though



                                                       - 17 -

improving, is not yet strongly conducive to attracting large numbers of bidders.

(iii) Ensure up-front that key implementing institutions have sufficient resources: The future of the MRSC
­ the unit that was the key implementing agency for the cotton sector reforms -- was at risk at one point
because there was no secured funding for the agency. While this funding was to be provided by other
donors and was not a direct responsibility of the Bank, this shortfall had the potential to substantially
undermine credit implementation.       Future operations should explicitly ensure that funding, technical
assistance, etc. needed for key implementing institutions is actually in place or reliably available;
alternatively, provision of such funding should be included in the Bank's operation to make certain that it
is forthcoming.

(iv) Maintain a tight focus on a limited number of reforms: A large part of SAC III's success is that it was
focused on just two areas of reform. The importance of the cotton sector reforms and the slow but
deliberate pace of the government's reform program strongly suggest that future assistance also be
tightly focused. As demonstrated under SAC III, the cotton sector reform program required intensive
Bank involvement and oversight. Maintaining the focus of the government, the Bank, and other donors
on the economically critical cotton sector reforms will be difficult if the future reform agenda is too
ambitious.

(v) An effective partnership with donors: The importance of close coordination with other donors is so
critical that it bears repeating.

(vi) An effective partnership with the IMF:   A final and important lesson is that an effective partnership
between the Bank and the IMF -- undertaken in the context of each institution's expertise, as was
effectively used here ­ greatly strengthens project design and implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower, in it's assessment of SAC III implementation (dated May 2004), indicated that the SAC III
was launched at a time when the country was facing a grave economic situation resulting from the first
Cote d'Ivoire crisis and the cotton sector crisis--both had a severe impact on fiscal revenues, and the
cotton crisis weakened banking sector stability (due to CMDT's deficits hampering its loan repayment
ability). The Borrower indicated that SAC III was an appropriate response to this situation, as it enabled
the Borrower to make needed progress on cotton sector reforms and on improving public expenditure
management, while protecting spending on social sectors in accordance with its PRSP.

The Borrower highlighted a number of beneficial impacts (economic/financial, and social benefits). The
economic/financial benefits of the cotton sector component of the credit included the following:
restoration of macroeconomic stability; strengthening of the CMDT's financial viability through the
elimination of CMDT's debts, thereby restoring financial sector stability and CMDT's credibility with the
banking sector; restoration of the confidence of farmers and village associations in the CMDT and the
cotton sector; and restoration of the incentive structure essential for sustainable cotton production. As
regards the public expenditure component, the credit enabled improved audit functions and budget
discipline; enabled the GOM to better target expenditures to priority national and sector objectives within
reasonable timeframes; and provided a framework for mobilizing donor resources.

The social impact of SAC III was also seen to be important. Owing to the increase in cotton prices and
improved output, farmers' revenues improved, thereby increasing consumption, savings, and investment
in rural areas and improving farmers' motivation and quality of life. Expenditures on health, education,
and water supplies were not only protected, but were increased during the credit implementation period,
thereby supporting Mali's poverty reduction objectives and leading to improved social sector outcomes.

The Borrower highlighted a number of problems they encountered during implementation of the credit, as
follows:



                                                     - 18 -

l     inadequate financing for studies related to the restructuring of the cotton sector, that resulted in
      delays owing to the need to solicit funds;
l     renegotiation of some project details during implementation (notably, the terms of the HUICOMA
      sale), which eventually necessitated amendment of the DCA;
l     inadequate understanding of the conditionalities;
l     too many actors involved in overseeing the cotton sector reforms, and an inappropriate institutional
      arrangement that reduced the role of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (in favor of the MRSC) in
      steering project implementation; and,
l     inclusion of some disbursement conditions that were inappropriate in view of their dependence partly
      on factors outside the government's control (e.g., the privatization conditions being influenced by the
      Ivorian crisis, bidders' actions, and by the negotiation process).

In light of these problems, the borrower offered the following recommendations:

(i) the number of conditionalities for tranche disbursement should be reduced;
(ii) the DCA terms should be clear so as to avoid the possibility of differing interpretations;
(iii) disbursement procedures should be accelerated; and,
(iv) the process of providing "no-objection" notices should be accelerated.


(b) Cofinanciers:

The Government of the Netherlands (GON), as parallel co-financier for SAC III (through
Bank-administered trust funds linked to the 2nd and 3rd SAC III tranches), concurred with the overall
conclusion of the ICR and the lessons learned.            However, the GON expressed concern over the
"satisfactory" rating for the cotton sector reform component, having believed that CMDT privatization
was an objective of the SAC III that was not yet accomplished, and that the rating might encourage
further delays in implementing key aspects of the reform, notably privatization of CMDT. [In exchanges
subsequent to receipt of the GON's comments, the Bank team clarified to the GON representative that
CMDT privatization was not in fact an objective of the SAC III.] The GON also expressed concerns
about the strength of the borrower's political will and commitment to the privatization program, in view of
the delays experienced initially regarding the mode of privatizing the CMDT and subsequently regarding
whether or not to proceed with recruitment of the IFC as an investment advisor.

As regards the public expenditure management reform component, the GON concurred with the
satisfactory rating.     However, the GON noted its concerns that the two medium term expenditure
frameworks (MTEFs) that were developed (for health and education) appeared not to have become fully
operational due to capacity constraints, and thus the risk existed that these instruments would not be
used effectively in future budgeting efforts. As such, GON suggested that future lending programmes
should address this concern.

The comments from the GON representative on the first draft ICR have been incorporated in the final
ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Reform                    Outcome/Impact                     Planned Measures                  Actual
Areas/Objectives          Indicator
1. Revitalization of the 1a. Cost minimization in CMDT       (i) Identification of cost-saving Completed. Identified
cotton sector            and achieving greater [sic] within  measures for immediate            measures were implemented
                         the cotton sector                   implementation in view of the     in 2002/03.
                                                             continuing decline in the world
                                                             price for cotton lint.
                         1b. Preparation of sector reform    (i) Consultations with            Completed. Discussions
                         program                             producer organizations on the     held in early 2002,
                                                             evolution of world market         market-based price formula
                                                             conditions for cotton lint, and   announced in July 2002 and
                                                             the need for all parties to play  partially implemented as of
                                                             their part in adjusting to the    the 2002-03 crop year.
                                                             evolving situation in the
                                                             upcoming 2002/03 crop
                                                             season.
                                                             (ii)Adoption and                  Completed. Social plan
                                                             implementation of a full          completed in 2002 and
                                                             financial plan for CMDT           downsizing occurred in June
                                                             including the social plan, to     2003. Three-year financial
                                                             enable a refocusing of            plan completed in early 2004.
                                                             activities on core
                                                             agro-industrial functions.
                                                             (iii) Bring to the point of sale  Met in August 2003, but
                                                             not less than 84 percent of       negotiations were
                                                             HUICOMA's shares.                 subsequently inconclusive.
                                                             (iv) Bring to the point of sale   Met in June 2002 when
                                                             the ginning mills and other       government declared bidding
                                                             assets belonging to CMDT          process unsuccessful.
                                                             and OHVN in the OHVN
                                                             zone.
                                                             (v) Divest to the private sector  Not completed. This original
                                                             state ownership and               3rd tranche condition was
                                                             management control of             omitted when DCA was
                                                             HUICOMA and refrain from          amended to move 2nd
                                                             holding any direct or indirect    tranche conditions to the 3rd
                                                             interest of more than 12          tranche. HUICOMA remains
                                                             percent of HUICOMA or any         in government's hands.
                                                             other domestic company
                                                             involved in the production and
                                                             marketing of cotton oil and
                                                             cotton meal.
                                                             (vi) Divest to the private sector Not completed. This original
                                                             state ownership and               3rd tranche condition was
                                                             management control of the         omitted when DCA was
                                                             collection and ginning of seed    amended to move 2nd
                                                             cotton in at least in the OHVN    tranche conditions to the 3rd
                                                             zone.                             tranche. Assets remain in
                                                                                               government's hands.
                                                              (vii) Adoption of a plan         Substantially completed.
                                                             outlining the content of the      Government has decided to
                                                             next stages of the cotton         privatize CMDT as 3-4
                                                             sector liberalization program     private companies and to
                                                             and privatization of CMDT's       fully liberalize the sector over
                                                             agro-industrial and               3-4 years. Authorities are in
                                                             commercial activities.            process of negotiating with
                                                                                               IFC to serve as investment
                                                                                               advisor.




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators (cont.)

Reform                 Outcome/Impact                        Planned Measures                   Actual
Areas/Objectives       Indicator
2. Improvement of     2a. Strengthening the budget           (i) Adoption of a nomenclature     Completed in 2002 and
public expenditure    formulation process, with view to      for the decentralized level        applied to the accounts in

management            arrive gradually at a system linking   governments (i.e. collectives      January 2003.
                      expenditures to medium-term            territoriales) that is compatible
                      development objectives                 with Nomenclature comptable
                                                             de l'Etat
                                                              (ii) Produce a report of the      Completed. MTEFs for health
                                                             medium term expenditure            and education prepared and
                                                             framework for the fiscal years     incorporated into the 2003
                                                             2001-03 that integrates the        budget. Overall MTEF
                                                             expenditures forecasted for        prepared and reflected in the
                                                             the education and health           2003 budget.
                                                             sectors under PRODEC and
                                                             PRODESS, respectively,
                                                             within the medium-term
                                                             macroeconomic framework in
                                                             force.
                                                             (iii) Augmentation of the initial  Completed. Three-year
                                                             medium-term expenditure            budget allocations for all
                                                             framework, to integrate the        sectors, compatible with the
                                                             other priority sectors that are    macro-economic framework,
                                                             identified in the forthcoming      begun with the 2003 budget.
                                                             PRSP.
                      2b.Strengthening the budget            (i) Preparation of a procedural    Completed in 2002, endorsed
                      execution process                      manual for the budget              in early 2003, and is currently
                                                             execution process, and             in use.
                                                             educating staff on the
                                                             procedures.
                                                             (ii) Completion of a functional    Completed in 2002.
                                                             and technical study to define      Development & testing of new
                                                             an information system that         system began in January
                                                             integrates the various units of    2003, and system
                                                             the Ministry of Economy and        successfully implemented in
                                                             Finance.                           early 2004.
                      2c. Improving the transparency,        (i) Produce the monthly            Met by March 2002 and
                      accountability, and monitoring of      consolidated Treasury              timely production maintained.
                      expenditures, particularly of priority balance statement within a
                      poverty-related sectors (i.e. health,  1.5 month processing time
                      education)                             period following the end of the
                                                             concerned month and, for two
                                                             consecutive months, submit
                                                             the Statement to the Bank
                                                             immediately thereafter.
                                                             (ii) Strengthening the internal    Process begun in 2002 and
                                                             control mechanisms in les          additional strengthening took
                                                             services de contrôle et            place in 2003.
                                                             d'inspection de l'Etat.
                                                             (iii) Transformation of the       Section des comptes was
                                                             Supreme Court's Section des strengthened in 2002 and
                                                             comptes into an independent       received its own budget line;
                                                             Cour des comptes                  full independence is awaiting
                                                                                               government preparation of a
                                                                                               referendum for submittal for
                                                                                               public approval.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Annex 2a: Project Costs and Financing

Available electronically

Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements

Available electronically

Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component

Available electronically




                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              8/2000                  12     Economist--TTL (1);
                                             Telecommunications Specialist
                                             (1); Energy Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Sector Specialist (1);
                                             Rural Development Specialist
                                             (1); Agricultural Economist (1);
                                             Project Implementation Specialist
                                             (1); Economist (1); Macro
                                             Sector Manager (1); Rural Sector
                                             Manager (1); Resident
                                             Representative (1); IMF
                                             Economist (1).
              2/2001                    8    Economist-TTL (1); Agricultural
                                             Economist (2); Economist (1);
                                             Public Finance Specialist (1);
                                             Agricultural Services Specialist
                                             (1); Rural Development
                                             Specialists (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              9/2001                    9    Co-TTL & Snr. Economist
                                             (1); Co-TTL & Rural
                                             Development Specialist (1);
                                             Economist (1); Public
                                             Finance Specialist (1);
                                             Agricultural Economist (1);
                                             Agricultural Services
                                             Specialist (2); Project
                                             Implementation Specialist
                                             (1); Resident Representative
                                             (1).

 Supervision
              3/2002                    4    Co-TTL & Snr. Economist               S               S
                                             (1); Co-TTL & Rural
                                             Development Specialist (1);
                                             Agricultural Economist (1);
                                             Country Director (1).
              10/02-11/02               4    Co-TTL & Snr. Economist (1);          S               S
                                             Co-TTL and Rural Development
                                             Specialist (1); Agricultural
                                             Economist (1); Ag. & Rural
                                             Development Specialist (1).
              11/11/2002                6    CO-TTL (2); AG.                       S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             AGRI-BUSINESS SPEC. (1);
                                             PUBLIC EXPEND. SPEC. (1);



                                              - 24 -

                                            ECONOMIST (1).
               02/28/2003              2    CO-TEAM LEADER (1); SR AG           S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1).
               7/2003                  3    TTL and Snr. Economist (1);         S    S
                                            Advisor to the ED (1); Economist
                                            (1)
               12/12/2003              2    COTTON TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            AG ECONOMIST (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               49                          221.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    52                          166.5
  Supervision                           37.9                             323
  ICR                                       5                             12
  Total                                143.9                             723




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA


Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs by Components

Objectives/Outputs        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory Highly         Not
                          Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory Applicable

Macro Policies                                   X

Sector Policies                            X (cotton)

Physical                                                                                    X

Financial                                                                                   X

Institutional                                                                               X
Development

Environmental                                                                               X

Social:

     Poverty Reduction                                                                      X

                 Gender                                                                     X

         Other (specify)                                                                    X

Private Sector                                                                              X
Development

Public Sector               X (public
Management                 expenditure
                          management)




                                                    - 26 -

- 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU

Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

                             Highly                                                 Highly
                             Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance:
                   Lending                            X
               Supervision                            X
                    Overall                           X

Borrower Performance
               Preparation                            X
               Government        X (public        X (cotton
            Implementation     expenditure         reforms)
              Performance        reforms)
     Implementing Agency                              X
                  Overall                             X




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank

Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Mali, Report No. 17775 MLI, April 24, 1998.

President's Report, (Draft), "Proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) of SDR 39.3 Million
(US$50 Million Equivalent," August 2001.

Aide-mémoire, "Mission de Pré-évaluation du 14 au 21 septembre 2001."

Aide-mémoire, "Mission de Préparation SAC III, du 3 au 13 octobre 2000."

Aide-mémoire, "Mission d'Evaluation du SAC III, du 15 au 19 octobre 2001."

Minutes of ROC Review Meeting, October 19, 2001.

Aide-mémoire, "Crédit propose pour le financement d'une gestion des dépenses publiques et
restructuration du secteur cotonnier (le Projet): Troisième Crédit D'Ajustement Structurel," 2 novembre
2001.

President's Report, "Proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) of SDR 55 Million (US$70
Million Equivalent," Report No. P 7495 MLI, November 13, 2001.

SAC III Development Credit Agreement, December 12, 2001.

Back-to-Office Report, Feb. 26-March 26, 2002 Supervisory Mission [Wood].

Back-to-Office Report, March 14-30, 2002 Supervisory Mission [Labaste].

Back-to-Office Report, October 28-November 19, 2002 Supervisory Mission [Labaste].

Back-to-Office Report, October 28-November 7, 2002 Supervisory Mission [Durand]

Memorandum of the President, "Mali: Third Structural Adjustment Credit, Amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement ­ Change in Tranche Release Conditions," (Board Document No.
IDA/R2002-0193), December 4, 2002.

"Mali: Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative: President's Memorandum and Recommendation and Completion
Point Document," Report No. P7578-ML, February 20, 2003.

"Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Mali," Report No. 25663, July 7, 2003.

Project Status Report: Mali ­ SAC III, July 29, 2003.

"Mali: Third Structural Adjustment Credit, Release of the Third Tranche ­ Full Compliance," Report No.
26649, August 18, 2003.

"Mali: Third Structural Adjustment Credit, Supplemental Grant," Report No. 27224, November 13, 2003."


Joint Bank-Fund Documents

"Mali: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment," Report No.: 25462,
February 13, 2003.



                                                  - 29 -

International Monetary Fund

"Mali ­ Fifth Review Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility," EBS/04/16, February 14, 2003.

"Staff Report for the 2003 Article IV Consultation," SM/03/380, November 24, 2003.


Republic of Mali

"Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper," May 29, 2002.

"Report of the First Year of the Implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper (PRSP)," April
2004.




                                                    - 30 -

- 31 -

