Report No. PID10817
Project Name                     Mali - Third Structural Adjustment Credit 
(SAC III)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       MLPE72785
Borrower                         Republic of Mali
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Economy and Finance
BoYte Postale 234
Bamako, Mali
Contact person: Mr. Bakari Kone, Minister
Tel. (223) 22 57 26 / 22 58 58
Date Prepared                    November 15, 2001
Project Board Date               December 11, 2001
Country Background
Mali is one of the ten poorest countries in the world, with
limited natural and human resources. It is highly vulnerable to
external shocks (with 85 percent of its exports concentrated in
two products - cotton, gold - and a further 10 percent
concentrated in livestock), and has acute social needs. The
population of almost 11 million is growing at about 2.3 percent
per year, and the average real GDP per capita level was
estimated at US$240 in 2000.
During the 1990s, the country underwent political, economic and
social changes that increased its chances for stronger socio-
economic performance: transition to pluralist democracy (1991-
92); establishment of peace in the North following a period of
rebellion (1994); and implementation of sound macroeconomic,
structural and institutional reforms to promote private sector
development, improve governance, and prepare the economy for
integration under the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU). A program to de-concentrate and decentralize
government operations was advanced in 2000, with the completion
of municipal elections for the remaining 682 (out of 703)
communes. The economy responded positively to these changes,
particularly following devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994
which spurred significant growth of the cotton and gold sectors.
Since then, real GDP growth has averaged about 4.5 percent per
annum, enabling real per capita GDP to rise annually by just
under 2 percent.
Mali acceded to the Decision Point of the enhanced HIPC with
submission of an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-
PRSP) in September 2000. A full PRSP emphasizing economic
growth, human development, and reduction of human vulnerability,
is expected to be issued by early 2002. In parallel, the
government is progressively implementing measures to strengthen



the public expenditure processes, improve the effectiveness of
public expenditure programs, and reform and liberalize economic
activity in key sectors of the economy (e.g., energy, financial,
telecommunications, and cotton). Attainment of the HIPC
Completion Point is expected to be in the spring 2002.
Mali's recent economic performance has been negatively affected
by weak performance of the country's cotton sector. Mali's
cotton sector, which achieved impressive growth since 1994 and
gains in the world export market share, has been facing a severe
financial and structural crisis since 1998. The crisis was
catalyzed by the sharp decline in world prices for cotton lint
that deepened as the cotton parastatal company - Compagnie
Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT) - proved
itself unable to respond effectively to the price shock. By
1998, the CMDT had become a poorly run enterprise, with high
internal costs and inadequate governance and financial control
mechanisms. Weak performance of the CMDT threatened to reverse
the competitiveness gains achieved during the 1990s.
In view of the cotton sector's important role, the continued
crisis in the sector presages a weakened economic performance
this year. Real GDP growth is projected at -1.1 percent due
largely to the 50 percent decline in cotton production during
the 2000/2001 crop year and also to the 17 percent drop in
cereals production due to low rainfall. The drop in cotton
production is estimated to lower fiscal and export receipts this
year, thereby worsening public finance and balance of payments
outcomes compared with 2000. The most troubling concern has
been the impact on farmer and rural incomes, and the
implications this may have on poverty.
The current weak economic situation has occurred at a time when
the Malian authorities had hoped to move onto a path of more
vigorous growth and social progress through implementation of
the poverty reduction strategy laid out in their I-PRSP, and
which is being worked out in detail in the full PRSP expected to
be completed by early 2002. To deal with this challenge, the
authorities have designed a response program comprising: (i)
cotton sector recovery and initial restructuring (paras. 15-18),
and (ii) public expenditure reforms to facilitate poverty
reduction programs(paras. 19-21).
World Bank Strategy and Donor Support
The Bank's strategy of assistance to Mali, as set out in the FY
98 CAS (Report 17775-MLI), rests on two pillars: (i) stable
economic growth; and (ii) sustainable human development. In
line with this, assistance to Mali since FY99 has included
lending for two projects aimed at the basis for stable growth (a
rural infrastructure project and a financial sector project);
and three others focused on human development (a health sector
project in support of Mali's long-term Programme de
Developpement Sanitaire et Social (PRODESS); an education sector
learning and innovation loan; and an education sector project in
support of the Programme Decennal d'Education (PRODEC). By mid-
2000, Mali had met the conditions for moving into the high case
of the proposed lending program. This allowed us, in late 2000,
to prepare a supplement to the Economic Management Credit
(Credit 2894-MLI) to help Mali deal with the terms-of-trade
-2 -



shock caused by the combined effects of an oil price hike and a
fall in cotton prices.
While preparations continue towards a new CAS (in FY03), the
current CAS remains broadly adequate as a framework for
continuing Bank assistance to the country to the extent that
stable economic growth and sustainable human development remain
the twin strategic priorities. The objectives of SAC III are
two-fold: (i) to help Mali restore the basis for stable economic
growth by restructuring the all-important cotton sector to make
it more efficient and capable of adjusting smoothly to changing
international economic conditions; and (ii) to improve the
tools for planning and managing public expenditures for more
effective poverty reduction. These objectives of the SAC III
fit well with those of the FY98 CAS and pave the way for a new
CAS to be prepared in FY03.
Donors are supporting the Mali reform program along with IDA,
through balance of payments support as well as through
complementary programs and technical assistance. In view of the
links between the cotton sector's performance and macroeconomic
stability in Mali, the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility emphasizes the need to maintain momentum on the cotton
sector reform program particularly actions to increase
operational efficiency and reduce government ownership in the
sector. The PRGF also emphasizes measures to improve public
expenditure management, based on assessments undertaken by Bank
and Fund missions.
SAC III Design and Description
The proposed US$70 million credit will provide balance of
payments support to Mali during 2001/2002, and support the
government's ongoing reform agenda. The credit would be
disbursed in three tranches. As there are no conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit (except for ratification in Mali as
required by Malian law), the first tranche of the credit (US$25
million) would be available immediately upon credit
effectiveness. The second and third tranches (US$20 million and
US$25 million, respectively) would be tied to satisfactory
performance and program implementation, and completion of key
specified actions of the reform program.
This credit focuses on the following priority reform areas: (i)
recovery and restructuring of the cotton sector to restore
positive economic growth; and (ii) public expenditure reforms
aimed specifically at advancing the government's poverty
reduction objectives.
The cotton sector recovery and restructuring program
The government has laid out its policy for reforming and
liberalizing the cotton sector, including a plan to privatize
CMDT's agro-industrial and commercial activities. During the
first phase over the next year, initial divestment of activities
are scheduled and the full sector liberalization program will be
designed. The restructuring program will necessarily span
several years, and will require making the effort to create an
appropriate framework to attract private capital and know-how
and build the capacities of the key participants, namely the
farmers organizations. Support for the reinforcement of
capacities of farmers organizations to play an increasing role
-3 -



in the management of the cotton sector, will be provided through
the separate Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations
Project.
Under the SAC III program the authorities expect to implement
the first phase of the reform program, comprising: (i)
restoration of the CMDT's financial stability so as to allow it
to secure the financing of the forthcoming crop season; (ii)
achievement of efficiency gains in the CMDT through
restructuring and divestment of non-core activities (e.g.,
transport, input supply); (iii) divestment to the private
sector the cotton collection and marketing activities in one
cotton growing area of the country (OHVN); (iv) privatize the
cottonseed oil company HUICOMA; (v) the assurance of a high
producer price of seed cotton for 2001/02 crop year output to
maintain confidence of the farmers, compensate for the heavy
losses in rural incomes suffered in 2000/01 crop year, and
redress the impact on rural poverty; and (vi) define and
prepare the final phase of the sector liberalization program.
Public expenditure reform program
Mali's system of public expenditure management, contains
elaborate procedures for budget preparation, implementation, and
controls both in and outside the Ministry of Economy and
Finance. On paper it appears reasonably adequate; in practice,
however, weaknesses are apparent that hamper the government's
ability to achieve desired results. With the renewed dedication
of the government to poverty reduction under the HIPC program,
and the commitment to private-sector-led growth, the government
has realized the need to accelerate aspects of the public
expenditure reform agenda that support these two key development
priorities.
As a first step toward achieving the vision of moving from a
system based solely on regulating expenditures to one based on
promoting efficiency of expenditures and monitoring of outcomes,
the SAC III program builds on reform measures implemented under
the recently closed Economic Management Credit (Credit No.
2894). With the completion of the PRSP by early 2002, the
country would have an articulated development and poverty
reduction strategy to provide an improved framework for budget
allocation. Achieving the government's objective would also
rest on the availability of good information and the
effectiveness of the information system. SAC III program
actions focus government's efforts in three dimensions: (i)
improving budget preparation; (ii) improving budget execution;
and (iii) strengthen monitoring, transparency, and
accountability. Progress in these three areas will enable Mali
to better link expenditures to poverty reduction objectives and
improve effectiveness of public resources utilization,
particularly as it relates to poverty reduction programs.
Environmental Aspects
The implementation of the public sector reform program is not
expected to have any negative environmental impact.
Implementation of the cotton sector reforms may have
environmental implications due to the potential increase in
cotton production and attendant increase fertilizer/pesticide
use, though the magnitude of environmental risks strictly
- 4 -



associated with the SAC III cotton sector program is very
limited as no major expansion of cotton cultivated areas is
expected. Environmental issues integrated into the design of
the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
(PASAOP), which emphasizes the promotion and monitoring of
environmentally responsible agriculture, addresses the potential
environmental implications of the SAC III program.
To deal with the possible environmental and social impact of the
cotton sector privatization program, environmental audits will
be undertaken of the entities to be privatized and the results
integrated into the bidding documents. An assessment of the
readiness of existing national environmental legislations to
deal with the above issues will also be undertaken.
Benefits and Risks
By supporting implementation of the first stage of the cotton
sector reform program, the operation will facilitate maintaining
the confidence of farmers in the CMDT, and enable the 2001/02
crop to purchased at a favorable price for producers.
Preliminary estimates indicate that seed cotton production for
2001/02 could bounced back to record levels, enabling rural
incomes to recover. The credit will enable the government to
stabilize its financial position and improve public expenditure
management.
The operation faces three risks:
the weak institutional capacity could delay implementation.
Creation of the Mission Restructuration du Secteur Coton has
greatly helped maintain momentum on the reforms during the last
six months. Technical assistance has been arranged by the Bank
and other donors to assist the government with preparation
studies for the both the cotton and public expenditure reform
programs;
the preparation of the 2002 elections could detract from the
focus on the reforms. The short-term action plan will be
implemented before the electoral campaign process gets underway,
and the public expenditure management program measures are not
sensitive to the electoral cycle;
the persistence of a deterioration in the terms of trade beyond
2001 could delay the cotton sector's return to financial
viability. Prospects are for a slow but steady recovery of the
international prices for cotton lint. The reform program takes
into account several the risks and financial impact of a longer
than expected depression of the export price.
Contact point:
Team Leaders
Christina A. Wood
Sr. Economist Mali
Tel: (202) 473-5829
Fax: (202) 473-8136
Email: cwood@worldbank.org
Patrick Labaste
Sr. Rural Development Specialist
Tel:    (202) 473-4999
- 5 -



Fax:   (202) 473-8229
Email: plabaste@worldbank.org
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 14,2001
- 6 -



