Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3582 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 12, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER  3582 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2001, between Republic of MALI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter of development policy 
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter of development policy 
(the Development Policy Letter), dated November 7, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to strengthen expenditure management and achieve sustainability of the Borrower’s 
cotton sector (the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support of the 
Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) 
through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such 
countries;”.
(b)
Section 2.01, paragraph 13, as renumbered, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
Page  3
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“BCEAO” means “
Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest”
,
the common 
central bank of the Borrower and the other member states of UEMOA (as hereafter defined);
(b)
“bring to the point of sale” means the Borrower has taken the following steps: (i) 
prepared and distributed investment memoranda for the relevant state companies; (ii) solicited offers 
directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers, under terms and conditions agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association; (iii) evaluated the offers and selected the bidder(s) (if any); 
and (iv) invited the successful bidder(s) (if any) to enter into good faith negotiations;
(c)
“CFA Franc” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine,
 the currency of the 
Borrower;
(d)
“CMDT” means 
Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles, 
a
textile 
developing share holder company where the Borrower holds the majority of shares, established and 
operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance 
No. 4/CMLN dated January 30, 1975
,
published in the Borrower’s 
legal gazette No. 21 dated March 1, 1975 pages 1012 through 1016;
(e)
“
Collectivités Locales
”
means the autonomous local administrative entities established 
under the Borrower’s Laws No. 96-059, dated February 21, 1996, Official Gazette No. 6 dated March 31, 
1996 pp 204-209; No. 96-059, dated November 4, 1996, Official Gazette (special edition) No. 3 dated 
November 26, 1996; and No. 99-035 dated August 10, 1999, Official Gazette No. 21 dated August 1999, 
pp 806-810;
(f)
“Consolidated Treasury Balance Statement” means the Borrower’s financial statements 
as defined in its 
Arrêté 
No. 93-4937/MEF-PLAN-CAB dated August 20, 1993 
fixant le plan comptable 
de l’Etat
;
(g)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
“First Tranche“ means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in Category (1) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the Association on or 
after the Effective Date;
Page  4
(i)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, covering the period from January 1 to 
December 31;
(j)
“HUICOMA” means 
Huilerie Cotonnière Du Mali, a state enterprise
 established and 
operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance
 79-15/CMLN dated March 12, 1979, published in the Borrower’s 
legal gazette, special edition No. 580 dated July 30, 1997;
(k)
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” means the Borrower’s medium-term 
expenditure policy as defined in the draft poverty reduction strategy paper which has been discussed in 
the years 2000 and 2001 
– le cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté
 (CSLP);
(l)
“Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework” means the Borrower’s medium-term 
macroeconomic policy (
cadrage macroéconomique
)
as defined in the draft poverty reduction strategy 
paper which has been discussed in the years 2000 and 2001 
–
le cadre stratégique de lutte contre la 
pauvreté
 (CSLP); 
(m)
“MEF” means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, 
the Borrower’s Economic and 
Finance Ministry ;
(n)
“OHVN Zone” means the operational area of OHVN as defined in its establishment 
legislation;
(o)
“OHVN” means 
Office de la Haute Vallée du Niger, 
a
state entity established and 
operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance 
No. 91-048/P-CTSP dated March 31, 1991, published in the 
Borrower’s legal gazette No. 17 of September 15, 1991, page 607;
(p)
“
Nomenclature Comptable de l’Etat” 
means the Borrower’s accounting nomenclature as 
defined in its 
Arrêté 
No. 93-4937/MEF-PLAN-CAB dated August 20, 1993 
fixant le plan comptable de 
l’Etat
; 
(q)
“PRODEC” means 
Programme Décennal d’Education
,
the Borrower’s long-term 
education policy program pursuant to the November 1, 2000 policy letter referred to in Recital (A) of the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated February 1, 2001;
(r)
“PRODESS” means  
Programme de Développement Sanitaire et Social, 
 the Borrower’s 
long-term health and social policy program pursuant to the October 21, 1998 policy letter referred to in 
Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated 
January 11, 1999;
(s)
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in Category (2) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the Association on 
or after the date on which the conditions referred to in Schedule 1 paragraph 4, of this Agreement have 
been met;
(t)
“Third Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in Category (3) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the Association on or 
after the date on which the conditions referred to in Schedule 1, paragraph 5, of this Agreement have 
been met; 
(u)
“Tranche” means any of the following: First Tranche, Second Tranche or Third Tranche; 
Page  5
(u)
“Tranche” means any of the following: First Tranche, Second Tranche or Third Tranche; 
and
(v)
“UEMOA” means the 
Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest Africaine,
 the West 
African Economic and Monetary Union, established pursuant to a Treaty dated January 10, 1994 
completing the Treaty constituting the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) dated November 14, 
1973, for the promotion of regional integration among its member states, i.e., the Republic of Benin, 
Burkina Faso, the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, the Republic of Mali, the 
Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Togo.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifty-five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the 
Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain at BCEAO, a deposit account in CFA 
Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to finance 
expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association 
shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) 
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Association shall 
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of 
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of this 
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that 
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
Page  6
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; 
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, 
commencing February 1, 2012 and ending August 1, 2041.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on August 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as determined by 
the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not 
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification referred to 
in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to 
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of 
the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program including the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
Page  8
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. 234
Bamako, MALI
Telex: Facsimile: 
2559 MJ
(223) 22 8853
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Page  9
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below sets forth the 
amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account:
Tranche
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
 (Expressed in
SDR Equivalent)
       % of       
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)
First Tranche
19,600,000
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures
(2)
Second Tranche
15,700,000
100% of foreign expenditures 
(3)
Third Tranche
19,700,000
_________
100% of foreign expenditures
     TOTAL
55,000,000
========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower
.
3.
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance any of the following expenditures:
Page  10
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
another credit or a loan; and
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under 
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones
 unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver
or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
Page  11
(excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
(f)
expenditures (i) in the territories of any country which is not a Participatory Country or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (ii) on account of any payment to 
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
4.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (2) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amount specified in Category (1) has been withdrawn by the 
Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(B)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been undertaken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
5.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amounts specified in Categories (1) and (2) have been withdrawn 
by the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(B)
that the actions described in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been undertaken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
6.
If, after any of said exchange of views referred to in paragraphs 4 or 5 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements under Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, or the actions taken under Parts B or C of said Schedule 2, as the case may be, are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have met the requirements of 
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement  or taken the actions under Parts B or C of said Schedule 2, as the 
case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 2
Part A
:
General Requirements for Tranche Releases
1.
The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program.
2.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis 
of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B
:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche
The Borrower has:
1.
brought to the point of sale:
(a)
not
less than 84% of HUICOMA’s shares, pursuant to paragraph 13 (ii) of the 
Development Policy Letter; and
(b)
all assets belonging to CMDT and OHVN in the OHVN Zone pursuant to paragraph 7 
(ii) of the Development Policy Letter;
2.
adopted a nomenclature for the 
Collectivités
 
Locales
 compatible with the 
Nomenclature
 
Comptable
de l’Etat
, pursuant to paragraph 22 (i) of` the Development Policy Letter; and
3.
produced the monthly Consolidated Treasury Balance Statement within a 45 day processing time 
period following the end of the concerned month, pursuant to paragraph 26 (ii) of the Development 
Policy Letter, and, for two consecutive months, furnished said Statement to the Association soon 
thereafter.
Part C
:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Third Tranche
The Borrower has :
1.
divested to the private sector state ownership and management control of HUICOMA and does 
not retain any direct or indirect interest of more than 12% in HUICOMA or any other company on its 
territory involved in the production and marketing of cotton oil and cotton meal, pursuant to paragraph 
13 of the Development Policy Letter;
2.
divested to the private sector state ownership and management control of the collection and 
ginning of seed cotton in at least the OHVN zone, pursuant to paragraph 7 of the Development Policy 
Letter; and
3.
submitted to the Association, a report of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the 
Fiscal Years 2001-03, integrating the expenditures forecasted for the education and health sectors under 
PRODEC and PRODESS, respectively, and consistent with the Medium-Term Macroeconomic 
Framework, pursuant to paragraph 22 (ii) of the Development Policy Letter.
Page  13
