Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H069 MLI 
Grant related to CREDIT NUMBER  3582 MLI
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit - Supplemental Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 17 , 2003 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H069 MLI 
Grant related to CREDIT NUMBER  3582 MLI
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF MALI  
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) dated 
December 12, 2001, as amended on December 20, 2002, changing the conditions for the 
release of the second tranche (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of 
providing support during the execution of the structural adjustment program as described 
in Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement (the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the Program to help in meeting its increased financing 
requirements, caused by 
the negative impact of the Côte d’Ivoire crisis on the Malian 
economy since September 2002, by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,500,000) in the form of 
non-reimbursable financing (the Grant); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant in a single additional tranche to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985  
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement, as amended, have the respective meanings therein set forth:  
 (c) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement dated 
December 12, 2001, as amended, for the Project, between the Recipient and the 
Association, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,500,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain at BCEAO, a 
deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
Page  4
-
3
-
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on February 1 
and August 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06.  The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Grant 
Section 3.01. Subject to the modifications set forth below, Sections 3.01, 3.02, 
4.01 and 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 (except the table in 
paragraph 1 thereof) and 2 thereto are incorporated in this Agreement, with the following 
modifications in said Sections and Schedules, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
the term “Credit” shall be read as “Grant”; 
 
(b) 
the term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”; and 
 
(c) 
the term “this Agreement” or “the Development Credit Agreement” shall 
be read as “the Development Grant Agreement”. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Termination 
 
Section 4.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 5.01.The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances  
 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
 
B.P. 234 
 
Bamako, MALI 
 
Telex: 
 
      Facsimile: 
 
 
2559
MJ      (223) 
22 
8853 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Grant Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By  /s/ Abdoulaye Diop   
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/   David Craig 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the table below sets 
forth the amounts allocated to expenditures in support of the Program to be withdrawn 
from the Credit and Grant Accounts and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program: 
 
Tranche
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Grant 
Additional 
Financing 
(Expressed in 
SDR equivalent)
%
of       
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1) First 
Tranche  19,600,000 
 
100% 
of 
foreign 
expenditures 
(2) Second 
Tranche 
15,700,000  
100% 
of 
foreign 
expenditures  
(3) Third 
Tranche 19,700,000 
 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
(4)
Additional 
Financing 
 
_________ 
10,500,000 
 
_________ 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
 
TOTAL 55,000,000 
======== 
10,500,000 
======== 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
 The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used 
in Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read 
as follows: 
“
Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”.” 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from 
the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a)  The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development 
grant agreement or any development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) 
(i) is modified to read: “any development grant agreement, 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.” 
7. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 “Section 
12.05. 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
