Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7368-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 22, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURR3NCY EQUEVALENT
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in
relation to a basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as
interve:ation currency. The official exchange rate on February 1. 1989 was
Tk 32.90 buying and Tk 32.95 selling per US Dollar.
US$1.0        =  Tk 32.95
Tk 1             US$0.03
Tk 1 million = US$30,349
ABBREVIATIONS
BB     -  Bangladesh Bank
DEDO   -  Duty Exemption Drawback Office
ECGW   -  Export Credit Guarantee Wing
EDF    -  Export Development Fund
EMU    -  Export Monitoring Unit
EPB    -  Export Promotion Bureau
EPZ    -  Export Processing Zone
FSC    -  Financial Sector Credit
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
IDA    -  International Development Association
IFC    -  International Finance Corporation
IMF    -  International Monetary Fund
ISC    -  Industrial Sector Credit
LIC    -  Letter of Credit
LIBOR  -  London Inter Bank Offer Rate
MIS    - Management Information System
NBR    -  National Board of Revenue
NIP    -  New Industrial Policy
SBC    -  Sadharan Bima Corporation
TA     -  Technical Assistance
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



rUKq_..%ALI. *UIL
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summart ...................................      iii-v
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  THE TRADE AND INDUSTRY SECTORS . ...........................       1
A. The Economic Setting .1
B. The Manufacturing Sector.                                       2
C. GOB's Industrial Strategy.                                      2
D. Trade and Industrial Policies         .        .                3
- Tariffs and the Import Regime.                              3
- Exchange Rate Policy.                                       4
Investment Approval.                                         4
III.  EXPORT PERFORMANCE, POLICIES, AND CONSTRAINTS.                     5
A. Export Perf-wrmance.                                            5
B.   Factors Constraining Export Development .         .           6
- Access to Duty-Free Imports.                                6
- Availability of Export Financing.                           8
- Adequacy of Export Credit Guarantee Scheme                  9
- Market Information Constraints .10
IV. THER BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE IN THE TRADE, INDUSTRIAL,
AND FINANCIAL SECTORS ....................................        11
A. Past IDA Lending .11
B.   Impact of Past Trade, Industrial, and Financial
Sector Operations .11
C. IDA's Future Involvement .13
D. IFC's Role and Experience .13
V.  THE PROJECT ..............................................        14
A.   Projec. Objectives and Description .14
B. Projec: Components .14
- Exrort Development Fund .14
- Technical Assistance .16
C. Costs and Financing Plan .18
This report was prepared by Messrs. Benjamin Cu Kok (Task Manager),
Surinder K. Malik, Thomas Maxwell, Paul Murgatroyd (AS1IE), and Bruce Nichols
(Consultant) based on an appraisal mission in February/March 1988 and a
follow-up mission in May 1988.
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the psrfonnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkation.



- ii-
Page No.
VI.  THE CREDIT   ............................................        19
A.          ...................ons.............................   1
A. ,DA TersasndConditions..19
B.  EDF Operations ..................                 ; ,        19
C  Administrative Arrangements    .            .20
D. Benefits and Risks ..22
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .23
TABLES
3.1   BANGLADESH:  Growth and Structure of Exports,
PY81-FYss.                                     5
5.1   Technical Assistance Program ..........................       16
5.2   Project Costs and Financing Plan .......................      18
ANNEXES
1.    Export Development Fund--Statement of Lending Policy
and Operating Procedures ......     ......................  25
2.  Technical Assistance Component .30
3   Estimated Disbursement Schedule .38
4.    Documents Available in the Project File .39
HAP
IBRD 20726



BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowert              People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiariess         Scheduled commercial banks, Bangladesh Bank (BB),
National Board of Revenue (NBR), Sadharan Bima
Corporation (SBC), Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), and
nontraditional exporters.
Total Proiect Cost:   SDR 24.2 million (US$31.2 million equivalent).
Credit Amount:         SDR 19.4 million (US$25 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard, with a 40-year maturity.
Onlending Terms:       The Borrower, through BB, will make the proceeds of the
Credit available to scheduled commercial banks, which
would provide advances in foreign exchange to eligible
exporters. BB would rediscount export financing
provided by the banks. The exporter would pay an
interest rate pegged to the six-month LIBOR plus 12 and
bear the foreign exchange risks. BB would provide a
spread of 3.5Z to banks providing financing to eligible
new nontraditional exporters and of 2.52 to banks
providing financing to other eligible exporters.
Cofinancina:           The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
has agreed in principle to provide US$1.2 million as a
grant to finance the Project's technical assistance
component.
Proiect Description:  The proposed Project would complement previous and
ongoing industrial sector operations by supporting the
export development program of the Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB' through the:
(i) establishment and funding of an Export Development
Fund (EDF) in BB to provide preshipment financing in
foreign exchange to exporters for their imported
inputs; and (ii) provision of technical assistance to
BB, NBR, SBC and EPB to strengthen these agencies'
capabilities to implement export promotion policies.
US$25 million would augment GOB's US$5 million
contribution to EDF resources, and US$1.2 million would
be utilized for technical assistance.



-iv-
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed Project would promote incremental exports
by providing a stable source of foreign exchange
financing, especially for never nont:aditional
exporters, and by strengthening the institutions
responsible for implementing GOB's export policies.
Demand for the EDP will depend on the availability of
alternative sources of financing at internationally
competitive cost. The risk that the EDP would primarily
substitute for more costly financing of manufacturers
who would export anyway, rather than contribute to
export growth, would be minimized by limiting EDF
access to nontraditional exporters and, in garments, to
exporters with domestic content of 302 or more, and by
earmarking 20Z of the proposed EDF for new
nontraditional exporters. Improving duty drawback
schemes and access to finance would also be a strong
incentive for entry of new exporters. Possible
commercial banks' reluctance to participate in the
scheme would be reduced by allowing them an attractive
spread, requiring all users of the EDF to take out
export credit guarantees, and strengthening the Export
Credit Guarantee Wing of the SBC. Careful design of
the terms of reference with the agencies' full
participation, appropriate blending of foreign and
local consultants, and appointment of an expatriate
consultant to coordinate and monitor activities would
ensure effective absorption of the project's technical
assistance.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign  Total
----…(US $ Million)----
Preshipment Import Financing                            -         30.0    30.0
Technical Assistance                                    0.5 La    0.7      1.2
Total Project Cost                                   0.5      30.7    31.2
la Includes US$0.02 million in duties and taxes.
Financins Plan:
Local    Foreign  Total
----(US   H Million)-----
IDA                                                     -        25.0    25.0
GOB                                                     -          5.0     5.0
USAID                                                   0.5        0.7     1.2
Total                                              0.5      30.7    31.2



-V
Estimated IDA
Disbursement6s
FY90     FY91   FY92   FY93
-------(US $ Killion)------
Annw.al                 4.5       7.5    9.0    4.0
Cuntlative              4.5      12.0   21.0   25.0
Economic Rate of Return (ERR): Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 7368-BD
Hap:                              IBRD 20726



BANGLADESH
STiFF APPRAISAL kEPORT
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      In its New Industrial Policy (NIP) issued in June 1982, the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) recognized the essential role the nascent manufacturing
sector must play in increasing overall economic output and providing adequate
employment opportunities for its large and rapidly growing population. The
reforms introduced under t'ne NIP have focussed on expanding the private
sector's role, improving public sector enterprises' performance, liberalizing
the import regime, and adopting a flexible erchange rate and appropriate
incentives to promote exports. Subsequently with assistance under the Fourth
Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1124-BD), GOB carried out further detailed
Trade and Industrial Policy studies and has been refining the NIP policy
framework.
1.2      International Development Association (IDA) has assisted GOB to
liberalize the trade regime and improve the institutional framework for
promoting exports through an Industrial Sector Credit (ISC)(FY87). In parallel
with the program of trade and industrial policy reforms, ID& has worked closely
with GOB and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in developing an appropriate
exchange rate policy which supports the emphasis on export development.
Accordingly, since the early 1980s, GOB has maintained a flexible exchange rate
policy, expanded the scope of the secondary foreign exchange market and reduced
the premium of the secondary exchange rate over the official exchange rate with
a view to unifying the exchange rates (para. 2.8). The proposed Export
Development Project (the Project) responds to GOB's request for additional IDA
support to help it further rationalize its trade, industrial and financial
sector policies and institutions. With an estimated cost of US$31.2 million,
it would focus on: (a) strengthening the capabilities of institutions involved
in export administration; and (b) providing a line of credit through the GOB's
Export Development Fund (EDF) to facilitate exporters' access to preshipment
financing of .h&ir imported inputs.  Funding for the proposed Project would be
provided by IDA (US$25 million equivalent) and GOB (US$5 million) for the EDF,
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) (US$1.2
million equivalent in grant) for technical assistance.
II. THE TRADE AND INDUSTRY SECTORS
A. The Economic Setting 1/
2.1      Bangladesh's macroeconomic performance during the 1980s has been
reasonably good considering the frequent occurrences of natural disasters. It
reduced its external and fiscal deficits from a range of 9-122 of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in the early 19806 to around 6-82 of GDP in FY88, mainly
1/ For a comprehensive review of the current economic situation in
Bangladesh, see Rtport No. 7596-BD, "Bangladesh - Recent Economic
..avelopments and Short-Term Prospects," dated February 3, 1989.



-2-
through demand management policies &.Ad selective import substitution (for
example, in fertilizers and energy). Continued restraints on public
expenditure (whJch fell from 202 of GDP in FY83 to 162 in FY88), a decline in
private investment, continued weak demand (especially for manufactured goods),
and the fall in international energy prices helped reduce the external deficit
and stabilize the domestic inflation rate at around 112 p.a. Improvements were
also made in sectoral policies which strengthened the incentive system and
diversified the structure of exports (para. 3.3). Economic growth performance
was modest at an average annual rate of about 42 ir. real terms.
P.  The Man iacturing Sector
2.2      Bangladesh's manufacturing sector is small and at an early stage of
development. Based on official statistics, which do not reflect the rapid
growth in nontraditional industriee and seriously understate its value addad
contribution, manufacturing accounted for about 10? of GDP in FY88 and about 8S
of total employment. Public sector and large-scale private units generate 58Z
of value added but employ only 18? of the manufacturing labor force. Small and
cottage industries account for most of the employment (822) in the sector and
the remaining 422 of value added. The public sector's share of manufacturing
investment has declined continuously since the mid-1970s, falling from about
9O0  in i972 to about 402 in 1988.  Since the early 19809 significant changes
have taken place in the sector's structure. Nontraditional export industries
(such as readymade garments) &-- natural gas-based fertilizers have grown
rapidly, while the traditional manufacturing sector dominated by jute
industries, textiles, and light consumer goods have stagnated. Despite its
relatively small size, manufacturing plays a prominent role in the country's
external trade. About one-third of value added in manufactuiring originates in
export activities and the sector accounts for over three-fourths of total
merchandise exports.
2.3      The manufacturing sector grew at an average annual rate of about 42
during FY81-PY88. The sector has grown unevenly in recent years, and the
growth rate has b'en less than half of that in FY73-FY8O. Papid growth of
about 10? in FY85 was followed by virtual stagnation in FY86. The sector
rebounded in FY87 with a growth rate of almost 152. Estimates for FY88 again
indicate a levelling off in the growtb rate. Favorable macroeconomic
developments, i.e., higher agricultural incomes, monetary expansion, and
greater availability of raw material iUports, stimulated the demand for
industrial products and contributed to higher growth rates in FY85 and FY87.
Slower growth in agricultural incomes due to drastic declines in jute pricea in
FY86 and floods in FY88 affected the sector's growth rates in the respective
years. Political disturbances and general strikes in FY88 also adversely
affected the manufacturing sector.
C. GOB's Industrial Strategy
2.4      Bangladesh has very limited natural resources, and its industry is
import-intensive. Industrial growth has been constrained by the domestic
market's small size due to low purchasing power and frequent, wide variations
in the availability of foreign exchange caused by fluctuations in the
international prices of its traditional exports and periodic large food imports



-3-             p-
necessitated by natural disasters. A key element of Bangladesh's development
strategy is to promote rapid export-led growth to generate foreign exchange and
provide employment for a large, rapidly growing labor force. While the
manufacturing sector performanct has been uneven in the 19809, a bright spot in
the economy has been the strong performance of nontraditional exports,
especially readymade garments and frozen shrimp, which increased at an average
annual rate of 292 in real terms over FY81-FY88 and accounted for more than
half of total merchandise exports in FY88 (para. 3.1 and Table 3.1).
2.5      There has been a major shift in GOB policy toward the industrial
sector, from early nationalization measures and concentration on public sector
industrial enterprises (1973-1975), through a gradual increase in the private
sector's role (1976-1981), to a major emphasis on the private sector since June
1982, when GOB introduced its NIP (para. 1.1). This emphasis on the private
sector has been demonstrated by the rapid divestment of public sector
enterprises and promotion of the private sector through deregulation and
decontrol (e.g. liberalizing import policies and procedures, simplifying
customs procedures, and enlarging the secondary exchange market, liberalizing
investment l.,censing procedures) and incentives (flexible exchange rate policy,
duty-free input imports and other incentives for exporters). Banking has been
opened to the private sector; there are now 15 private banks, including 7
foreign banks.
D.  Trade and Industrial Policies
Tariffs and the Import Regime
2.6      Bangladesh's structure of protection is characterized by tariff
anomalies as well as various types of quantitative restrictions. Many products
at the final stages of production are protected either by outright bans or
restrictions and/or by high tariffs. Special exemptions and the existence of
many transactions that bypass official chann ls create additional anomalies in
the levels of effective protection for different industries.
2.7      In FY86-FY87, GOB simplified and liberalized the tariff and import
control regime. Some of the recent measures included: a phased reduction in
the tariffs on luxury goods and/or imposition of excise taxes on local
suppliers to lower t-e effective protection enjoyed by domestic manufacturers
and to discourage smuggling; a phased program to rationalize tariffs in
selected subsectors, including textiles, steel, engineering, and chemicals;
change from a positive list of unrestricted imports to a negative list of
products banned from importation, supplemented by a restricted list containing
items importable under conditions specified in the Annual Import Policy Order,
thus freeing all imports except those subject to the Negative or Restricted
lists; reductions in the number of items in the Negative and Restricted lists
with the aim to gradually phase out restrictions so that industries are only
protected by tariffs; a shift in import financing from the official foreign
exchang- market to the secondary exchange market where the rate better reflects
the opportunity cost of foreign exchange, thus paving the way for eventual
unification of these markets. In addition, based on the recommendations of a
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) study completed in FY87, GOB
initiated measures to simplify customs valuaticn and clearance procedures.



-4-
Exchange Rate Policy
2.8      Since the early i980s, GOB has pursued a flexible exchange rate
m.nagement policy to improve competitiveness and promote export diversification.
At the same time, GOB has continued to increase the proportion of external
transactions conducted in the secondary exchange market so that virtually all
exports and almost all imports not financed by aid flow through it. Along with
the widening of the serondary exchange market, the spread between the official
and secondary exchange market has been narrowed from 152 in FY85 to about 2Z as
of end 1988. The official exchange rate, pegged to a basket of currencies of
Bangladesh's main trading partners, has been adjusted frequently in small steps
to increase competitiveness. The real exchange rate (excess of the inflation
differential between Bangladesh and its major trading partners) depreciated by
about 18Z in FY86 and 7Z in FY87 and appreciated slightly (O.3Z) in FY88. In
addition, the Export Performance Benefit system which allows exporters to obtain
part of their export receipts at the higher secondary exchange market rate,
contributed to the pace of effective devaluation for exporters. In FY88, nearly
all export proceeds were sold through the secondary excharge market, compared to
53Z in FY86. GOB intends to sustain flexible exchange rate management and the
inlargement of the role of the secondary exchange market.  GOB is ccamited under
the Structural Adjustment Facility agreements with the IMF to eventually unify
the foreign exchange markets.
Investment Approval
2.9      In the past GOB periodically issued an Investment Schedule which
specified priority sectors, the quantity of investments to be undertaken in each
of these sectors and sanctioning rules. This policy did not serve its intended
puroose as investment targets were unrealistic and not binding on private
investors, and financial institutions tended to follow the Investment Schedule
mechanically in making lending decisions rather than conducting meaningful
project appraisals. The Revised Industrial Policy issued in 3986 made the
Investment Schedule indicative of GOB's guidelines rather than regulating entry
as the Schedule had done previously. In addition, most of the industries are
treated as free sectors not requiring approval. To import machinery, firms in
the free sectors can use their own resources to buy foreign exchange from the
secondary exchange market. GOB has reserved only power generation and
transmis4olon, arms and ammunition, atomic energy, telecommunications, air
transportation, mechanized forestry, and currency printing and minting for the
public sector; another 12 industries are 'discouraged' due to environmental
constraints (e.g. deep sea trawling) or serious over-capacity (e.g. jute
carpets). All other industries (125 out of a total of 144) are now treated as
free sectors which do not require approval if investments are funded by the
investor's own resources, including short-term bank funding; furthermore,
projects with imported raw material content of less than 50Z no longer require
Investment Board approval. Along with liberalization of investment sanctioning
procedures, to facilitate speedy loan processing GOB also significantly
increased the limits below which financial institutions do not require
Government approval to make loans. In January 1989, GOB issued the Investment
Board Ordinance 1988 which created the Board of Investment with jurisdiction
over the registration and approval of both domestic and foreign investments.
Import licensing procedures were also simplified by requiring only a passbook
and specifying broad categories of eligible raw materials and spare parts.



-5-
2.10     These improvements in the inveatment climate, together with export
promotion measures discussed below, contributed to a sharp increase in private
investment in manufacturing from FY83 through FY8S, contrary to the general
trend in sggregate private it4vestment during this period. This growth occurred
solely in the free sectors, particularly in textiles, readymade garments and
'ood processing. The pattern of foreign exchange financing of capital goods
imports also changed dramatically; 852 of the foreign ex%.hange requirements for
such imports was obtained through the secondary exchange market by the mid-
1980s compared to heavy reliance (over 80X) on cash licenses at the official
exchange rate in the early 1980s. However, in FY86-FY8S, private investment in
manufacturing has stagnated due to denial of new credit to defaulters.
rerurrent political uncertainties. ae well as continuing low demand levels.
III. EXPORT PERFORMANCE, POLICIES, AND COUSTRAINTS
A. Export Performance
3.1      Until recently, Bangladesh's export structure was dominated by jute
and jute goods and, to a smaller extent, by tea and leather. However,
international demand and prices for jute have declined _.onsistently since the
197(0s due to competition from synthetic fibers. To reduce dependence on jute,
GOB has tried to diversify its exports by encouraging other domestic resource-
based industries (shrimp and leather) as well as new activities which process
imported materials for exports. The first breakthrough in the latter type of
activity was in garment exports, wlhich increased from negligible amount.' in
FY81 to almost US$434 million in FY88, equivalent to about 352 of total
merchandise exports.
Table 3.1: BANGLADESH: GROWTH AND STRUCTURE OF EXPORTS, FY81-FY88
Nominal                             Average
Export Value        Share of Exports  Growth
(US$ million)              (2)          Rate
FY81-FY88 la
1980181  1987/88 /b  1980/81  1986/88  (2 p.a.)
Traditional Exports
Jut? and jute goods          485        382     68.3        31.0
Tea                           41         39      5.7         3.2
Leather                       57        147      8.0        11.9
583       568      82.0        46.1        0.8
Nonts.aditional Exports
Re.%dymade garments            3        434      0.4        35.3
Fr,zen Fish and Shrimp        40       145       5.6        11.8
Ccher                         85        84      11.9         6.8
128       663      18.0        53.9      28.9
Total Merchandise Exports       711      1,231    100.0       100.0        '.7
la In constant prices.
/b Staff estimates.
Source:  Table 1.10 of Report No. 7596-BD, 'Bangladesh - Recent Economic
Developments and Short-Term Prospects,' February 3, 1989.



-6-
3.2      The improvement in export earnings in the 1980s has been due primarily
to the rapid growth of nontraditional exports which increased ol. an average
rate of 292 p.a. in constant prices over the FY81-FY88 period (Table 3.1). On
the other hand, traditional exports--jute, tea and leather--stagnated, with the
exception of leather in FY87, when both export prices and volume of leather
picked up substantially. There was no secular Improvement in jute prices and
export earnings; a short-lived improvement in prices in FY85 due to supply
shortage was followed by sharp declines in FY86, FY87, and FY88. Given these
disparate trends, the share of nontraditional exports in total merchandise
exports in current prices rose from 182 in FY81 to about 542 in FY88, while the
share of raw jute and jute goods declined from 682 to 312 over the same period.
3.3      In addition to the policy improvements in trade and tariffs,
investment approval procedures, and exchange rate policies (paras. 2.6-2.8), a
major policy factor responsible for Bangladesh's success with readymade
garments has been the establishment of the special bonded warehouse system
(para. 3.6), which provided free trade status for imported inputs. This
system, which applies to garment manufacturers who export all of their
production, has permitted them to import required inputs without restrictions
and without duties and other taxes. Another important factor has been the
availability of export-related financ..ng for imported inputs. Access to
suppliers' credit, bascd on the Back-to-Back Letter of Credit (L/C) System, has
been critical in meeting readymade garment exporters' working capital needs in
the absence of foreign currency loans through the Bangladesh Bank (BB). Other
export incentives included income tax rebates, concessional rate of duty on
imported machinery, and subsidized interest rates on preshipment financing in
local currency.
B.  Factors Constraining Export Development
3.4      There are a range of policy and institutional instruments which
governments have used to promote exports, including maintenance of realistic
exchange rates, ensuring free trade status to exporters who import inputs for
export production, facilitating access to credit needed for export production
at internationally competitive costs, and strengthening the capabilities of
institutions administering export policies, as well as making them more
efficient. Under the NIP and supported by ISC, GOB achieved substantial
progress toward implementing these policy and institutional approaches to
promoting manufactured exports. However, there still remain problems in the
detailed implementation of policy and institutional changes in export
administration and in the access to credit, particularly .y new and indirect
exporters.
Access to Duty-Free Imports
3.5      There have been five administrative exemption/drawback schemes to
exempt exporters' imported inputs from duties as well as direct and indirect
taxes. Under the Drawback at Actual Scheme, exporters pay duties and taxes on
their imported inputs which are subsequently refunded on a case-by-case basis.
Duty refunds have been granted only in a few cases since this scheme was
introduced in August 1970. Under the Drawback at Flat Rate Scheme, refunds on
duties and taxes are estimated according to a preset schedule. Since its



-7-
introduction in February 1981, only 13 product groups have been included in the
fixed drawback schedule. The Notional Payment Scheme, established in April
1983, exempted exporters from paying duties and taxes on imports used in export
production on a case-by-case basis at the time of importation. Fearing misuse,
GOB officials have imposed complicated procedures, and exporters have never
used this prior exemption system. The Special Bonded Warehouse Scheme has been
administered through the use of import and axport passbooks, input-output
coefficients and stock accounting books, which has resulted in free trade
status for exporters and has been one of the most important contributing
factors to garment exports' success. Its main shortcoming is that it has been
applicable only to garment producers who export all of their output. The
Private Bonded Warehouse Scheme was created for manufacturers in fields other
than garments and specialized textile products who export all of their output.
Unlike the Special Bonded Warehouse Scheme, a Customs official must be present
to inspect the inflow and outflow of inputs and products.
3.6      These schemes have applied to different products and have been largely
ineffective because of administrative problems. The Special Bonded Warehouse
Scheme has been most successful because it permitted speedy administration of
the import procedures and guaranteed free trade status. Under this scheme
input-output coefficients are pre-announced, and exporters apply for duty-free
imports. Nevertheless, there are areas for further improvement. For duty-free
entitlements and duty-owed imports, input-output coefficients are handled on an
ad hoc basis after the exporters have applied for their duty drawbacks. They
are not processed speedily, and new products are added to the flat rate
drawback schedule very slowly. It would be better to have a system which
estimates and publishes input-output coefficient information which exporters
and customs officials can use in submitting and processing applications for
duty exemptions or drawbacks. Another deficiency is that indirect exporters
(i.e. demestic producers of inputs supplied to export manufacturers) have not
been eligible for duty-free imports; this has prevented the rapid development
of backward linkages which could significantly increase value added in export
activity.
3.7      GOB has begun to generalize the principles of the Special Bonded
Warehouse Scheme and make it the cornerstone of the duty-free import
administration for all firms that generate exports directly or indirectly. To
enable it to manage a generalized bonded warehouse system more effectively and
to develop other alternative duty drawback systems, GOB has established the
Duty Exemption Drawback Office (DEDO) in the Finance Ministry's National Board
of Revenue (NEBR), whose objective will be to consolidate import policy-related
and technical tasks on imports for export production which are currently
carried out by various agencies. Two statutory and regulatory orders were
issued in May 1988 to revise and systematize the drawback schemes to
incorporate duty drawback at flat rates and individual drawback, and to extend
these facilities to indirect exporters using the inland L/C system. Since
PY87, GOB nas permitted exporters, on a special case basis, to import banned
and/or restricted items and, in FY88, GOB also extended this incentive to
indirect exporters. The present case-by-case or product-by-product approach
will eventually be replaced by a general system under which no import
restrictions would be applied to inputs used for direct and indirect exports,
other than through the general procedures laid down by DEDO. Strengthening
DEDO so that direct and indirect exporters will have easy access to duty-free
imported inputs is one of the objectives of the proposed Project.



-8-
3.8      In addition to the duty exemption-drawback schemes, Bangladesh has
also established an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in Chittagong where both
foreign and local enterprises can set up factories exempt from custom duties
and import restrictions. GOB has decided recently to further expand the EPZ
and undertake additional infrastructural investments. After a slow start due
to the limited powers vestad in the EPZ Authority and other constraints. GOB's
streamlined procedures are now expected to facilitate new investments and
improve existing investors' operations. GOB has reviewed with the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) the latter's study on Foreign Direct
Investment in Bangladesh, and additional changes in institutions, incentives,
and procedures are expected in the near future (para. 4.7).
Availability of Export Financing
3.9      In addition to restriction-free and duty-free imported inputs, another
important incentive to promote exports is to facilitate access to export
financing for all industries and firms that generate exports directly or
indirectly. Preshipment working capital financing is normally used to purchase
imported and domestic inputs. In countries with underdeveloped financial
markets and foreign exchange controls, the financing needed to purchase
imported inputs is usually met either from foreign currency loans earmarked for
exporters or from foreign suppliers' credits.
3.10     In Bangladesh, new exporters have difficulty obtaining credit, and
export financing is relatively expensive to those with access to it.
Commercial banks' demands for physical collateral appear to be one of the most
important impediments to small and new exporters' access to -xport financing.
These exporters typically have no established record and, given the current
spreads allowed them, the commercial banks have neither the incentive nor the
ability to assess the risk of lending to new and small exporters. Despite
GOB's stated objective to promote backward linkages from nontraditional
exports, indirect exporters have only recently become eligible for GOB's export
financing schemes. However, the implementation of the administrative
mechanisms for the inland LIC system still need to be strengthened to
facilitate indirect exporters' access to financing. To exploit Bangladesh's
export potential more fully, commercial banks need to be given a larger spread
to lend to new, small and indirect exporters, the Export Credit Guarantee
Scheme needs to be substantially strengthened, and financial instruments also
need to be revised to allow indirect exporters access to export finaaicing. The
proposed Financial Sector Credit (FSC) will require as one of its objectives
that banks be able to adjust interest rates to reflect the varying risks and
costs associated with different types of lending. The proposed Project will
provide technical assistance to the Export Credit Guarantee Wing (ECGW) of the
Sadharan Bima Corporation (SBC) to strengthen the export guarantee scheme and
to BB to modernize the export financing system as described below.
3.11     In FY87, based on the findings of a BB Task Force on Export Finance,
BB issued a revised circular to generalize the inland back-to-back LIC system,
linking direct exporters' financing with indirect exporters' financing to
facilitate access to working capital financing for both types of exporters.
Loan disbursements for the direct exporter will be strictly tied to the inland



-9-
back-to-back LIC and negotiation of the import L/C. In addition, all indirect
exporters will have access to export financing through the inland back-to-back
LiC. Loan liquidation for direct exporters and indirect exporters will be tied
to an export LIC (or order) and inland back-to-back LIC negotiations,
respectively. Provision has also been made in the design of the inland back-
to-back LIC system for exporters to have access to both sight and usance LICs.
These changes should substantially strengthen the access of f?xporters to
foreign suppliers' credits for those sectors (particularly readymade garments)
that are highly dependent on this type of financing. However, it does not
address the needs of exporters in newly emerging products that may not have
access to suppliers' credit.
3.12     The Task Force also recommended the establishment of a foreign
currency EDF in BB to address the needs of direct and indirect exporters who do
not have access to appropriate suppliers' credits. During the transition
period when fundamental reforms will address the issues of access to credit and
foreign exchange, GOB feels that it would be useful to create such a fund to
provide competitively-priced foreign currency loans to exporters to provide
them with an assured source of foreign exchange as well as to demonstrate GOB's
commitment to promoting and diversifying exports.
3.13     In view of Bangladesh's current favorable foreign reserve position and
the expansion of the secondary foreign exchange market, access to foreign
currency financing does not appear to pose a serious problem at present for
exporters who already have access to adequate credit, although the situation
could change significantly as GOB introduces agreed trade regime reforms which
would allow increased imports and may erode present reserves. Banks provide
pre- sand post-shipment working capital export financing at a concessional 92
p.a. interest rate for nontraditional products up to 902 of the export L/C or
order. The interest rate applicable to certain nontraditional exporters
(handicrafts and handloom products, and light engineering and electric goods)
is 72 p.a. However, such export financing is limited and available only to
direct exporters in local currency for the purchase of domestic inputs. To
procure their imported inputs, Bangladeshi exporters can obtain foreign
exchange through the secondary foreign exchange markets by obtaining working
capital loans in local currency at 142 p.a., or they are required to obtain
suppliers' credit. Readymade garment producers as well as other users of
Special Bonded Warehouses have had to rely exclusively on suppliers' credits
through the back-to-back LIC. These sources of financing are relatively
expensive and, more importantly, are generally not available to new exporters
just entering the market. The EDF is intended to supplement the existing
sources of financing by making: (a) working capital loans available in foreign
cu-rency at competitive international interest rates; and (b) a special effort
to exterd werking capital credit to new exporters of nontraditional goods who
are just zntering the market.
Adequacy of the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme
3.14     SBC is a Government-owned general insurance company.  Its ECGW,
created in 1978, is Bangladesh's only export credit guarantee institution and
provides pre- and post-shipment export credit guarantees to banks and
comprehensive guarantees to exporters. Through 1986, ECGW's export insurance



-10-
covered 7? of total merchandise exports and 222 of nontraditional exports.
Because of staff and financial limitations and lack of operational autonomy in
processing claims, ECGW is regarded as relatively slow and ineffective. Small
and new exporters have typically been unable to gain access to export finanicing
due to the guarantee scheme's institutional weaknesses and the conservative
att..tude of commercial banks, which demand physical collateral. ECGW is also
losing substantial amounts of money, largely because claims exceed fee .ncome;
SBC, a publicly-owned company with commercial objectives, bears these losses,
which discourages it from expanding the export guarantee program, incurring
administrative or promotional expenses or processing claims quickly.
3.15     To improve the export credit guarantee scheme, GOB has already
initiated a program to expand and strengthen the ECGW. In 1987, the ECGW was
converted into a separate department with its own account and budget,
increasing its autonomy. Its capital was increased from Tk 16.1 million to
Tk 29.2 million, reducirg its leverage ratio. High leverage ratio has been an
important reason for the system's generally perceived low credibility. Both to
improve current services and in anticipation of increased export activity. GOB
also increased ECGW's working capital from Tk 5.4 million in 1985 to Tk 133.3
million in 1988, and its staff strength from 18 in 1985 to 36 in 1988. The
staff strength is authorized to reach 87 by 1990. Further strengthening of
ECGW is crucial to meet the expanded guarantee demands expected from the new
export financing system and duty-free import administration. To strengthen
ECGW, GOB has agreed to cause SBC to prepare a study by June 30, 1990 to review
its export credit insurance policies, and by September 30, 1990 provide IDA
with an action program based on the study's recommendations/proposals to
implement a comprehensive training program for ECGW staff and to enhance its
financial viability and operational autonomy within SBC. The study would
review several aspects of SBC's export credit guarantee operations, including:
(a) a recommendation whether export credit guarantee insurance should be made
mandatory for borrowers seeking export financing; (b) revision of the fee
structure to cover claims and administrative and promotional expenses
adequately; (c) measures to increase ECGW's authority to incur expenditures so
long as they fall within overall budgetary levels pre-agreed by SBC prior to
the end of each fiscal year; (d) policies and procedures for better monitoring
of the sale of collateral goods associated with paid claims and collection of
sale proceeds; (e) other measures designed to reduce ECGW losses or increase
ECGW financial autonomy from SBC; (f) design of a simple but effective
monitoring system to track insurance applications, outstanding insurance
policies and claims, and analysis of claims experience, to improve ECGW's
operational efficiency and effectiveness; and (g) a comprehensive program of
training for ECGW staff.
Market Information Constraints
3.16     Until December 1977, export promotion related matters were dealt with
by the Commerce Ministry's Export Promotion Unit. In January 1978, the Export
Promotion Bureau (EPB), a semi-autonomous body, was formed under the Commerce
Ministry and entrustea with promotion of Bangladesh exports. In 1986,
Bangladesh was hit with "quota shock' when its major market, the Unites States,
suddenly imposed quoLas on Bangladesh garment exports, leading to hardship for



-11-
many garment exporters. Since then, GOB has improved its capacity to respond
quickly to the imposition of import quotas in selected products and markets.
The quota allocation policy has been substantially improved in recent years,
and quotas are now announced sufficiently in advance of the quota year. In
addition, the EPB has established an Export Monitoring Unit (EHU) to
systematically monitor the progress of firms with quota allocations. The
monitoring system, consisting of a repr.ting scheme by which EPB would be
informed by the commercial banks responsible for processing export L/Cs and by
customs when shipments are actually made, would permit GOB to ensure that
quotas are utilized to the maximum extent and to reallocate unfilled quotas in
a timely manner. The proposed Project would provide technical assistance to
EPB to help it develop and implement the monitoring system effectively.
IV. THE BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE IN THE TRADE,
INDUSTRIAL, AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Past IDA Lending
4.1      Since 1972, when Bangladesh was established, IDA's assistance to its
trade, industrial and financial sectors has consisted of 28 operations
amounting to about US$1.7 billion equivalent, and has focussed on the
liberalization of these sectors to contribute to a higher, sustained economic
growth level, provide productive employment for its rapidly growing labor force
and improve the external trade and balance of payments position on a sustained
basis. IDA has pursued these objectives through a series of 13 program credits
(totalling US$1.2 billion equivalent), as well as an industrial technical
assistance credit (Cr. 622-BD) (totalling US$7.5 million equivalent), four
projects to increase fertilizer production and distribution (totalling US$135
million equivalent), three projects to balance, modernize and rehabilitate the
country's jute and textile industries (totalling about US$95 million
equivalent) and three projects (totalling about US$45 million equivalent) to
promote small-scale industries. For medium- and large-scale private sector
industry, IDA has provided two development bank credits totalling US$75 million
equivalent through the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank. IDA has also supported GOB's
industrial policy reforms through an ISC (Cr. 1816-BD) and its efforts to
promote energy efficiency use among industrial enterprises through the FY88
Industrial Energy Efficiency Project (Cr. 1942-BD). In foreign resource flow
terms (net of cancellations) these operations represent a transfer of resources
of US$1.6 billion at current prices.
4.2      In late FY88 IDA learned that GOB had not been implementing the
subsidiary loan agreements' onlending terms and conditions for commercial
entities under ongoing IDA credits, Asian Development Bank loans and loans from
various bilateral donors. For IDA credits, GOB has required entities, with few
exceptions, to make interest payments and repayments of principal on the same
terms as GOB repayments to IDA, rather than in accordance with the subsidiary
loan agreements. With IDA's agreement, GOB has adopted the following action
plan to address this issue for IDA credits. Beginning with their FY89
accounts, all entities were instructed to record in their financial statements



-12-
payments of interest and principal in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the subsidiary loan agreements, and would be in compliance with the
subsidiary loart agreements. Further, GOB has decided that all of the arrears
of energy sector entities as of June 30, 1988 will be converted into equity,
and it will fully implement this decision by June 30. 1989. For the
outstanding arrears under the subsidiary loan agreements for all other
entities, GOB has decided to either convert them into equity or to reschedule
repayments depending upon the financial circumstances of each entity. GOB will
finalize its decision for each entity by June 30, 1989 and implement it
immediately thereafter. Future compliance with the terms and conditions of the
subsidiary loan agreements -111 be monitored closely by supervision missions.
B. Impact of Past Trade, Industrial, and Financial. Sector Operations
4.3      IDA's experience with its past trade, industrial and financial sector
operations has been mixed. The program credits have successfully provided GOB
with necessary balance of payments support, particularly during years when the
economy had to confront stresses caused by natural disasters and/or terms of
trade deterioration of its major commodity exports of jute and tea. They have
also achieved substantial, albeit slow, liberalization in the trade regime and
investment licensing systems. Hore recently, the ISC assisted GOB in its
accelerated effort to rationalize its trade, industrial and financial sector
policies through reforms in industrial licensing, export policy and
administrationt, tariffs and import controls, public sector enterprises
efficiency and improving portfolio quality. Except for shortfalls in the
recovery of industrial term loans, GOB's implementation of the ISC program was
generally satisfactory, ani the second tranche was released in June 1988.
4.4      IDA-assisted fertilizer projects have helped Bangladesh to achieve
self-sufficiency and develop a potential for exporting natural gas-based
fertilizers. Through a judicious program of efficient import substitution, GOB
has generated foreign exchange savings of about VS$100 million per year since
the early 1980s. Nevertheless, a recent IDA fertilizer sector review
identified marketing and financial issues which, if properly addressed, could
improve the performance of existing plants.
4.5      The jute and textile balancing, modernization and rehabilitation
projects experienced substantial delays and cost overruns and have had a more
limited impact. Both industries, particularly the public sector mills,
continue to face serious subsectoral issues of operational autonomy, high costs
due to overstaffing, excess capacity, production inefficiency, high debt
overhang, foreign competition in the case of textiles and periodic price
declines in the case of jute. The three small-scale industry projects have
provided substantial resources for small and cottage industries in Bangladesh.
However, due to a difficult investment climate, barriers to entry, administered
interest rates and a general lack of credit discipline, these projects have not
been as successful as originally envisioned during appraisal. The investment
projects for medium- and large-scale enterprises similarly had a limited impact
on industrial sector growth and, despite substantial technical assistance to
the development banks, these banks continue to suffer from institutional
weaknesses and poor lcan recovery rates.  Pending the results of a UNDP-funded
technical assistance program executed by the Asian Development Bank and further
financial sector reforms, IDA has not extended any new loans to the development
banks.



-13-
C. IDA's Future Involvement
4.6      The main thrust of IDA's further involvement in the industrial sector
is to work closely with GOB to address remaining policy and procedure
constraints, particularly those affecting export development and industrial
finance. The proposed FSC, which is based on the FY88 Financial Sector Review,
would inter alia modify the structure of interest rates to reflect risks and
costs more adequately, improve banks' management information systems to enable
them tc, become more efficient, and enable GOB to improve loan recovery through
legal and accounting reforms and strengthening BB's capabilities to supervise
banks more effectively. IDA is also discussing with GOB continued reforms in
the trade regime, leading to a tariff-based system of industrial protection.
Reforms in this and other areas could form part of a possible ISC II. The
proposed Project would complement IDA initiatives under the Seventh and Eighth
Import Program Credits (Cr. 752-BD and Cr. 866-BD) and the ISC and the actions
proposed under the FSC.
4.7      Following on the ISC, and the proposed Project and FSC, IDA's future
industrial/financial sector lending in Bangladesh is expected to include a
number of credits to assist private investment (small, medium and large) and
public enterprises. These would continue to complement GOB's initiatives for
general reforms in trade, industry and financial sectors to promote more
rationality and financial discipline in industrial investments, both public and
private. A sector work program, consisting of studies on trade and tariffs,
public enterprises, and small and cottage industries, is planned to prepare for
IDA's lending operations.
D. IFC'S Role and Experience
4.8      In addition to IDA's involvement in the industrial sector, the IFC has
carried out four operations amounting to about US$8.5 million. As with IDA's
operations, IFC's experience in Bangladesh has been mixed. It successfully
introduced the concept of leasing in Bangladesh which has provided another
source of financing for industrial enterprises. Its investment in shoe
manufacturing has been instrumental in improving production technology and
management and contributed to increased output and employment. In the
financial sector IFC was involved in the establishment of an industrial
promotion company which has had modest success. However, a fourth IFC
operation is under litigation. In addition to its investment operations IFC
has carried out several studies for GOB to provide the basis for policy reform.
In FY87, at GOB's request, it conducted a pilot study to advise GOB on the
financing mechanisms and methodology of public enterprise divestiture in the
chemical industry. Following this study, GOB partially privatized six public
enterprises in FY88, and another ten are identified for partial privatization
in FY89. In FY88, IFC completed a Foreign Direct Investment Study (pars. 3.8)
which recommended policy and procedural reforms to improve the foreign
investment climate substantially. Since then, GOB has established a Board of
Investment and instituted major procedural changes. IFC remains ready to
assist in the financing of viable projects despite its mixed experience to
date. It is also available to provide fee-based advisory services to help GOB
in institution-building (including the recently established Board of
Investment), structuring project proposals and improving the investment
climate.



-14-
V. THE PROJECT
A.  Proiect Objectives and Description
5.1      As noted earlier fparas. 3.5-3.16), exporters in Bangladesh do not
have automatic access to foreign exchange preshipment financing at
international rates of interest, automatic access to duty-free imported inputs,
nor do they have adequate. timely market knowledge about export commodities
subject to quota limitations. The proposed Project would assist GOB's efforts
to promote exports by eliminating these constraints and furthering its trade,
industrial and financial policy reforms through a line of preshipment foreign
exchange credit for exporters and a comprehensive technical assistance program.
5.2      Lack of access to credit and ready availability of foreign exchange
preshipment financing at international interest rates have been a major
bottleneck to the growth of exports. By providing a line of credit, the
proposed Project would augment GOB funds in an EDF in BB to hep meet
exporters' preshipment foreign exchange requirements. The proposed Project is
intended as a transitional link in IDA projects to support GOB reforms in
trade, industry and financial sector policies.
5.3      Technical assistance under the proposed Project would generalize and
extend export financing to direct and indirect exporters by helping BB operate
the EDF and implement a generalized inland back-to-back LIC system; improve and
make more automatic exporters' access to the duty-free imported inputs by
assisting the DEDO improve its administration of the duty drawback system;
improve access to finance by newer as well as established exporters exploring
new markets or products by strengthening SBC's ECGW; and improve exporters'
access to knowledge of market conditions, especially in markets subject to
quota limitations, by helping the EPB operate its EMU.
B. Project Components
5.4      The proposed Project includes: a line of credit of US$25.0 million
equivalent to augment US$5 million equivalent of GOB funds in the EDF and a
US$1.2 million equivalent technical assistance program to BB, DEDO, SBC and
EPB, the key institutions engaged in export finance and administration. USAID
has indicated its agreement in principle to finance the technical assistance
component as a grant to: BB, to implement the inland LiC; DEDO, to improve its
ability to calculate duu.y drawback rates and the efficiency of refunding
drawbacks; ECGW, to strengthen the export credit guarantee scheme; and EPB, to
improve its export monitoring information system for exports subject to
international quotas.
Export Development Fund
5.5      GOB would establish the EDF in BB with a contribution of US$5 million
from its own foreign exchange resources. This would be supplemented by a
US$25.0 million credit from the proposed Project. GOB's establishment of the
EDF with an initial contribution of at least US$3 million equivalent would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness and the remaining GOB contribution of US$2
mill' a would be deposited before July 1, 1990. GOB has agreed to earmark US$6



-15-
million (202 of the initial EDP) 3 promote the activities of new
nontraditional exporters (para. _1). The EDF would be a self-sustaining
revolviug fund, providing up to 180-day foreign currency preshipment financing
to exporters, in line with the export production cycle, at an international
interest rate. Disbursements from the EDF subloans would be made by
commercial banks directly to the suppliers, and repayments to the EDF will be
deducted by commercial banks from payments to exporters by their buyers. GOB
has agreed that it would use the principal and interest repaid to EDF on
account of subloans and any interest accrued on the investment of the EDF funds
for further lending to eligible exporters. The draft Lending Policies and
Operating Procedures for the EDF were agreed with GOB, which issued them on
December 7, 1988 in the form of BB Circular No. 29 (Annex 1). The main
features of the Lending Policies and Operating Procedures cover the EDF's
management, eligibility criteria for use of EDF funds, procedures to access the
EDP, terms and conditions of subloans, procurement procedures under the EDF. as
well as periodic reviews of eligibility criteria, rediscounting spreads,
interest rates, demand and, eventually, provisions to review if the EDF should
be terminated.
5.6      In the Bank Group's experience, demand for export funds in some
countries have not been as strong as originally envisaged for a number of
reasons, including the availability of alternative sources of relatively
inexpensive financing, new institutions and unwieldy procedures to administer
the funds, the inability of centrai banks to convert soft currencies into hard
currencies to replenish the fund and perpetuation of such funds beyond their
usefulness. In contrast, they have been successful in countries such as
Mexico, Jamaica and Yugoslavia during periods when exporters experienced
limited access for competitively-priced fo-eign currency financing, the
commercial banks understood the mechanics of export financing, and the spreads
were adequate for the commercial banks. To avoid some of the shortcomings in
the Bank's Group previous experience with export development funds, such as
their continued existence beyond their usefulness or use of funds for purposes
not related to export promotion, GOB has agreed that:  (a) GOB and IDA would
review the demand for the EDP annually beginning January 31, 1990, including
the amount set aside for new nontraditional exporters, and if demand for the
latter is found to be low during these annual reviews, efforts will be made by
GOB to remedy the situation; (b) should there be insufficient demand for
earmarked funds for new exporters, GOB, in consultation with IDA, would
reallocate these earmarked funds to the general EDF for use by all eligible
exporters; (c) if the demand for EDF funds substantially exceeds the funds
available, GOB would contribute additional foreign exchange to the EDF,
equivalent to 20? of the annual excess demand (defined as the difference
between the amounts of valid financing requested by eligible subborrowers and
the actual amounts lent from the EDP over the previous 12 months), or such
other adequate amounts as GOB would determine in consultation with IDA up to a
maximum of US$10 million equivalent, to increase the fund's size; and (d) a
joint GOB/IDA review of the EDP would be conducted on or about December 31,
1992 to determine if the EDP should continue. Should the EDF be phased out,
GOB has agreed that the EDF's assets and liabilities would be transferred to
its general exchange resources.



-16-
5.7      All EDP subborrowers would be required to iake ou.. export credit
insurance. This should encourage commercial banks to make loans to new
nontraditional exporters who might otherwise be denied credit because of
perceived risks and the commercial banks' limited ability to assess risks
adequately, thus providing new exporters more opportunities to avail of the EDF
and increasing incremental nontraditional exports. The ECGW does not deal in
foreign exchange; if foreign currency liabilities arise due to non-performance
by an exporter, GOB has agreed that the latter would be responsible for
repaying the commercial bank with foreign exchange purchased on the .%condary
foreign exchange market, as is currently the case with garment exporters. To
strengthen the ECGW's operational capabilities and financial viability, GOB has
agreed that it would cause SBC to annually, commencing not later than June 30,
1990, establish adequate levels of administrative and promotional expenditures
for ECGW in consultation with IDA.
Technical Assistance
5.8      The technical assistance (TA) component of the proposed Project of
about US$1.2 million equivalent consists of consultancy services, equipment and
materials and overseas training, including interrships of three to four month
duration, which would strengthen the institutional capabilities in Bangladesh
related to export financing and administration, as indicated in schematic form
in Table 5.1 below and described briefly in paras. 5.9-5.12 and in detail in
Annex 2. The proposed Praject would support the introduction of several
actions that would be innovative for Bangladesh. The key officials responsible
for implementing the export financing, export guarantee and duty drawback
schemes could therefore benefit substantially from exposure to successful
practices in other countries. To ensure that the benefits from such training
are maximized, GOB has agreed that each of the participants in overseas
training would be required to: (a) submit a study plan for IDA's and USAID's
comments and approval; (b) agree, after completion of the training, to serve in
a relevant institution carrying out the functions for which training was given
in accordance with GOB's regulations on over3eas training; and (c) prepare a
report on the lessons learned from the training for the supervisor, IDA anc.
USAID.
TABLE 6.1 THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
----- Promotion-------
Reference
Computers                          Publications     and
--Consultants---   and other  --Training--   Semi ars/   and Media  Resesrch
Expatriate Local  Eauipient  Overseas Local  Workshops  Advertisement   Material
88                                    X               X          X
NSR (EDO)  X       X       X          X               X          X            x
SBC (ECGW)  X      X       X          X               X          X            X
EPS (EMU)          X       X
5.9      Bangladesh Bank.  TA funding of about US$34,000 equivalent would be
provided to BB for: (a) preparation of a manual on export procedures and
financing, concentrating on how the inland LIC system and the proposed EDP
would be implemented to promote exports; (b) expenditures for course
materials, seminar facilities, honoraria and related costs that will be needed
to conduct, over a two-year period, eignt seminars aimed primarily to



-17-
disseminate information about the innovations in export financing; and
(c) travel costs for two senior BB of. icials, two senior commercial bank
officials, and one Ministry of Finance official to visit Korea, Singapore,
Hong Kong or other relevant countries to be agreed with IDA and JSAID to
observe the implementation of export financing schemes. These officials would
review tbese countries' successful experiences, identify potential pitfalls in
operating export financing schemes and make appropriate recommendations to
adopt successful practices in Bangladesh.
5.10     Duty Exemption Drawback Office.  TA funding of about US$708,500
equivalent would be provided to DEDO for: (a) 36 staff months of expatriate
consultancy to assist DEDO calculate input coefficients for products in
specialized subsectors for which no local expertise is available, and to
estimate the cost implications of taxes other than custom duties and sales
taxes and fees on Bangladeshi exports; (b) 36 staff months of local
consultancy to assist DEDO staff to calculate input coefficients and train
them in the use of computer technology; (c) computers and software and
educational equipment to support DEDO's operations; td) expenditures for
conducting eight seminart cver a two-year period, designed primarily to
disseminate iixformation on the revised legal frarework and mechanics of the
duty drawback systems; and (e) travel costs for six DEDO technical staff to
work in one or two countries (from among Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka
or other countries to be agreed with IDA and USAID) for three to four months
each on a secondment basis to learn by actually calculating input coefficients
and administering duty drawback systems, so that upon their return they will
make appropriate adaptations to Bangladesh and train their compatriots. Of
the 36 staff months of expatriate consultancy, 12 staff months will be
utilized for a Project Coordinator for the Project's entire technical
assistance component.
5.11     Export Credit Guarantee Wing.  TA funding of about US$412,000
equivalent would be provided to ECGW for: (a) six staff months of expatriate
consultancy to design a management information system and to conduct a study
on how ECGW can revise its fee structure and how it can be provided greater
operational autonomy within SBC in respect of promotion of its activities,
personnel practices and claims procedures; (b) 12 staff months of local
consultancy to implement a Management Information System and train ECGW staff
in use of comluters; (c) computers, software, and office equipment to assist
ECCW staff establish an effective and efficient Management Information System;
(d) reference materials on export credit guarantee schemes and international
trade finance; (e) ECGW's promotional activities and media advertisements,
including publication of manuals and brochures on its export credit guarantee
schemes; (f) expenditures for conducting six training courses and seven 1-day
seminars, designed primarily to promote the ECGW's export credit guarantee
schemes; and (g) travel costs for eight technical ECGW staff to work in the
export credit guarantee organizations on secondment on tour to five-week
internships in countries like India and Singapore, or other countries to be
agreed with IDA and USAID, so that they could adapt successful practices to
Bangladesh.



-18-
5.12     ElDort Promotion Bureau.  Finally, TA funding of about US$60.000
equivalent would be provided to EPB for: (a) three staff months of local
consultancy to help its EKU implement an information system to monitor quota
utilization for Bangladeshi exports subject to quota limitations; and
(b) office equipment to enable EMU to carry out its monitoring operations more
effectively and efficiently.
5.13     GOB has secured USAID's agreement in principle to provide grant
funding for US$1.2 million equivalent for the proposed Project',. technical
assistance componeat.  Final agreement with USAID on the technical assistance
would be a condition for Credit effectiveness.
C. Costs and Financing Plan
5.14     Project Costs.  Total financing required for the proposed Project is
estimated at US$31.2 million equivalent, of which US$30.7 million equivalent
or 98Z would be in foreign exchange, as shown below:
TABLE 5.2 PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Foreign
as Z of
Compon-
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   ent
-----Tk Million------  -----USS Million-----
Estimated Costs:
Preshipment import
Financing                 -      988.5    988.5    -        30.0    30.0  100.0
Technical Assistance       15.4      23.4     38.8    0.51a   0.7      1.2   60.3
Total Project Costs        15.4  1,011.9  1,027.3    0.5    30.7    31.2   98.5
Foreign as
Z of Total
Financing Plan:
GOB                         -       164.7    164.7    -        5.0     5.0   16.0
IDA                         -      823.8    823.8    -        25.0    25.0   80.2
USAID                      15.4      23.4     38.8    0.5      0.7     1.2    2.3
Total Financing Reauired  15.4  1,011.9  1,027.3    0.5    30.7    31.2   98.5
la  Includes US$0.02 million in duties and taxes on the machinery and equipment.



-319-
5.15     Estimates of the import financing are based on BB projections of
annual preshipment fore3.gn input financing for key export industries, such as
high domestic content readymade garments, leather and leather goods, and
chemical and engineering products, estimated at about US$90 million. Assuming
an average turnover period of about four months, an initial EDF amount of
US$30 million would be appropriate. Estimates of technical assistance were
based on the agencies' requirements for consultancy services, based on 42
staff months of foreign and 57 staff months of local consultancy expertise.
and their requirements for materials and equipment, seminars, and local and
overseas training, as detailed in Annex 2.
5.16     Proiect Financing Plan.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 million
would meet 802 of the Project's total financing requirements. IDA would
provide 83Z of the initial import financing under the EDF, and GOB the rest.
USAID would finance the technical assistance component by a grant.
VI. THE CREDIT
A. IDA Terms and Conditions
6.1      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 19.4 million (US$25 million
equivalent) would be made to GOB on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
B. EDF Operations
6.2      Lending Arrangements.  GOB would use the proceeds of the Credit to
supplement its own EDF resources and will make these funds available to all
scheduled commercial banks through BB. The banks would lend foreign exchange
from their own foreign exchange positions to eligible direct and indirect
exporters and rediscount these loans with BB. BB has agreed to administer the
EDF gratis initially as part of its effort to help GOB promote exports.
Further, BB has agreed that it would collect information relatec to the costs
of administering the EDF and review such costs annually to determine if and
how much it should charge for its services. GOB would earmark US$6 million of
the initial funding of US$30 million (para. 5.5) to rediscount loans to new
nontraditional exporters on more favorable terms than the commercial banks,
loans to established exporters (para. 6.4).
6.3      Lending Terms.  The commercial banks would charge an interest rate
pegged to the six-month London Inter Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR) on EDF subloans.
At the time the EDP is established, the interest rate would be LIBOR plus 1Z.
Thereafter, the rate would be adjusted at the end of every quarter to be 12
above the LIBOR at the time, or whenever LIBOR increases or decreases by more
than 25 basis points (0.25Z) compared to the LIBOR at the time when the EDF
interest rate was last set. The interest rate would be set at the time a
subloan is disbursed to an exporter, which would normally occur wt.en the LIC
documents for the imported inruts are negotiated.
6.4      Setting the ultimate lending rate at LIBOR plus IZ is considered
appropriate since the effective interest rate would be about three to five
percentage points higher than the nominal rate due to the subborrowers having
to bear the foreign exchange risks. Further, the demand for EDF resources



-20-
would be sufficient to justify the proposed EDF size since the proposed
lending rate should be attractive to subborrowers. The currert interest rate
for working capital loans in local currency at 142 p.a. is positive and
relatively high. Adjusting the subborrower interest rate periodically in
response to changes in LIBOR would facilitate the administration of the EDP by
eliminating daily fluctuations while ensuring that subborrowers are not unduly
rewarded or penalized by movements in the LIBOR.
6.5      BB would rediscount commercial bank export financing to subborrowers
on a first come, first served basis. BB's rediscounting rates would allow
commercial banks a spread of 3.5Z for their loans to new nontraditional
exporters and a spread of 2.52 for other eligible subborrowers. BB would
review these spreads every six months to ensure that they are adequate and
appropriate and, if necessary, modify them in consultation with IDA.
6.6      Subloan Eligibility and Size Limits.  All direct exporters of
nontraditional goods, defined as firms, z.,ndividuals or partnerships exporting
goods other than jute or jute goods (except jute carpets) and tea (except
consumer packaged tea and teabags), and garment exporters with domestic
content of at least 30Z and all indirect exporters who supply inputs with
imported content to direct exporters of nontraditional goods would be eligible
to utilize EDF funds. New nontraditional exporters are defined as first-time
exporters or those who have not exported more than three times prior to their
application for an 2;DF subloan. To promote financial discipline, defaulters
with the banking system, already barred from receiving new credits under
existing BB rules and regulations, as well as EDF defaulters, would not be
eligible to use the ED?.
6.7      Except as otherwise agreed by GOB and IDA, the maximum subloan size
would be US$200,000, and the maximum outstanding credit to any one exporter
would be US$500,000. Such limits are intended to ensure that the proceeds of
the EDP would be made available to a large number of eligible exporters and
that new exporters would not be crowded out by large established ones. If
these limits should constrain an exporter's ability to import the inputs
required for a firm order, the exporter's commercial bank could recommend to
BB to make individual exceptions, which BB could approve in consultation with
IDA.
C. Administrative ArranRements
6.8      Procurement.  Exporters would follow normal commercial practice for
procurement of raw materials and other imported inputs from countries and
territories referred to in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Since
procurement for imports financed by subloans would depend on the decisions by
many enterprises for a large number of items, and given that timing is of
crucial importance in executing export orders, international competitive
bidding is not practical. Excapt for proprietary items, subborrowers from the
EDF would be required to procure goods through competitive shopping, which
would include invitation of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers. In
order to meet the needs of small and/or indirect exporters as well as the
needs for smaller contracts of the other exporters, goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount



-21-
not to exceed the equivalent of US$5 million, could be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods. Contracts for proprietary items could be let on a
negotiated basis, but award of such contracts would be subject to prior
approval by IDA.  Commercial banks would disburse EDF subloans directly to
foreign suppliers or domestic suppliers upon the negotiation of import L/Cs or
inland L/Cs, respectively. EDF Lending Policies and Operating Procedures
would provide that the commercial banks require subborrowers to follow
competitive shopping procedures, and BB would ensure that commercial banks
follow such practice as part of its bank supervision activities.
6.9      In a letter dated February 7, 1989 USAID reiterated to GOB its
agreement in principle to fund the proposed Project's technical assistance
component with a grant. TA funded by USAID would be made in accordance with
its procedures; the consultants' experience, qualifications and terms of
reference would be satisfactory to IDA and GOB.
6.10     Disbursements.  GOB would set up the EDF with an initial contribution
of US$3 million (para. 5.5). IDA would open a Special Account with an initial
deposit of US$3 millicn. Replenishments of the Special Account would be
requested by GOB by submitting monthly BB statements on Credit usage supported
by statements of expenditures. BB would then apportion the replenishmen(s
until the US$6 million earmarked for new exporters is reached. The detailed
documentation evidencing final expenditures on items financed would be /
retained by BB and reviewed by IDA during supervision missions.
Reimbursements from IDA from the Credit would cover up to 100Z of the c.i.f.
costs of imported raw materials, spare parts and other imported inputs for
exporters for which disbursements have been made by BB from the revolving
fund. The disbursement experience of previous Bank Group-supported export
development funds has not been uniform. No standard disbursement profile is
available but in previous Bank Group-financed export fund projects,
disbursements have usually been slow in the initial periods while banks and
exporters familiarized themselves with new systems and procedures. Based on
appraisal estimates, it is expected that disbursements would be completed
within three years and a half of Credit effectiveness (Annex 3).
6.11     Auditing and Reporting Requirements.  BB would submit to IDA
quarterly reports on the utilization of the EDF by scheduled commercial banks,
which would show inter alia the size of subloans, products, exporters, markets
exported to and export earnings generated.  The EDF and statements of
expenditures would be audited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor General
of GOB, or other independent auditors of BE acceptable to IDA, following
accounting principles satisfactory to IDA, and these reports would be
furnished to IDA no later than nine months following the end of the fiscal
year.
6.12     In addition, in order to review the Credit's overall impact and the
benefits derived from the initial years of revolving fund operations, GOB
would prepire the standard completion report within six months following the
final disbursements of the Credit proceeds.



-22-
D. Benefits and Risks
6.13     Benefits.  Access to foreign exchange financing at international
interest rates and duty-free access to imported inputs would enable
Bangladeshi exporters to compete with exporters of manufactured goods from
other countries. The proposed Project would provide Bangladeshi exporters
with a steadily available source of foreign exchange financing pegged to the
six-month LIBOR. Through the TA program, the proposed Project would also
strengthen BB's capabilities to implement a generalized inland L/C system, and
strengthen the administrative capabilities of ECGW and the credibility of its
export insurance. TA would also assist DEDO to calculate input coefficients
and streamline its procedures for the timely processing of Bangladeshi
ezporters' duty drawback claims, thus facilitating their access to imported
inputs. Together with an attractive spread on the EDF to give banks added
incentive to lend to new exporters, the proposed Project would facilitate the
growth of incremental exports, diversify the export base and increase the
value added in export activities through backward integration.
6.14     Initially, it is expected that the users of the proposed EDF would be
larger, better established borrowers who are current or potential exporters.
Eventually, as the system's operational aspects and benefits system become
better known, newer, less well-established exporters would also begin to use
the EDF. As the inland LIC is implemented effectively, more and more indirect
exporters would also contribute to exports. All these would lead to
incremental exports. Due to eligibility criteria, only high domestic content
garment exporters and nontraditional exporters would be eligible to use the
ED?. With maximum size limits on subloan and limitations of outstanding
export credits to any one exporter, the EDF should be utilized by a large
number of potential exporters. Improvements in DEDO and ECGW would facilitate
more automatic access by exporters to duty-free imports and credit,
encouraging newer exporters. In addition, changes in customs procedures
carried out as a result of the ISC have improved the ease of exporters' access
to their imported inputs.
6.15     Risks.  The main risks concern:  (a) GOB's ability to implement the
technical assistance program to strengthen institutions engaged in export
administration: (b) demand for the EDF; and (c) the extent of participation of
the commercial banks.
6.16     If the proposed Project's TA component is not implemented
effectively, many of its institution-building objectives are unlikely to be
achieved. Concrete, monitorable steps, such as schedules for seminars,
vetting of consultants, and requiring IDA and USAID concurrence on the nature,
duration, and venue of such training (paras. 5.8-5.13), have been built into
the component and, together with intensive and frequent review by IDA and
USAID, reduce such a risk. Careful design of the terms of reference with the
agencies' full participation, appropriate blending of foreign and local
consultants, and appointment of an expatriate consultant to monitor ani
coordinate TA activities would ensure effective absorption of the proposed
Project's technical assistance.



-23-
6.17     Factors constraining the demand for other Bank Group-supported export
funds (which were elaborated in para. 5.6) are not found in Bangladesh. Other
than the proposed EDF, there are no compatitive sources of preshipment export
financing in foreign exchange in Bangladesh; the alternatives of purchasing
foreign exchange in the secondary market and of using suppliers' credits are
relatively more expensive and usually limited to exporters already having
access to credit. The EDF would be managed by existing departments in BB
familiar with IDA procedures. No separate, costly, cumbersome bureaucracy
would be needed to administer the EDF. Existing practices would be used. BB
would conduct seminars to promote the use of the revolving fund to the
commercial banks and exporters. Subloans would be denominated and repaid in
foreign currency; no problems of conversion should arise. The interest rate,
while internationally competitive, would be attractive (para. 6.3). Demand
for EDF would be reviewed annually, and to guard against the experience of
other countries, where such funds have sometimes continued to exist despite
the loss of their raison d'etre, the EDF's performance would be formally
reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1992, to determine whether it continues to be
needed (para. 5.6).
6.18     The commercial banks may not be interested in participating in the
EDF to lend to the target group--newer nontraditional exporters. This risk
would be reduced by requiring all users of the EDF loan facility to take out
export insurance and by providing commercial banks attractive spreads for EDF
lending. Commercial banks would be given an attractive spread to encourage
the EDF's use, including an even more favorable spread for loans to new
nontraditional exporters (para. 6.4). The banks' perceived risks of lending
to the target group would also be reduced through a strengthened, more
effective ECGW.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
7.1      During negotiations GOB agreed that:
(a)  it would establish the EDF with an initial contribution of US$3
million equivalent and to deposit an amount equivalent to US$2 million
by July 1, 1990;
(b) it would cause the SBC to: (i) prepare a study by June 30, 1990 to
review its export credit insurance policies; (ii) by September 30.
1990, provide IDA with an action program based on the
recommendations/proposals of the study to implement a comprehensive
training program for ECGW staff and enhance ECGW's financial viability
and operational autonomy within SBC (para. 3.15); and (iii) agree
prior to the end of each year beginning FY90, to adequate levels of
ECGW administrative expenditures (including promotional expenditures),
in consultation with IDA (para. 5.7);
(c) repayments to the EDF and profits generated from EDF operations would
be retained in the EDF for further lending to eligible exporters
(para. 5.5);



-24-
(d) US$6 million (202 of the initial EDF) would be earmarked for
new nontraditional exporters (para. 5.5):
te)  the EDF would operate in accordance with the Lending Policies and
Operating Procedures for the EDF satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.5);
(f) GOB and IDt would review the demand for the EDF annually beginning
January 31, 1990, including the earmarked amount for new
nontraditional exporters, and if demand for the latter is found to be
low during these reviews, efforts would be made by GOB to remedy the
situation (para. 5.6);
(g) should there be insufficient demand for earmarked funds for new
exporters, GOB would reallocate them to the general EDF for use by all
eligible exporters in consultation with IDA (para. 5.6);
(h) should the demand for EDF funds substantially exceed the funds
available, GOB would contribute additional foreign exchange to the
EDP, equivalent to 202 of the annual excess demand (defined as the
difference between the amounts of valid financing requested by
eligible subborrowers and the actual amounts lent from the EDF over
the previous 12 months), or such adequate amounts as GOB would
determine in consultation with IDA up to a maximum of US$10 million
equivalent (para. 5.6);
Ci) a joint GOB/IDA review would be conducted on or about December 31,
1992 to determine !f the EDF should continue (para. 5.6); and
Cj) each of the participants in the overseas training would be required
to: (i) submit a study plan for IDA's and USAID's approval;
(ii) remain in a relevant institution in accordance with GOB's
regulations on overseas training carrying out the functions for which
he/she was trained after his/her return from training; and
(iii) prepare a report on the lessons of training for the supervisor,
IDA and USAID (para. 5.8).
7.2     Prior to Credit effectiveness, GOB would:
(a) establish the EDF and initiate its operations by contributing
at least US$3 million equivalent from its own foreign exchange
resources (para. 5.5); and
(b) secure USAID agreement of required funding for technical assistance
(para. 5.13).
Recommendation
7.3     With the above agreements and assurances, the Project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 19.4 million (US$25 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the People's Republic
of Bangladesh.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
-25-
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export Development Fund--Statement of Lending Policy and Operating Procedures
(Bangladesh Bank Circular No. 29 dated December 7, 1988)
I. Obiectives
1.       The Export Development Fund (EDF) is expected to contribute to a
sustained export drive and long-term development of Bangladesh's non-
traditional exports by:
(a) assuring a continued availability of foreign exchange to meet the
import requirements of nontraditional exporters, particularly
newer exporters, exporters diversifying into higher value exports,
and expo._ers diversifying into new markets;
(b)  encouraging foreign suppliers, overseas coL'irming houses, and
foreign commercial banks to provide short-term credit lines to
Bangladeshi exporters; and
(c) complementing other export development policies, such as improved
access to duty-free imported inputs and generalization of an inland
Letter of Credit (L/C) system, being implemented by the Government of
the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) to promote nontraditional
exports. diversify exports, and encourage higher value added exports.
2.       Existence of the EDF will provide assurance to nontraditional
exporters of the continued availability of foreign exchange to finance their
imported input requirements.  This would provide additional confidence and
evidence of GOB's commitment to the development of nontraditional exports.
The result should provide a stimulus to private sector export production and
marketing effort, and encourage investments in market development and plant
and equipment necessary to expand export capacity.
3.       It is GOB's intention to gradually eliminate structural and
regulatory constraints to financing of imported inputs required for export
manufacturing, so that the need for a separate EDF will be eliminated in due
course. Imported input financing for exports will continue to be a top
priority of GOB, even if the EDF is eventually eliminated. A joint IDAIGOB
review of the EDF will be conducted about December 31, 1992 to determine if
the EDF should continue in its present form.
II. Organizational Aspects
A. Statutory Form
4.       The EDF will be a separate source of funding for financing foreign
exchange import requirements of exporters for their imported inputs. It will
be owned by GOB, and managed gratis by BB, which will use the EDF to refinance



ANNEX 1
-26-                         Page 2 of 5
foreign exchange credits advanced by scheduled banks to eligible exporters.
while BB will initially provide the administrative services on the EDF 8ratis,
it will account for the costs and this information will be reviewed annually
to determine if, and how much, BB should charge to provide these
administrative services.
B. Duration
5.       GOB will maintain the EDF until December 31, 1992. or such other date
as GOB and IDA may jointly determine after periodic reviews.
C. Domicile
6.       EDF will be established in BB, and will be managed by BB's staff in
the Banking Control and Accounts Department.
D. Capitalization
7.       GOB will establish the EDF with an initial contribution of at least
US$3 million and such contribution would be increased to US$5 million by
July 1, 1990.  This will be supplemented by the proposed IDA credit of US$25
million. GOB will cause BB to review demand for EDF funds annually. During
this review, demand for the earmarked funds to new, nontraditional exporters
will be examined. If the demand is sluggish, measures will be taken to
stimulate demand as a first step; but if it is determined that there is no
demand for the earmarked funds, these will be absorbed into general EDF funds
in consultation with IDA.
E. Segregation and Independence of Accounts
8.       EDF will maintain separate accounts of its operations.  The accounts
of the EDP shall be kept separate from other accounts and activities of BB,
and GOB will ensure that profits generated from EDF operations and from
deposit of EDF funds in interest-bearing accounts will be added to EDF
resources for use by eligible exporters.
F. Conduct of Operations
9.       All lending and investing programs carried out by scheduled banks
using the EDF for rediscounting shall be conducted in accordance with sound
business principles. The operations of the EDF will be conducted in
accordance with these Operating Policies and Summary Procedures, which have
been approved by GOB in agreement with IDA.
G. The EDF Advisory Committee
10.      The BB Board of Directors will appoint a Committee, which would
include BB officers and may include representatives from: External Resources
Division of the Ministry of Planning, Finance Division of the Ministry of
Finance, NBR. Export Credit Guarantee Wing (ECGW) of the Sadharan Bima
Corporation, Export Promotion Bureau, commercial banks, exporters, and



ANNEX 1
-27-                         Page 3 of 5
representatives from Federation of Bangladesh Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, who will meet at least once a quarter to:
(a) review the refinancing activities of the EDP;
(b) recommend changes in the policy;
(c) approve the annual report of EDF activities;
(d) approve those credit limits and transactions which involve a
departure from the established policies and procedures;
(e) provide general guidance, to the managers and staff of the EDF;
(f) review export pertormance under the EDF, discussing its broader
implications and examining other desirable government policies to
stimulate exports, focussing especially on those obstacles in gaining
access to imported inputs and export credit; and
(g)  make recommendations to other concerned agencies of goveranent
regarding administrative actions which would improve EDF's
effectiveness and be helpful in the overall development effort.
H. Audit of EDF Accounts
11.      EDF accounts and the statement of expenditures by which BB will seek
reimbursement under the IDA credit will be audited annually by the Comptroller
and Auditor General of GOB, or other independent auditors of BB acceptable to
IDA, and the auditor's report will be furnished to IDA.
III. Summary Operating Procedures
12.      Direct and indirect nontraditional exporters (defined as firms,
individuals, or partnerships exporting goods other than jute and jute goods
[excluding jute carpets] and tea, [excluding consumer packaged tea and
teabags]) and high domestic content (defined as those with 302 value added or
more) readymade garment exporters) will be eligible to approach scheduled
banks to use the proceeds of the EDF. New nontraditional exporters are
defined as first-time exporters or those who have exported not more than three
times prior to applying for an EDF subloan. The eligibility criteria will be
reviewed annually by the EDF Advisory Committee to ensure that EDF proceeds
are being utilized to promote exports by new exporters. If necessary, these
eligibility criteria will be changed in consultation with IDA. Defaulters
with the banking system will not have access to loans from commercial banks
using the EDF. Defawlters on EDF subloans will also not be eligible.
A. Earmarked Funds for New Exporters
13.      US$6 million of the initial EDF amount of US$30 million will be set
aside for the exclusive use by new nontraditional exporters in order to
promote their export activities.



ANNEX 1
-28-                        Page 4 of 5
B. Participating Financial Institutions
14.      All scheduled commercial banks will be abie to lend to eligible
nontraditional exporters and avail themselves of the facilities of the EDF.
These banks will be expected to utilize their foreign exchange positions and
refinance with BB on a first-come, first-served basis. They will disburse
directly to foreign or domestic suppliers of inputs to enable an eligible
exporter to use EDF funds. Upon using the EDF, the commercial banks will
assign the export proceeds to EDF and upon receipt of export payments from the
overseas buyer, forward to the EDF the outstanding principal and interest of
the exporter's credit, and then crediting to the exporters account. 'n the
event that the exporter fails to export, or his/her failure to receive payment
for his/her exports, the scheduled bank will debit the exporter's loan
account, pr&-ure the necessary foreign exchange from the secondary foreign
exchange market and repay the EDF.
15.      For the indirect exporters using the inland L/C system, the
commercial bank will pay the i direct exporter when the latter's inland L/C
documents are negotiated, and the commercial bank will transfer the foreign
exchange liability of the indirect exporter's imported inputs to the direct
exporter.  For the direct exporter, when export payments are received from the
overseas buyer, the commercial bank will forward to EDF the direct exporter's
outstanding principal and interest, which would include the portion owed by
the indirect exporter. Similar provisions as those for the direct exporters
apply to indirect exporters who fail to deliver intermediate inputs.
16.      Defaulters with the banking system or with the EDF, as determined by
commercial banks and BB, will be excluded from further support from the EDF.
C. Terms and Conditions
17.      The interest rate on EDF subloans will be pegged to the six-month
LIBOR. Initially, the interest rate w 1 be the LIBOR at the time the EDF is
established plus 1Z. Thereafter, the rate would be adjusted at the end of
every quarter to be 1Z above the LIBOR at the time; however, it will
automatically be adjusted to reflect the current whenever the latter increases
or decreases by more than 0.251 compared to the LIBOR at the time when the EDF
interest rate was last set. Direct exporters would be able to borrow for
their imported inputs based on confirmed, irrevocable L/C opened by an
overseas buyer, and indirect exporters would be able to borrow for imported
inputs based on confirmed, irrevocable inland back-to-back L/Cs opened by
direct exporters. The term of the preshipment loan from the EDP will be the
export production cycle or 180 days, whichever is shorter, and will not exceed
180 days.
D. Export Credit Guarantee
18.      Export credit insurance will be required for all users of the EDP. As
the ECGW does not deal in foreign exchange, in the case of foreign liabilities
that arise due to non-performance by a direct or indirect
exporter/subborrower, the guarantees will be paid out in local currency, and
foreign exchange procured from the secondary market to replenish the EDF.



ANNEX 1
-29-                          Page 5 of 5
E. Masiumum Subloan Sizes
19.      To ensure that EDF funds will be utilized as widely as possible, the
maximum subloan size for subborrowers would normally be US$200,000 equivalent,
and the aggregate outstanding amount of subloans to any sub-borrower will not
exceed US$500.000. Upon application by commercial banks, BB will consider
granting individual exceptions to these normal size limits in consultation
with IDA.
F. Credit Risk
20.      The credit risk for the advances using the EDF will be borne by the
scheduled commercial banks, except for the proportion covered by the ECGW.
G. Foreign Exchange Risks
21.      The subborrower will bear the foreign exchange risks of the advances
using EDF.
H. Interest
22.      The interest rate to the exporter/subborrower will be charged on the
outstanding subloan from the date of disbursement.
I. Spreads on Rediscounting with EDF
23.      The BB will provide a spread of 3.5Z on advances to new
nontraditional exporters and a spread of 2.52 on all other advances
rediscounted with the EDF.  This is in order to encourage commercial banks to
provide financing of imported inputs for new exporters. BB will review the
rediscount spreads every six months to ensure their adequacy and
appropriateness, and modify them when necessary in consultation with IDA.
J. Procurement Using EDF Funds
24.      The subborrowers from scheduled commercial banks using the EDF will
be expected to follow normal commercial practice for procurement of raw
mat6rials, accessories, and other imported inputs. BB will ensure through
periodic bank supervision that commercial banks enforce the requirement of
normal commercial practice of competitive shopping, including inviting
quotations from no fewer than three suppliers for the procurement of raw
materials and other imported inputs. Goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$25,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such
goods, provided that procurement of such goods does not in the aggregate
exceed US$5,000,000. Contracts for proprietory items would be let on a
negotiated basis, but award of such contracts would be subject to prior
approval by IDA.



ANNEX 2
-30-                           Page 1 of 8
B/NGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
1.       To more effectively implement its export policies and administration,
the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has established a Duty Examption-Drawback
Office (DEDO) in the National Board of Revenue (NBR); issued a Bangladesh Bank
(BB) circular and detailed operational guidelines to implement a generalized
inland letter of credit (L/C) system; improved access to export financing by
new and small exporters by increasing the working capital and the staff
strength of the Export Credit Guarantee Wing (ECGW) of the Sadharan Bima
Corporation (SBC); strengthened the Export Monitoring Unit (EMU) of the Export
Promotion Bureau (EPB) to ensure quota fulfillment of Bangladeshi exports
subject to external quota limitations. The legal and administ.ative changes
which GOB has made during FY88 should facilitate exporters' access to their
imported inputs on a free trade status, improve their acceib to export
financing, and help develop backward linkages for nontraditional manufactured
exports. Nevertheless, to ensure that the legal and administrative changes
are effectively implemented, substantial technical assistance is required to
the key institutions involved in export administration, which is envisioned as
an integral part of the proposed Project.
2.       The proposed Export Development Project (the Project) will be
introducing several actions which are innovative for Bangladesh. The key
officials responsible for implementing the export financing. export guarantee,
and duty drawback schemes could therefore, benefit substantially from exposure
to successful practices in other countries. In addition to consultancy
services, equipment and materials, the proposed Project therefore includes
overseas training for staff from BB, the commercial banks, ECGW, and DEDO. To
maximize the benefits of this training, each of the participants in overseas
training would be required to: (a) submit a study plan for IDA's approval;
(b) agree to serve in a relevant institution upon the trainee's return in
accordance with GOB's regulations on overseas training and carry out the
functions for which training was conducted; and (c) prepare a report of the
trainee's findings and recommendations to be furnished to the trainee's
supervisors, IDA and USAID.
3.       A package of technical assistance for each of the aforementioned
agencies which were discussed with the concerned agencies during appraisal,
and agreed during negotiations, are summarized in some detail below.  Each of
the concerned agencies framed its technical assistance requirements in the
form of a Technical Assistance Project Proforma (TAPP) which was approved by
the Special Project Evaluation Committee.
4.       In addition to the agreements reached regarding training (para. 2),
as a condition of Credit effectiveness, IDA would require formal donor
agreement to fund technical assistance.



-31-                            ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
5.       The technical assistance component will be provided to the four
agencies most involved in export administration, namely, BB, DEDO, ECGW, and
EPB. Technical assistance would comprise consultancy services (both short-
and long-term, domestic and foreign, and including management studies as well
as technical tasks), provision of equipment and facilities, seminars and
workshops, and overseas training. Total cost of the technical assistance has
been estimated at about US$1.2 million, which the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) has indicated its agreement in principle to
co-finance as a grant.
6.       Bangladesh Bank.  BB has been responsible for administering a number
of refinancing schemes for GOB, including the refinancing schemes for
nontraditional exports in local currency. Its Task Force on Export Financing
had found that the lack of preshipment financing in foreign exchange hae been
one of the major constraints in the development of nontraditional exports from
Bangladesh. BB had also identified the need to generalize the inland letter
of credit (LIC) system in Bangladesh, in order to extend the export incentives
(such as export financing and duty-free imports of inputs in export
production), which have been available to direct exporters, to indirect
exporters. BB issued a circular on the revised inland L/C system and detailed
operational guidelines for its implemen!ation in 1987 and 1988. It is also
seeking IDA assistance In establishing an Export Development Fund (EDF), which
would partly remedy the exporters' lack of foreign currency preshipment
financing, as a demonstration of GOB's commitment to promote and diversify
exports. Although BB staff and management are capable of implementing both
the proposed EDF and the inland LIC system, key BB staff and commercial bank
officials involved with the EDF and the inland LIC system would benefit
substantially from some overseas training to observe successful implementation
in other countries of both the EDF concept and the inland L/C system. It is
also essential that handbooks be prepared on the modernized export financing
system and seminars conducted on how both the EDF and the inland LIC system
can be used.
7.       Technical assistance would be provided to BB for: (a) preparation of
a manual on export procedures and financing, concentrating on how the inland
LIC system and the proposed EDF would be implemented to promote exports;
(b) expenditures for course materials, seminar facilities, honoraria, and
related costs that will be needed to conduct, over a two-year period, eight
seminars in Bangladesh's major urban centers. targeted to about 400 commercial
bankers, exporters, representatives from chambers of commerce and industry, to
disseminate information about the innovations in export financing; and
(c) travel costs for two senior BB officials and three senior commercial bank
officials to visit Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Jamaica, or other relevant
countries to be agreed with IDA and USAID to observe the implementation of
export financing schemes. These senior commercial and central oank officials
would review these countries' successful experiences, identify potential
pitfalls in operating 'Jxport financing schemes and make appropriate
recommendations to adopt successful practices in Bangladesh.
8.       Technical assistance to BB is estimated to cost about US$34,000
summarized as follows:



-32-                            ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
Cost Estimate
Item                                  Tk'000    US$OO0
1. Compilation and printing of handbook
on 'Export Procedurea and Export Financing'   174.0         -
2. Conducting eight seminars with about
400 participants                                120.0       -
3. Study trips for two senior BB officials,
two senior commercial bank officials.
and one Ministry of Finance official
to observe export financing schemes               -      24.7
294.0    24.7
9.       Duty Exemption-Drawback Office.  GOB has had in effect several duty
exemption drawback schemes: the notional payment (exemption) scheme; the flat
rate system, the individual rate system; the bonded warehouse scheme for
garment exporters; and the bonded warehouse scheme for 1002 exporters other
than garments. Except for the bonded warehouse scheme for garments, these
drawback schemes have not worked very well. Realizing that access to duty-
free imported inputs is a key incentive to exporters of manufactured goods,
GOB established DEDO in NBR to consolidate all the export incentives other
than financing. A large proportion of DEDO's initial task would be to
implement the two new statutory and regulatory orders which GOB has issued to
streamline the drawback schemes at individual and flat rates and to more
effectively and efficiently process the rebates. It will need to calculate
and issue input coetficieats for a large number of products that Bangladesh is
currently exporting or has the possibility of exporting in the near future.
Faced with such challenges, and with the fact that DEDO is starting out as a
new department, albeit with a core staff from the Duty Exemption Drawback Unit
within NBR. DEDO would require substantial consultancy services, computer
facilities, and staff training to become fully effective and efficient.
10.      Technical assistance would be provided tc DEDO for: (a) 36 staff
months of expatriate consultancy to assist DEDO calculate input coefficients
for products in specialized subsectors for which no local expertise is
available, to estimate the cost implications of taxes other than custom duties
and sales taxes and fees on Bangladeshi exports, and to coordinate and monitor
the Project's technical assistance component; (b) 36 staff months of local
consultancy to assist DEDO staff calculate input coefficients and train them
in the use of computers; (c) two micro.omputers, and computer software, to
help DEDO in its work and for to help it conduct seminars; (d) expenditures
for course materials, seminar facilities, honoraria, and related costs that
will be needed to conduct eight seminars over a two-year period to disseminate
information on the revised legal framework and mechanics of the duty drawback
systems among an estimated 400 commercial bankers, exporters, and relevant
officials from Customs, EPB and ECGW; and (e) travel costs for six DEDO
technical staff to work in one or two countries (from among Korea, Indonesia.
Malaysia, Sri Lanka or other countries to be agreed with IDA and USAID) for
three to four months each on a secondment basis to learn by actually
calculating input coefficients and administering of duty drawback systems, so



-33-                            ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
that upon their return they will make appropriate adaptations to Bangladesh
and train their compatriots. Of the 36 staff months of expatriate
consultancy, 12 staff months will be utilized for a Project Coordinator for
the project's entire technical assistancae component.
11.      The technical assistance to DEDO is estimated to cost about
US$708,500, as follows:
Cost Estimate
Item                                  Tk'000    US$'000
1.  Consultancy services
-  36 staff months (expatriate)                     -     432.0
-  36 staff months (local)                   1,080.0          -
2.  Computers, Software and transportation        2,243.0          -
3.  Seminars and Workshops for 400
participants over a two-year period             650.0
4.  Training                                            -      76.4
5.  Other, including contingency                  1,610.2      10.0
5.583.2     518.4
12.      Export Credit Guarantee Wing.  ECGW of the Sadharan Bima Corporation
(SBC) was established in 1978 to provide pre- and post-shipment export credit
guarantee to exporters. Until recently, ECGW has been limited in its
effectiveness due to small working capital base and staff. Through 1986, ECGW
insurance coverage represented 7? of total merchandise exports and 222 of
nontraditional exports. Recently, GOB has strengthened ECGW considerably by
making it into a separate department, and substantially increasing both its
workirg capital (from Tk 5.4 million in 1986 to Tk 133.3 million in 1987) and
its staff strength (from 18 in 1986 to 36 in 1987 and is authorized to grow to
87 in 1990). However, such strengthening has yet to overcome a reputation for
being ineffectual and for ECGW's guarantee simply being required by commercial
banks as additional collateral. This has hampered the access to export
financing by those without track records, typically new and small exporters.
ECGW is also beset with a number of other institutional issues.
13.      ECGW is losing substantial amounts of money because claims
substantially exceed fee income. These losses are borne by SBC, a publicly-
owned company with commercial objectives, and result in poorer overall SBC
financial performance. Consequently, SBC has disincentives to expand the
export credit insurance program, incur administrative and promotional expenses
to improve the program, and to service claims quickly.
14.      Despite relatively high fees, claims substantially exceed fees.  A
major reason is that insurance is not mandatory; therefore, ECGW only gets the
high risk business without the "blue chip" business necessary for it to spread



-34.                            ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
this risk over a reasonably high volume of business. Moreover, as commercial
banks are required to pay the insurance fees, it provides one additional
reason for banks to prefer financing "blue chip" customers. They avoid both
the cost and the administrative burden of arranging the insurance. Although
ECGW has paid claims for a number of years for which they, together with the
banks, obtained collateral, in return they have reportedly never received any
income from sale of such merchandise. In most, but not all, of these cases
responsibility for sale of the goods lies with the commercial banks. ECGW and
the commercial banks should be sharing sale proceeds on a 75:25 basis. It
would appear that: (i) no one is selling these goods and they are incurring
huge storage charges and/or goods are perishing or being lost; (ii) commercial
banks are pocketing the entire proceeds without sharing with ECGW (in which
case they may be receiving well over 1002 payment for claims that generate
transactions); or (iii) individuals are selling the goods for their own
benefit.
15.      In addition, ECGW spends virtually nothing on promotion, has no
promotional objectives, few btochures, poorly established policies and
procedures for enhancing the effectiveness of its promotional programs and
inadequate personnel for implementing a broader promotional program. They
have held some seminars with commercial banks for promotional purposes which
they view as effective. Also, ECGW has inadequate staff. These need
considerable training. ECGW's administrative procedures are also not
efficient. Problems with inefficiency are likely to escalate rapidly if the
level of transactions increases significantly over time.
16.      In order to promote the access of new and small exporters to export
financing, GOB would need to strengthen ECGW further, with a comp.ehensive
package of financial and technical assistance. To deal with ECGW's financial
problems, it is recommsended that IDA finance a study under the proposed EDP
requiring an expatriate for a period of two to three months to examine various
proposals for enhancing the viability of ECGW including: (i) whether export
credit guarantee insurance should be made mandatory; (ii) revising the fee
structure, either through raising fees or through a system of graduated fees
which involve higher fees for riskier and newer exporters, with lower fees for
more experienced exporters and/or those that export on multiple occasions
without submitting claims; (iii) increasinS ECGW authority to incur
expenditures (i.e., increasing the amount they can authorize) so long as they
fall within overall budgetary levels; (iv) proposing policies and procedures
for better monitoring of sale of collateral goods associated with paid claims
and collection of sale proceeds; and (v) other measures designed to reduce
ECGW losses or increase ECGW financial autonomy from SBC. The consultant
might also be asked to study other selected autonomy issues.
17.      ECGW should be encouraged to spend certain amounts on promotion over
the next three years to launch a *start-up' promotional campaign. SBC should
be required to pre-agree expenditure levels prior to the end of each fiscal
year beginning June 30, 1989. In addition, it is recommended that technical
assistance be arranged to hire a Bangladeshi firm or individuals to assist
ECGW in designing promotional materials and campaigns and, if requested, to
assist in the implementation of some of these programs. In addition, it is



-35-                            ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
important that more efficient procedures and a simple but effective monitoring
system be implemented at an early date with two or three powerful
microcomputers. Technical assistance should be provided, in the form of an
expatriate consultant for about one month and a Bangladeshi consultant for
about one year, to design and implement processing of insurarce and claim
procedures utilizing the computers, and to train staff in the use of both
computers and the processing systems. The processing system, which could
utilize templates for a commonly used spreadsheet (e.g., LOTUS) should
includes (a) a system for logging in all new insurance applications together
with key data such as inter alia exporter, name of bank branch, amount
insured, product insured, name of importer, date insurance issued, date
insurance will expire; (b) a system for monitoring outstanding insurance
including date fee paid and date of expiration, and date claim filed, if any.
Policies should be implemented for issuing warning letters if claims have not
been paid within seven days of insurance application and for formally
cancelling the insurance within, say, 15 days, if the fee has not been paid.
The system should be capable of listing outstanding insurance still in effect
sorted by, for example, branch, exporter, importer, product; (c) a system for
monitoring all outstanding claims including, inter alia, date claim received,
outstanding documentation not yet submitted, date claim paid, claims rejected,
and reasons for claim rejection. It should allow for producing letters of
cancellation upon expiration of one year deadline upon submission of full
documentation. Where claims are paid, data on goods seized as collateral
should be logged; (d) a system for analyzing claims experience which
classifies it by name of exporter, name of importer, reason for claim, and
bank branch involved. It should allow comparative claims experience by branch
to enhance ability to find fraudulent patterns. Claims experience by exporter
can be tabulated so that appropriate action can be taken (e.g., increased
future fees, refusal to provide insurance in future, investigation of fraud,
etc.) where exporters have had multiple claims. Claims experience by importer
should be tabulated and insurance refused for future shipments to an importer
for which a claim has been made due to importer non-payment; and (e) a system
which can be used (perhaps at a later stage) for ccmparing insurance business
written to total export business of each major bank/branch to assist in better
targeting for future export promotion activity and in measuring results from
such efforts. It would also help to monitor compliance if export credit
guarantee insurance is made mandatory.
18.      Technical assistance would be provided to ECGW for: (a) six staff
months of expatriate consultancy to design a Management Information System
(MIS) and a study on how ECGW can be provided greater operational autonomy
within SBC, in respect of promotion of its activities, personnel practices,
and claims procedures; (b) 12 staff months of local consultancy to implement
the MIS system and train ECGW staff in use of computers; (c) computers,
software, and office and communication equipment to assist ECGW staff in
establishing data files on their clients and management information systems
regarding claims; (d) reference materials with books, reports and magazines on
international trade laws, international finance, and research on political
risks and business failures; (e) ECGW's promotional activities, including
publication of manuals and brochures on its export credit guarantee schemes
and media advertisements regarding ECGW; (f) expenditures for course
materials, seminar facilities, honoraria, and other related costs to conduct
six training courses in Chittagong, Dhaka and Khulna to familiarize about 440



-36-                           ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
participants over a two-year period. including, exporters, commercial bankers
and customs officials, about its export credit guarantee scheme, and seven
one-day seminars in the same cities for about 700 participants; (g) travel
costs for eight technical ECGW staff to work for four to five weeks in the
export credit guarantee organizations in countries like India, Singapore, or
other countries to be agreed with IDA and USAID, to review how successful
export credit guarantee organizations are operated so that they could adapt
successful practices in Bangladesh.
19.      The technical assistance to ECGW is estimated to cost about
US$412,000 as follows:
Cost Estimates
Item                                   Tk'000    US$S000
1. Consultancy services
-  6 staff months                                   -      72.0
-  18 staff months                              540.0         -
2. Computer, Software and other Office
Equipment                                     1,823.0         -
3.  Library and Research Reports                        -      30.0
4. Seminars and Workshops and Promotional
Activities                                    3,091.0         -
5.  Overseas Training                                   -      32.3
6.  Other, including Contingency                  2,383.0      25.0
7,837.0     159.3
20.      Export Promotion Bureau.  Until December 1977, matters related to
export promotion were dealt with in an Export Promotion Unit (EPU) within the
Ministry of Commerce (MOC). In January 1978, the EPB, a semi-autonomous body,
was formed under MOC and entrusted with promotion of Bangladesh exports. In
1986, Bangladesh was hit with "quota shock' when its major market, the United
States, imposed quotas on Bangladesh's garment exports, catching many garment
exporters unawares. For the purpose of ensuring that adequate market
information is provided on a timely basis to exporters whose outputs are
subject to external quota limitations, GOB established an Export Monitoring
Unit (EHU) in the EPB. This unit would collate information from banks and
customs offices so that a close watch can be maintained over the exports of
manufactured goods on which there are external quotas. This way, GOB would be
able to quickly reallocate unfulfilled quotas to other manufacturers who are
able to manufacture and satisfy Bangladesh's export quotas.
21.      Although the EMU has been established within the EPB, and although
the computer necessary for tracking exports have already been procured using
EPB's own funds, there is a need for EPB to upgrade its communications and
office technology, a consultant to help it set up a monitoring system



-37-                           AN1EX 2
Page 8 of 8
(including the design of the necessary forms to be used by commercial banks
and customs offices tracking export orders), and training for its staff to use
computers.
22.      Technical assistance would be provided to the EPB for: (a) three
staff months of local consultancy to help its Export Monitoring Unit implement
an information system that can monitor quota utilization for Bangladeshi
exports subject to quota limitations; and (b) office and communication
equipment to enable EMU to carry out its monitoring operations more
effectively and efficiently.
23.      The technical assistance to EPB is estimated to cost about US$60,000,
as follows:
Estimated Cost
Local              Foreign
(Tk '000)           (US$ '000)
Consultants                                      90.0                   -
Equipment                                     1,562.0                 7.0
Total                                      1,662.0                 7.0
Swmmary
24.      In summary, technical assistance to BB, DEDO, ECGW, and EPB have been
estimated at US$1.2 million, as follows:
Items and Agencies                     Estimated Cost         Total
Local    Foreian      (USS '000) /a
(Tk'000)  (US$0000)    Equivalent
1.  Consultancy Services                  1,710.0        504.0     559.2
2.  Promotional Material and Seminars    4,035.0          17.0     146.9
3.  Machinery and Equipment               5,628.0         30.0     211.5
4.  Training                                  -         133.4      133.4
5.  Other                                 3,993.2         25.0     153.8
15,366.2       709.4   1,204.8
1.  Bangladesh Bank                         294.0        24.7       33.9
2.  Duty Exemption Drawback Office        5,583.2        518.4     698.5
3.  Export Credit Guarantee Wing          7,837.0        159.3     412.1
4.  Export Promotion Bureau               1.652.0          7.0      60.3
15,366.2       709.4   1,204.8
/a All the TAPPs used an exchange rate of US$l - Tk3l.0 except for
Bangladesh Bank, which used an exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 32.0



ANNEX 3
-38-
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated       Cumulative
Bank FY    Quarter Ending      Disbursements    Disbursements      Cumulative
(USS '000)       (US$ '000)            X
FY90     September 30, 1989        1,125              1,125              4
December 31, 1989         1,125             2,250               9
March 31, 1990            1,125             3,375              14
June 30, 1990            1,125              4.500              18
FY91     September 30, 1990        1,875              6,375             26
December 31, 1990         1,875             8,250              33
March 31, 1991            1,875            10,125              40
June 30, 1991            1,875             12,000              48
FY92     September 30, 1991        2,250            14,250              57
December 31, 1991         2,250            16,500              66
March 31, 1992            2,250            18,750              75
June 30, 1992            2,250             21,000              84
FY93     September 30, 1992        2,000            23,000              92
December 31, 1992        2,000             25,000             100



ANNEX 4
-39-
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project Files
1.    Export Development Fund -- Operating Policies and Summary Procedures
2.    Bangladesh -- Export Policy and Administration
Prepared by Mr. Yung Whee Rhee (IENIN), February 1986
3.    Bangladesh -- Report on Export Finance System
Prepared by First Washington Associates, April 1987
4.    President's Report on the Industrial Sector Credit
(Report No. P-4558-BD), May 18, 1987
5.    Notice to the Board of Second Tranche Release of Industrial Sector
Credit (No. 1816-BD), IDA/SecM88-209, June 28, 1988
6.    Technical Assistance Project Proforma for Bangladesh Bank
7.    Technical Assistance Project Proforma for the Duty Exemption and
Duty Exemption and Drawback Office of the National Board Revenue
8.    Technical Assistance Project Proforma for the Export Credit Guarantee
Wing of the Sadharan Bima
9.    Technical Assistance Project Proforma for the Export Monitoring Unit
of the Export Promotion Bureau



MAP SECTION



'>t><, -0 lNDIABANGLADESH
>> A %Sa es o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Upozillo Headquarters                             Upazillo Boundaries
/5 IJ / <,,_ \Xk * D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vlla Headqucirters                            Zilba Boundaries
26° ,,,i Z ,4e 1. ' 8    ni laSC   u<' N>9S~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Division Headquarters       --Division Boundaries            .
r«  jj  91 <8       t;R        x3          %    X K                   Notional Capital         --lnterncotianl Bounrirzries
25' p,t            et< ftt 
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            1,41R 
t?   ;''j'S  '_\~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N DI 
\   /   Bay   to                                                                                _s  t            v~~~~~~~~D  
I         C  S    N AI  -
IN DIA9                                                                                                                     l] 



