Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15082
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2000-BD)
OCTOBER 24, 1995
Private Sector Development & Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIYALENTS
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
Appraisal Year (03/88):    SDR 1 = US$1.3717
US$ 1 = Tk.31.47
Tk. 1 = US$0.0318
Completion Year (06/94):    SDR 1 = US$1.4285
US$ 1 = Tk.40.15
Tk. 1 = US$0.0249
FISCAL YEARS
Government                             July 1 - June 30
Banking Sector                   January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB           -      Bangladesh Bank
DEDO         -      Duty Exemption and Drawback Office
ECG          -      Export Credit Guarantee
ECGD         -      Export Credit Guarantee Department
EDF          -      Export Development Fund
EPB          -      Export Promotion Bureau
ERD          -      Economic Relations Division
FY           -      Fiscal Year
FSAC         -      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -      Gross National Product
GOB          -      Government of Bangladesh
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -      International Development Association
ISC          -      Industrial Sector Credit
L/C          -      Letter of Credit
LIBOR        -      London Inter Bank Offer Rate
MIS          -      Management Infonration System
MOC          -      Ministry of Commerce
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
NCB          -      Nationalized Commercial Bank
SBC          -      Sadharan Bima Corporation
SBW          -      Special Bonded Warehouse
TA           -      Technical Assistance
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FEXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2000-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                              Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary  ................................................................                                                                                           i
PART I: PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........                                                                                      ....................               1
1.    Project Identity    ..........................................................                                                                           1
2.    Project Background   .........................                                          .................................                                 1
3.    Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives   .                                 ...................................................                              2
4.    Achievement of Objectives  ..........................................................                                                                    3
5.    Major Factors  Affecting  the  Project .                                ...................................................                              5
6.    Project Sustainability   ..............................                                         ............................                             6
7.    IDA   Performance   ......................                                        ....................................                                   7
8. Borrower Performance . ..........................................................                                                                           8
9. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................                                                                           9
10.   Future  Operation    ......................                                       ....................................                                 10
11.   Key  Lessons  Learned   ................................1..........................                                                                    1
PART  II: STATISTICAL  ANNEXES  .............................................................                                                                               12
1.    Summary  of Assessments  .......................................................                                                       ...             12
2.    Related  IDA   Credits  ...........................                                        ...............................                              14
3.    Project Timetable   ......................                                        ....................................                                 15
4.    Credit Disbursements   .................................                                             .........................                          16
5.    Project Costs  and  Financing    ..........................................................                                                            16
6.    Status  of Legal Covenants  ..........................................................                                                                 17
7.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................................                                                                  18
8.    Bank  Resources:  Missions   ..........................................................                                                                19
9.    EDF   Disbursements   ...........................                                          ...............................                             20
10. Itemized Utilization of EDF ..........................................................                                                                  20
11.   Bank-wide  Utilization  of EDF  ..........................................................                                                             21
12. Bangladesh's Exports ..........................................................                                                                         22
APPENDIXES
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR .......................................................                                                                  23
B.  USAID  Comments ......................                                              ....................................                                 33
*is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RANG~LADESH
E~~WEMEN-TIfRMINPOECT
BL~B
(Credit 2M&WBD
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Export Development
Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 2000-BD in the amount of US$25 million (SDR 19.4
million) equivalent was approved on April 11, 1989, and made effective on October 25, 1989.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1993. Final disbursement took place on 1994, at which time a balance of SDR 51,351.45
was canceled due to an unexpected strengthening of the SDR after the last disbursement request was
received. Cofinancing for the project was provided by U. S. Agency for International Development
(USAID) through a grant of US$19.4 million for technical assistance.
'Te ICR was jointly prepared by Shamsuddin Ahmad, SA1BG, and Alfredo
Dammert, SAIPF. It was reviewed by Fred Kilby, Chief, PSD and Finance Division, Owaise
Saadat, Chief, PSD & Finance Unit, SAIBG, and Abid Hasan, SA1PF all of the Country Department
I of South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower and USAID provided commnents that are included as
appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's completion mission in
September 1994. It is based on material in the project file, discussions with the Government of
Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Bank and USAID officials, and impact evaluation carried out by RMB
staff. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution and initial preparation.



EXPORT DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2000-BD)
BANGLADESH
EVALUATIONSARY
Introducetion
i.          The Export Development Project was an important link in the sequence of Bank
Group industrial sector operations and provided a vehicle for continuing and complementing IDA's
involvement with the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in export development under the Seventh and
Eighth Import Program Credits (Cr. 866-BD and Cr. 980-BD) and the Industrial Sector Credit
(Cr. 1816-BD) (para 7.1).
Pro.ject Objectives
ii.         The overall objectives of the Project were to assist GOB's efforts to promote exports
by: (a) providing a line of pre-shipment foreign exchange credit to private sector exporters,
particularly to new nontraditional exporters; (b) strengthening the export financing and guarantee
elements of the credit delivery system; and (c) addressing policy and procedural issues which
constrain the active development of Bangladesh's export potential. The Project responded to the
Government's request to support its ongoing policy and institutional reforms in the trade, industrial
and financial sectors. The objectives were clear, realistic and important for the development of
Bangladesh (para 3.1).
iii.        The Project consisted of a line of credit component of US$25 million equivalent
financed by IDA to augment GOB's contribution of US$5 million in an Export Development Fund
(EDF) managed by the Bangladesh Bank (BB) for refinancing the imported inputs of exporters, and a
technical assistance component of around US$1.2 million equivalent financed by a grant from the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to strengthen BB, the Duty Exemption and
Drawback Office (DEDO), the Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD) of Sadharan Bima
Corporation (SBC), and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), the key institutions engaged in export
finance and administration (para 3.2).
Implementation Expeand Results
iv.          Overall, the project achieved its objectives substantially. The objective of providing
preshipment foreign currency credit to private non-traditional exporters was substantially
realized by the setting up of a revolving EDF at BB with US$3 million contributed by GOB and into
which the entire Credit proceeds of this Project were added. The cumulative utilization of around
US$75 million from the EDF by the non-traditional exporters financed more than US$150 million of
non-traditional exports during the period January 1991 to June 1995. The objective of strengthening
the export rinancing and guarantee elements of the credit delivery system was achieved partially
as the export credit guarantee system is still not working efficiently. However, the export financing



- 11 -
system has been strengthened by the setting up of the EDF which provides exporters with the only
local source of foreign currency preshipment financing at internationally competitive rates. The
objective of addressing policy and procedural issues which constrain the active development of
Bangladesh's export potential has also been achieved substantially although such reforms, being a
continuous process, need to be expanded and deepened. The policy of forcing the special bonded
warehouse (SBW) exporters to use suppliers' credit to finance their imported inputs raises the cost of
imports and puts the Bangladeshi exporters at a financial disadvantage vis-a-vis their foreign
competitors. Financing from the EDF provided the exporters with import finance in foreign
exchange at an international market rate of LJBOR+ 1% thereby putting these exporters on an equal
footing with their foreign competitors in so far as the financing cost of imports is concerned.
Procedural improvements in the duty drawback scheme have also been achieved so that exporters now
can expect to get their drawback checks within a week for flat rates and within a month for actual
rates. ECGD has streamlined its claim procedures so that claims are processed more regularly than
before (paras. 4.2 to 4.5).
v.           The design of the Project was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives,
although with hindsight two major flaws may be identified. The first relates to the issue of pricing of
the subloans. Although the fixed spread of 2.5% or 3.5% (for the first subloan to a new exporter)
available to the banks for using EDF appeared to be attractive at the design stage because of the BB-
administered interest rate regime prevailing at that time, it turned out to be quite insufficient for the
banks later on when interest rates were liberalized under the financial sector reform program
supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC). Due to high levels of non-performing
assets at all banks, margins charged for all operations were quite high in the order of 6-7%; thus,
margins allowed under EDF appeared unattractive to banks. This problem could have been avoided
by fixing the EDF-rates to the banks (and not to the exporters) and allowing banks the freedom to
determine their own spreads. Another design flaw relates to policy reform in that the Project did not
call for mainstreaming export financing in foreign currency by allowing commercial banks to obtain
foreign currency from the comfortable foreign exchange reserves held at BB. As a result, EDF
financing is still available to only a limited number of exporters while a majority of the exporters are
still suffering from the disadvantages of having to accept suppliers' credit (paras. 4.6 and 4.7).
vi.          A host of factors, both subject to and not subject to government control, affected
achievement of major objectives. For instance, the delay in initiating the USAID-funded technical
assistance component was mainly due to the lengthy procedures that USAID had to follow to hire a
General Contractor to inplement the technical assistance (TA) program.  This delay affected
adversely the dissemination activities, such as workshops and seminars for exporters and their banks,
and slowed down the pace of project implementation and utilization of the Credit funds.
Implementation was also adversely affected by the long time that GOB/BB took to accept and
implement the IDA recommendations to remove the factors that were impeding proper project
implementation (paras. 5.7 and 5.8).
vii.         Given that the probability of maintaining and even surpassing the achievements of the
Project objectives is quite high, it is quite likely that the Project will be sustained in the near future.
Moreover, after the Credit closed on June 30, 1994, the EDF Advisory Committee decided, with the
concurrence of IDA, to continue with the operations of the EDF in accordance with the Lending



- lHi -
Policy and Operating Procedures in effect at that time, thus confirming strong borrower commitment
to the objectives of the Project. Accordingly, the operations of EDF continue till date with utilization
showing an increasing trend (paras. 6.1 and 6.2).
viii.        While the performance of IDA in the preparation and implementation of this project
was generally satisfactory, with hindsight it now appears that the design of the Project could have
been given more attention. Some of the weaknesses in the design which were corrected during
project implementation were that: the subloan size and outstanding turned out to be too small for the
exporters and they were required to obtain export credit guarantee even if the banks did not request
for it, and the credit was made available only against letters of credit received by the exporter.
Although GOB did not realize the need to amend some of the subloan terms and conditions initially,
they agreed to the changes after constructive dialogue with the Resident Mission and implemented the
corrective actions, albeit with some delay (paras. 7.2 and 7.3).
ix.          The substantial achievement of Project objectives as described earlier combined with
the likelihood of sustaining the achievements indicate that the outcome of the Project is highly
satisfactory. The use of EDF is increasing sharply and as of June 30, 1995, about 135 exporters have
used it to finance more than 2,000 L/Cs, through thirteen banks for an approximate amount of US$80
million to export goods worth more than US$200 million. The repayment experience under EDF has
been highly satisfactory since almost the full amount of the subloans have been repaid except for a
small sum of US$80,655.69 which could not be recovered from the export proceeds. The outcome of
the TA component was mixed since the TA did not always produce the desired results even though
implementation was complete (paras. 9.1 to 9.3).
Summary of Findings. Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.           The key finding of the project implementation experience is that credit lines like the
one under this Project should be guided by market conditions and should have sufficient flexibility to
change and adapt to the changes in the market.
xi.          Although this Project appears to be sustainable at the moment, the benefits are
available to only a small segment of the potential beneficiaries in the export sector. The benefits
could be opened up to all exporters if GOB lifted all the existing restrictions on foreign currency
preshipment financing, allowed banks to fully determine the interest rates on export financing under
EDF, and eliminated minimum value added requirements.
xii.         The implementation experience under this Project has provided some important
lessons about design and implementation. These lessons may be grouped into three categories:
(a) design issues; (b) coordination issues; and (c) quality issues, as discussed below:
(a)    Project Desigrn Issues. The experience under this Project has shown that proper
incentives built in to the Project design are important for successful implementation.
The major incentive for the exporters to use EDF was the interest rate. When the
EDF rate was above the local currency rate, exporters preferred the local currency
loans and vice versa. Moreover, the mandatory export credit guarantee discouraged



- Iv -
the more qualified exporters from using EDF because of the additional premium.
Although GOB agreed to make the guarantee optional later on, it did not agree to
increase the EDF rate structure. The incentive for the banks was the spread offered
under EDF which was fixed at 2.5% for most subloans. This fixed spread
discouraged banks from actively promoting EDF to its clients since it could charge its
own spread for other loans because of the financial sector liberalization that occurred
after effectiveness of this Credit. GOB did not agree to free the spread to the banks
under EDF. Allowing these incentives to be determined by the market rather than
being predetermined in the credit design would substantially improve the quality of a
project at entry. Moreover, additional requirements, such as export credit guarantees
should also be kept optional. BB's role in administering the credit line should also be
kept at a minimum with participating banks given the responsibility to maintain the
required documentation for using the facility (para 4.7). In order to provide training
assistance for a particular institution, adequate personnel policies should be in place at
such institution to ensure permanence of trained staff (para 9.3).
(b)    Project Coordination Issues. Good project coordination ensures that all participants
proceed according to the project's timetable, are informed promptly of actions taken
by other parties so that they may act accordingly, and participate in the design and
implementation of corrective measures on a timely manner. The implementation of
this Project suffered from the lack of a clear cut institutional authority within GOB for
project implementation as a whole, thereby leading to delays in taking appropriate
corrective measures. However, this problem was partially overcome by the constant
dialogue carried out by the Resident Mission and by the positive response of the
various Government entities in taking corrective actions (para 8.1).
(c)    Ensuring Quaity at Entry. The Project was successful because it supported GOB's
on-going trade reforms and export promotion strategy. This ensured strong GOB
participation and commitment which allowed effective implementation of some
components and the taking of corrective actions on other components when problems
of project implementation arose. Thus, the need for a pre-export line of credit was
established by a BB task force created as a result of the Goverrnent's concern for the
sector. Similarly, GOB was able to respond appropriately, although with delays, to
IDA's advice on project modifications and other measures to ensure achievement of
project objectives (para 7.2).



BANGLADESH
EXPOT DVLQPMFNT PROJIECT
(Credit 2000-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPIFMFNTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Project Identity
Name              Export Development Project
Credit No.        Cr. 2000-BD
RVP Unit         : South Asia Region
Country           Bangladesh
Sector           : Industry (Export)
2. Proiect Background
2.1          The manufacturing sector in Bangladesh is characterized by its low level of growth
and development: its share of GDP averaged 12% during FY73-80 and declined to 10% during the
1980s. Although a 7.8% p.a. growth rate registered by this sector during FY73-80 suggested that its
importance within the economy was on the increase, the subsequent less than 3.0% p.a. growth
during the 1980s did away with these expectations. However, there were some promising structural
changes, since during the latter period, nontraditional export industries -- mainly ready-made
garments (RMG), frozen fish and shrimp, leather products and natural gas based fertilizers -- created
the basis for a new path of industrial development, registering an average growth rate of 11 % p.a.
between FY82-83 and FY89-90, in contrast with the traditional manufacturing sector dominated by
jute industries, textiles and light consumer goods, which stagnated.
2.2          To improve the performance of the manufacturing sector, and particularly that of
export oriented industries, the Government implemented during the 1980s: (a) a series of deregulation
measure such as liberalizing import policies, rationalizing tariffs, widening the use of secondary
exchange markets by producers, and eliminating investment licensing requirements for most
industries; and (b) a program of incentives including establishing a flexible exchange rate policy,
allowing duty free imports for exporters through the special bonded warehouse (SBW) scheme and
duty drawback scheme, establishing an export processing zone, promoting the establishment of an
export credit guarantee scheme, and facilitating the establishment of an inland back-to-back letter of
credit system, in order to link direct exporters' financing with that for indirect exporters. However,
by the end of that decade, there were still problems with implementation of these policies due mainly
to institutional limitations, which coupled with lack of access to credit, particularly by new and
indirect exporters, did not allow manufacturers to benefit fully from the Government's trade reforms.
2.3          A key element of Bangladesh's development strategy was to promote rapid export-led
growth to generate foreign exchange and provide employment for a large, rapidly growing labor
force. While the manufacturing sector performance has been uneven in the 1980s, a bright spot in the
economy has been the strong performance of non-traditional exports, specially readymade garments



- 2 -
and frozen foods. However, rapid growth of exports was constrained to some extent by the limited
export financing available through banks and the absence of foreign currency financing from domestic
sources. RMG and other 100% exporters using the SBW facility, therefore, had to rely exclusively
on suppliers' credit through the back-to-back L/C mechanism. An export development fund was,
therefore, considered a useful mechanism to supplement the existing sources of financing by making
working capital loans available in foreign currency at competitive international interest rates and to
improve access to credit by new exporters of non-traditional goods just entering the market.
3. Statement/Evaluation of Objectiv
3.1         Project bjectives. The overall objectives of the Project were to assist GOB's efforts
to promote exports by: (a) providing a line of pre-shipment foreign exchange credit to private sector
exporters, particularly to new nontraditional exporters; (b) strengthening the export financing and
guarantee elements of the credit delivery system; and (c) addressing policy and procedural issues
which constrain the active development of Bangladesh's export potential. The Project responded to
the Government's request to support its ongoing policy and institutional reforms in the trade,
industrial and financial sectors.
3.2         Institutional Arrangements. The Project consisted of a line of credit component of
US$25 million equivalent financed by IDA to augment GOB's contribution of US$5 million in an
Export Development Fund (EDF) managed by BB for refinancing the imported inputs of exporters,
and a technical assistance component of around US$1.2 million equivalent financed by a grant from
the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to strengthen BB, DEDO, ECGD and EPB,
the key institutions engaged in export finance and administration.
3.3          The Project objectives were clear, realistic and important for Bangladesh, and when
the new democratic Government took office in 1991 they immediately put special emphasis on its
implementation. The objectives fit well with GOB's policy of pursuing a market-oriented economy
with special emphasis on exports. It was also consistent with the key objectives of the lending
assistance strategy of the 80s, which was to enhance the export orientation of the manufacturing
sector and to enhance the role of the private domestic and foreign sector. The Project was neither
complex nor very risky and also not particularly demanding for GOB or for BB which managed the
EDF. The institutional strengthening part under the TA component, however, turned out to be more
difficult to accomplish than was envisaged.
3.4          The technical assistance component, which was located in the Duty Exemption and
Drawback Office (DEDO), consisted of consultancy services, computers and other equipment,
overseas training, promotional seminars and workshops, and financing of reference and research
materials.  It was principally aimed at providing the necessary assistance for the proper
implementation of the Project by strengthening the institutional capabilities related to export financing
and administration in the following entities: (a) BE - to prepare manuals on export procedures and
financing, including the EDF, expand the use of inland L/C system, provide seminars, and travel to
learn about similar programs in ASEAN countries; (b) DEDO - to calculate input coefficients,
estimate tax effects on exports, and train personnel in the administration and processing of duty
drawback schemes; (c) E(Ci- - to design and implement a management information system, conduct
a study to revise ECGD's fee structure and provide guidelines to increase its autonomy, assist in



- 3 -
promotional activities, and train personnel to strengthen the scheme; and (d) EP  - to implement an
information system to monitor quota utilization for exports subject to quota limitations, through the
computerization of the quota monitoring system.
4. Acievement of Objectives
4.1          Overall, the project achieved its objectives substantially. A summary of assessments
of the degree of achievement of various objectives is provided in Part II, Table 1 of this ICR. Some
of the major factors underlying the assessments and the implementation experience are discussed
below.
4.2          The objective of providing preshipment credit to private sector exporters,
particularly to new nontraditional exporters, has been achieved substantially. With foreign exchange
reserves dropping alarmingly in FY89, reaching a low level of US$585 million (less than two months
import requirement) at the end of June 1989, Bangladeshi exporters were finding it difficult to obtain
domestic preshipment financing for their imported inputs due to the shortage of foreign exchange.
Exporters were, therefore, forced to seek offshore financing for their imported inputs, such as
suppliers credit, or risk losing the export order. The objective, of providing preshipment foreign
currency credit to non-traditional exporters through the establishment of a separate funding source for
financing their import requirements, was substantially realized by the setting up of a revolving EDF
at BB into which the entire Credit proceeds of this Project were added. The cumulative utilization of
around US$75 million from the EDF by the non-traditional exporters resulted in a direct contribution
of more than US$150 million to the growth of non-traditional exports during the period January 1991
to June 1995. The Project financed exports for a total of about US$70 million during FY95 alone,
which is more than three times the amount of the Credit. Moreover, the EDF financed exports of
such new non-traditional items as footwear, ceramic and porcelain wares, besides readymade
garments, hosiery and knitwears. The EDF also provided finance to new indirect exporters such as a
button manufacturer and a packaging manufacturer, thereby promoting backward linkage and
increasing total value added.
4.3          During the Project period about 80 exporters utilized the EDF of which 74 were
ready-made garment and knitwear exporters, two were ceramic ware exporters, and three indirect
exporters (one button manufacturer and two packaging materials manufacturer) and one footwear
exporter. At the end of the Project, the RMG exporters used 90% of the Credit funds while the other
non-traditional exporters used the remaining 10%. These exporters received EDF through ten
commercial banks, including two nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) (out of four), a foreign bank
(out of eight), and seven private domestic banks (out of eleven).
4.4          The objective of strengthening the export rlancing and guarantee elements of the
credit delivery system was achieved partially as the export credit guarantee system is still not
working efficiently. However, the export financing system has been strengthened by the setting up of
the EDF. Prior to EDF, exporters enjoying duty-free import facility under the SBW scheme were
restricted from getting preshipment financing in foreign exchange from domestic banks due to a BB
Circular letter issued in 1982 to that effect. That misguided policy forced exporters to seek and
accept foreign suppliers' credit at a higher cost. The EDF provided exporters with the only local
source of foreign currency preshipment financing at internationally competitive rates. The export



- 4 -
credit guarantee scheme could not be strengthened since GOB and USAID could not resolve the basic
questions about the ownership, organization structure and management of ECGD.
4.5           The objective of addressing policy and procedural issues which constrain the
active development of Bangladesh's export potential -- access to export financing in foreign
currency at international market rates, improved access to duty-free imports through the duty
drawback scheme, and adequacy of the export credit guarantee system -- has also been achieved
substantially although such reforms, being a continuous process, need to be expanded and deepened.
The policy of forcing SBW exporters to use suppliers' credit to finance their imported inputs raises
the cost of imports and puts the Bangladeshi exporters at a financial disadvantage vis-a-vis their
foreign competitors. The higher cost of such imports results from the higher interest rates charged by
foreign suppliers and the higher bank charges for handling suppliers' credit compared to those for
direct bank financing of those imports. A rough estimate made by an IDA expert on export
financing' shows that Bangladeshi exporters paid, on average, at least 8% p.a. more for suppliers'
credit than what they would pay for domestic bank financing; although if interest rates from the EDP
were deregulated this difference would be reduced. Financing from the EDF provided the exporters
with import finance in foreign exchange at an international market rate of LIBOR +1 % thereby
putting these exporters on an equal footing with their foreign competitors in so far as the financing
cost of imports is concerned. Unfortunately, however, the EDF facility could only be enjoyed by less
than one hundred and fifty non-traditional exporters, due to the limited size of the EDF, and has not
been made generally available to all exporters even today. Procedural improvements in the duty
drawback scheme have also been achieved so that exporters now can expect to get their drawback
checks within seven days for flat rates and within a month for actual rates. Although ECGD has
streamlined its claim procedures, it still takes considerable time to process claims.
4.6          The design of the Project was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives.
Restricting the use of EDF to non-traditional exporters helped to diversify the export base while
limiting the maximum size and outstanding balances of subloans to an individual exporter ensured
that the entire EDF would not be used up by only a handful of large exporters. When the size and
outstanding limits appeared to be too small the Credit was amended to double those limits, as a result
of which utilization increased significantly. With hindsight, however, two major flaws in the design
may be identified. The first relates to pricing of the subloans. Although the fixed spread of 2.5% or
3.5% (for the first subloan to a new exporter) available to the banks for using EDF appeared to be
attractive at the design stage because of the BB-administered interest rate regime prevailing at that
time, it turned out to be quite insufficient for the banks later on when interest rates were liberalized
under the financial sector reform program supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC). Due to high levels of non-performing assets at all banks, margins charged for all operations
were quite high in the order of 6-7%; thus, margins allowed under EDF appeared unattractive to
banks. This problem could have been avoided by fixing the EDF-rates to the banks (and not to the
exporters) and allowing the freedom to banks to determine their own spreads.
I Yung Whee Rhee, Principal Economnist, PSD, calculated the extra cost of suppliers' credit for
Bangladeshi exporters in his BTOR dated March 7, 1995, for the proposed Second Export Development Project.



- 5 -
4.7          The other design flaw relates to the policy reform objective in that the Project did not
call for mainstreaming export financing in foreign exchange by allowing commercial banks to obtain
foreign currency from the currently comfortable foreign exchange reserves of the country. As a
result, EDF financing is still available to only a limited number of exporters while a majority of the
exporters are still suffering from the disadvantages of having to accept suppliers' credit.
5. MaJor Factors Affecting the Project
5.1          The Credit became effective on October 25, 1989, six months after signing. The
delay was mainly due to the time taken by GOB to set up the Export Development Fund (EDF) with
its initial contribution of US$3 million, out of its US$5 million share, and to sign the Technical
Assistance Agreement with USAID. Although the first disbursement of US$3 million to a Special
Account was made on December 18, 1989, the first subloan under EDF was made only in August
1990, full ten months after the Credit became effective and eight months after the Special Account
was set up. The highlights of the implementation of the line of credit component is discussed below.
5.2          The utilization of EDF picked up slowly (Table 9) from an annual aggregate of about
US$120,000 during FY91 to more than an annual aggregate of US$16 million in FY94. Aggregate
EDF loans during FY95 jumped to more than US$40 million. The average annual outstanding also
jumped from US$30,000 in FY91 to more than US$5 million in FY94. The increase in utilization of
EDF continued to rise even after the Credit was closed so that the average outstanding during FY95
jumped to more than US$15 million.
5.3          Four reasons could be identified for the low level of EDF utilization during the first
three years of the Project. These are: (a) higher interest rate charged under EDF compared to that for
local currency financing. During FY90 and FY91 the EDF rate (which was LIBOR+ 1%) was
around 9.6% whereas the local currency rate was 9%. Exporters preferred to borrow in Taka at 9%
and buy spot US Dollars to finance their imported inputs. As LIBOR started to fall the EDF rate
(going down to 4.25%) became more attractive as the Taka rate remained the same and exporters
preferred to use EDF; (b) recent expansion and maturity of RMG exporters compared to their status
at effectiveness. At effectiveness, most of the RMG exporters were involved in cutting and making
operations where the raw materials were supplied by the buyers under suppliers' credit and the RMG
exporter did not require EDF financing. As the RMG exporters gathered experience and began to
expand they started to shop for the raw materials themselves and offered cash terms for better prices
and hence demanded EDF financing to pay the suppliers at sight rather than usance; (c) higher cost of
EDF because of mandatory use of export credit guarantee (ECG). The initial mandatory requirement
of ECG under EDF discouraged good exporters from using EDF due to the additional premium costs.
As ECG became optional from 1993 more exporters preferred EDF as their banks did not demand
ECG; and (d) lack of awareness about EDF amongst the exporters. The delay in the implementation
of the TA component delayed the dissemination activities planned under the Project. As the seminars
and workshops began to be held under the TA more exporters became aware of EDF and demanded it
from their banks.
5.4          Except for a few banks that promoted the use of EDF to its export clients (because of
its large base of RMG exporters whose financing needs could not be satisfied from its own resources)
most of the banks did not actively promote the use of EDF because: (a) the fixed spread of 2.5%



-6-
(3.5% for the first subloan to a new exporter) became unattractive with the liberalization of interest
rates; (b) BB took a long ime (even up to 30 days) to refinance the subloans; and (c) the documentary
evidence required by BB for refinancing was considered excessive.
5.5          The major factors that affected the implementation pace and content of the Project are
given below.
5.6          Factors not generally subject to government control. The delay in initiating the
USAID-funded technical assistance component was mainly due to the lengthy procedures that USAID
had to follow to hire a General Contractor to implement the TA program. Thus, although the Credit
became effective in October 1989, the General Contractor could only be mobilized in April 1991, a
full eighteen months after effectiveness. The delay in initiating the implementation of the TA
severely delayed the dissemination activities, such as workshops and seminars for exporters and their
banks, planned under the TA. Most of the exporters, therefore, came to know of EDF almost two
years after it was set up.  The dissemination activities which were critical for the effective
implementation of the Project and should have started prior to effectiveness actually began almost two
years after the Credit became effective thereby producing an adverse effect on project implementation
and on the utilization of the Credit funds.
5.7          Factors generally subject to GOB and/or RB control. The slow pace of utilization of
the Credit during the first two years of the Project was partially attributable to factors generally
within GOB and/or BB control. The second IDA supervision mission in September 1990, identified
several factors that were impeding project implementation and recommended that: (a) the spread to
the banks for utilizing the EDF be increased from 2.5% to 4% so that they were encouraged to
participate actively in the project; (b) the back-to-back letter of credit requirement for EDF financing
be relaxed so that more exporters could use EDF for financing larger raw material inventories;
(c) the fixed value addition requirement of 30% be lowered to 20% so that more exporters could avail
of the EDF; and (d) BB together with EPB carry out a dissemination campaign to promote the use of
EDF.   None of the recommendations were accepted by GOB/BB  at that time although
recommendations (b), (c) and (d) were finally implemented almost three years later in 1993, thereby
slowing down the initial utilization.
6.   t   Suect inabilit
6.1          Sustainabiity of the Project would imply that: (a) the number of non-traditional
exporters and export volumes continue to increase; (b) the preshipment credit offered to exporters
under EDF continue to be available and possibly become a normal export financing instrument of
commercial banks; and (c) institutional development objectives under the technical assistance
component, in particular improvements in the duty drawback scheme, the SBW scheme, the export
credit guarantee scheme and the information system on quota utilization, be maintained. Given that
the probability of maintaining and even surpassing the achievements of the above objectives is quite
high as described below, it is quite likely that the Project will be sustained in the near future.
6.2          After the Credit closed on June 30, 1994, the EDF Advisory Committee decided,
with the concurrence of IDA, to continue with the operations of the EDF in accordance with the
Lending Policy and Operating Procedures in effect at that time, thus confirming strong borrower



- 7 -
commitment to the objectives of the Project. Accordingly, the operations of EDF continue till date
with utilization showing an increasing trend. In the twelve months since the Credit closed, the
achievements of EDF are as follows: (a) the number of non-traditional exporters using EDF jumped
from 80 to 135, while the average annual outstanding of EDF subloans increased from around US$5
million to more than US$15 million; (b) two more commercial banks began using EDF thus
increasing the number of utilizing banks from 10 to 12 and the total annual disbursement from around
US$16 million to around US$43 million. However, the local availability of export fmancing in
foreign currency continues to be restricted to funds under EDF, due to the BB Circular letter
prohibiting commercial banks from opening back-to-back sight L/Cs for imports of SBW exporters
except under EDF; and (c) the improvements in the duty drawback schemes and the SBW schemes
are being strengthened with the formulation of plans for more streamlined procedures. The export
credit guarantee scheme was, however, not operating efficiently at the time of completion of this
ICR; it would require extensive additional effort on the part of the Government and possible
assistance from IDA or other institutions to establish an appropriate and effective scheme. In spite of
this drawback, considering the other achievements, it may be concluded that the probability of
sustaining the project is very high.
7. IDA Perfonnance
7.1         Identification. This Project was an important link in the sequence of Bank Group
industrial sector operations and provided a vehicle for continuing and complementing IDA's
involvement with GOB in export development under the Seventh and Eighth Import Program Credits
(Cr. 866-BD and Cr. 980-BD) and the Industrial Sector Credit (ISC) (Cr. 1816-BD). It was designed
to complement the IDA initiatives under the ISC, specifically focusing on reforms in export policy
and administration. During project identification, IDA took into account the shift in Government's
development strategy from reliance on state owned enterprises to private sector-led export promoting
industrial growth. To further support the export sector, a BB Task Force on Export Finance had
concluded that access to foreign exchange preshipment financing was an important constraint in
export development and recommended the establishment of an export development fund in foreign
exchange to meet the import requirements of exporters. IDA's performance was satisfactory in
identifying this Project to reform the export sector and provide exporters with a reliable source of
foreign exchange credit at world market rates. The Project was consistent with both the Bank's and
GOB's development strategy.
7.2          Project Preparation and Appraisal. For project preparation and appraisal, IDA relied
on its vast experience in Bangladesh obtained through IDA financed Trade and Industrial Policy
Studies (Cr. 1124-BD) and the ISC. To complete project preparation, a study on the export finance
system was commissioned by IDA to a consulting firm. The technical assistance component
considered the additional technical support necessary to improve institutions and procedures related to
the export sector. Thus, the Project placed emphasis on utilizing the institutional set-up, part of
which had been developed under previous IDA assistance and strengthening those areas which needed
improvement. A shortcoming in project design was the lack of a central coordinating unit to ensure
successful implementation of all project components. Other design weaknesses have been mentioned
in paras. 4.6 and 4.7. Technically the project was well conceived, as it considered the use of a
variety of instruments widely recognized as useful in supporting and developing exports, such as the



- 8 -
Duty Drawback Scheme, the SBW Scheme for duty exemption, the Inland Letter of Credit system,
the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme and the EDF for pre-shipment financing.
7.3          Supervision. Overall, IDA's supervision of the project was highly satisfactory.
Although the average number of formal supervision missions was 1.5 per year, the missions carried
out in-depth evaluation of the project status, which together with the continuous dialogue between the
Resident Mission and GOB, allowed the implementation of corrective actions, albeit with some delay.
These actions included the amendment of certain clauses guiding the use of EDF, which were found
to be restrictive in the more liberal trade regime of the early 1990s. By agreeing with GOB on the
need to relax the individual size and outstanding of the EDF sub-loans and to make export credit
guarantee optional rather than mandatory for using EDF, IDA showed flexibility in modifying the
eligibility criteria and the subloan terms and conditions without major departure from Project
objectives. These amendments, which were effected in October 1992, together with the changes in
Government policies, and a one-year extension of the Closing Date improved project implementation
and led to full credit disbursement and the achievement of most of the project objectives.
7.4          Relationships under the project were mostly cordial. Although, some differences
crept up initially between IDA and BB regarding the corrective actions that were needed to improve
Project implementation and disbursement of funds, they were subsequently removed through constant
dialogue carried out by the Resident Mission, which led to agreements on the DCA amendments.
IDA and USAID had a satisfactory working relationship, with the latter responding adequately to
IDA's concerns about delays in implementing the technical assistance component. The implemen-
tation of the TA component was monitored by a steering committee composed of representatives of
BB, DEDO, EPB, ECGD, IDA, USAID, the Economic Relations Division (ERD), the Ministry of
Commerce (MOC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the TA Consultants, which met often to
discuss the problems, reviewed the progress and the future work plan. The steering committee
succeeded in resolving most of the implementation problems of the TA component and forged a
strong relationship between all the parties concerned. There were no deviations from IDA policies
and procedures under the project.
8. Borrower Performance
8.1          The Government's participation in the Project was satisfactory, reflecting its overall
commitment to the Project objectives and to improve trade prospects particularly the promotion of
exports. Although, there was a lack of a clear cut institutional authority within the Government to
handle the project as a whole, leading to delays in taking appropriate corrective measures, it was
overcome by the high degree of commitment to promoting exports by the various Government
entities. The Government complied, albeit with some delay, with most of the covenants in the credit
agreement, including: (a) carrying-on a review of SBC's export credit insurance policies;
(b) preparing a study of ECGD's fee structure; (c) providing adequate funds to cover administrative
and promotional expenditures of ECGD; and (d) preparing a training program for ECGD staff.
Another covenant, which required the Government to deposit US$5 million to capitalize the EDF,
was complied partially, since the Government deposited US$3 million required for credit
effectiveness, but not the remainder due by July 1, 1990, alleging that the demand for credit was very
low. IDA accepted the Government's justification in view of the slow utilization of the Credit
initially. Concerning implementation steps to promote the use of the EDF, BB issued circulars to the



-9 -
banks informing them about the setting up of EDF, but the promotional efforts with exporters were
initially weak. At IDA's suggestion, BB agreed on a promotional seminar with bankers and exporters
in April/May 1990, which was followed by several more well attended seminars under the TA.
Although most of the technical assistance components were well implemented by the Government, the
attempts to strengthen ECGD were not successful, since this institution continued to have difficulties
in disbursing claims and collecting premiums.
8.2          GOB's performance with respect to IDA supervision missions' recommendations for
improving Project implementation was mixed. It did not implement some of the recommen-dations at
all, while implementing some with certain modifications and with a delay of more than a year. The
two major policy recommendations implemented by GOB were: (a) the adoption by the Government
of an Export Development Strategy, 1992-2000, which was announced to the public; and (b) the
preparation and publication by DEDO of flat rates of drawback for exportable items covering almost
90% of non-traditional export products.
8.3          BB's performance was mixed.  Although BB cooperated well during project
preparation and appraisal it opposed some critical corrective actions proposed by supervision missions
because of a lack of experience in export financing methods. The time lost in convincing BB of the
need for changes in subloan terms and conditions to reflect market requirements contributed to the
slow pace of implementation during the first three years of the Project.
9. Assessment of Outcome
9.1          The substantial achievement of Project objectives as described earlier combined with
the likelihood of sustaining the achievements indicate that the outcome of the Project is highly
satisfactory.
9.2          As already indicated, EDF is the only domestic source of financing a back-to-back
sight L/C for duty-free imports of exporters. While it may be assumed that some established
exporters may have resorted to back-to-back usance method of importing their inputs at a higher cost,
not all EDF users could have availed of that other method. For all EDF users, the Project provided a
valuable least-cost method of financing their imported inputs on a duty-free basis. This improved the
sector's competitiveness and provided a boost to exports. The use of EDF is increasing sharply and
as of July 31, 1995, about 140 exporters have used it to finance more than 2,350 L/Cs, through
thirteen banks for more than an amount of US$80 million to export goods worth more than US$200
million. The repayment experience under EDF has been highly satisfactory since the full amount of
the subloans have been repaid, except for a small sum of US$80,655.69 which could not be recovered
from the export proceeds.
9.3          The outcome of the TA component was mixed.  Although the TA was fully
implemented as planned, the outcome did not always produce the desired results. Thus, the TA
assisted BB to: develop a manual on export financing procedures and the EDF, expand the use of the
inland back-to-back L/C system, organize a series of seminars on export financing and EDF, and
conduct a study tour of some Asian countries. The manual and the seminars had a positive effect on
Project implementation but the inland back-to-back L/Cs, which are now widely used by all the
indirect exporters in the RMG sector, are not operating efficiently for a number of reasons outside the



- 10-
purview of the TA component. Of the various reasons, the most critical relate to BB's: (a) rigidity in
allowing only  inland back-to-back usan   L/Cs and not back-to-back  sight L/Cs; and
(b) ineffectiveness in ensuring that the terms and conditions of the L/C (payment of interest and the
principal upon maturity) are honored promptly by the issuing bank. The EPB established a
computerized information system on quotas as agreed under the program  which is working
satisfactorily. The TA strengthened DEDO with computer systems for calculating input coefficients
for most products to establish flat rates of drawback (more than 900 flat rates of drawback have been
published), streamlined the drawback system so that exporters can get their refund check in a week
for flat rates, and organized a number of seminars and study trips. However, the staff training at
DEDO was not effective as only a few staff were trained who were subsequently transferred out of
DEDO. At the ECGD, a study to improve the structure and operations of the ECGD was carried
out, the premium rates were revised, and the claim settlement process was streamlined. However,
the system showed very little improvement since ECGD: (a) has not become financially viable; (b) is
still slow in collecting premiums and reimbursing claims; and (c) has a negative image with banks
which are still reluctant to offer export credit based solely on ECGD guarantee.
10. Future Opration
10.1        The Project called for a joint IDA/GOB review of the EDF at the end to determine if
the EDF should continue. The review established the continuing need for EDF based on the very
positive feedback received from all the exporters that used EDF and their banks, as well as on the
sharp increase in demand. BB, therefore, decided to continue with the operations of EDF on the
same terms and conditions.
10.2        The following areas should be emphasized in follow-up operations:
(a)   deepening and expansion of the financial sector reforms. Follow on operations should
be linked to comprehensive reform of the financial/banking sector. They should focus
on encouraging banks to operate on a sound basis and assist BB in improving its
regulatory role through well designed eligibility criteria;
(b)   mainstreaming export financing by commercial banks by removing interest rate
distortions, eliminating mandatory offshore credit requirements for RMG exporters,
and increasing the banks' foreign exchange holding limits;
(c)   continuing trade policy reforms supported under the Second Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit (ISAC-II) and extending to cargo handling and storage and
forwarding at the ports and airport; and
(d)   restructuring of the export credit guarantee system to make it an effective collateral
for banks to extend export credit to small and successful exporters who do not have
any collateral to offer.



- 11 -
11.      Lon        e
11.1         The key finding of the project implementation experience is that credit lines like the
one under this Project should be guided by market conditions and should have sufficient flexibility to
change and adapt to the changes in the market. The implementation experience has provided some
important lessons which may be grouped into three categories: (a) design issues; (b) coordination
issues; and (c) quality issues, as discussed below:
11.2         Project Design Issues. The early experience under this Project has shown that
proper incentives built into the Project design are important for successful implementation. The
major incentive for exporters to use EDF was the interest rate. When the EDF rate was above the
local currency rate, exporters preferred the local currency loans and vice versa. The incentive for
the banks was the spread offered under EDF which was fixed at 2.5% for most subloans. This
fixed spread discouraged banks from actively promoting EDF to their clients since it could charge
its own (higher) spread for other loans because of the financial sector liberalization that occurred
after effectiveness of this Credit. Since GOB did not subsequently agree to free the spread to the
banks under EDF, most banks refrained from promoting EDF to their clients. The lesson learned
from this experience is that the pricing of subloans and spread to banks under investment credits
should be flexible and market determined rather than predetermined and fixed. Similar credit lines
in the future should, therefore, not dictate either the final interest rate to the exporter or the spread
to the banks using the facility. Moreover, the mandatory export credit guarantee for subloans
discouraged good exporters from using EDF because of the additional premium cost. Such
additional requirements should also be kept optional for the market to determine. BB's role in
administering the credit line should be kept to a minimum and the participating banks should be
given full responsibility for maintaining the required documentation for using the facility (para
4.7). Concerning training, the negative experience at DEDO (para 9.3) shows the need to ensure
that adequate personnel policies are in place at the institution in which training of staff is being
provided in order to ensure permanence of trained staff.
11.3         Project Coordination Issues. Good project coordination ensures that all participants
proceed according to the project's timetable, are informed promptly of actions taken by other parties
so that they may act accordingly, and participate in the design and implementation of corrective
measures in a timely manner. The implementation of this Project was affected by the lack of a clear
cut institutional authority within GOB for project implementation as a whole, which led to delays in
taking appropriate corrective measures. However, this problem was partially overcome by the
constant dialogue carried out by the Resident Mission and by the positive response of the Government
entities in taking corrective actions (para 8.1).
11.4         Ensuring Quality at Entry. The Project was successful because it supported GOB's
on-going trade reforns and export promotion strategy. This ensured strong GOB participation and
commitment which allowed effective implementation of some components and the taking of corrective
actions on other components when problems of project implementation arose. Thus, the need for a
pre-export line of credit was established by a BB task force created as a result of the Government's
concern for the sector. Similarly, GOB was able to respond appropriately, although with delays, to
IDA's advice on project modifications and other measures to ensure achievement of project
objectives.



- 12 -
PART HI. STATISTICALANNEXES
Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:    Project Costs
Table 5B:    Project Financing
Table 6:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial      Partial   Negligible    Not appiable
Macro policies               O               [          O             [/]
Sector policies                              [/1]                     El
Financial objectives         [/]             E          El 
Institutional development    O               [1/1       E 
Physical objectives          O               E          E             Il/]
Poverty reduction            O               E          E             [/]
Gender issues                EE                         El            [D]
Other social objectives      E               O          E             [a/]
Environmental objectives     Ol              E                        [V]
Public sector management     O               El         E             []
Private sector development   [1/]            0          E             E
Other (specify)              O               E          E             [V]



- 13 -
B.   Project sustainability        Likely       Unlikely             Uncertain
[/]           Ol                   El
Highly
C.   Bank performance              Satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                [1             E                    El
Preparation assistance        [01            a                    O
Appraisal                      [/]           a                    O
Supervision                    [/]           E                    E
Highly
D. Borrower performance         Satisfactory     SatisfactQry      Deficie
Preparation                   [/]            D                   E
Implementation                U              [/I                 E
Covenant compliance            a             [0/]                E
Operation (if applicable)     U              E                   E
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory    Satisfactoly     Deficient
[/]           El                  E



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits'
LoanlCredit Title                 Purpose                 Year of               Status
Approval
Preceeding Operations
1. Industrial Sector Credit   Policy and institutional      June 1987       Closed in March 1990.
improvements to boost exports
Following Operations
1. Financial Sector          Liberalizing the financial sector   June 1990  Closed in December 1993
Adjustment Credit             and restructuring the NCBs
2. Private Sector Industrial  Financing of private sector    March 1992    Slow disbursements and
Credit                       investments                                    unsatisfactory
implementation progress
3. Second Industrial Sector   Liberalizing regulatory and    October 1992   Closed in December 1993
Adjustment Credit            fiscal policies to encourage                   without release of 2nd
private sector investment                     tranche
4. Jute Sector Adjustment     Restructuring the jute sector  January 1994   Unsatisfactory
Credit                                                                      implementation progress
due to slow down in
privatizing public sector
jute mills.
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives.
A limit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned'         latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                     08/28/87
Preparation                                                                    11/10/87
Appraisal                                                    01/21/88*         02/06/88
Negotiations                                               March 1988*         10/24/88
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                                     NA
Board presentation                                          May 1988*          04/11/89
Signing                                                                        04/26/89
Effectiveness                                                07/31/89          10/25/89
First tranche release (if applicable)                                            NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                   NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                               NA
Project completion                                                             06/30/94
Loan closing                                                                   06/30/94
* Final EPS.
I As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



- 16 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95 *
Appraisal estimate             4.5        12.0        21.0       25.0
Actual                         3.0         3.1        4.1        14.8       26.9        27.0
Actual as % of estimate        66%        25%         20%        59%          -          -
Date of final disbursement     July 6, 1994
* Total cumulative disbursements are higher than total credit amount due to variations in exchange rate.
Table 5A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Items             Local       Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total
costs       costs                   costs       costs
1. Pre-shipment Import      -         30.0       30.0           -           30.1        30.1
Financing
2. Technical Assistance    0.5*        0.7         1.2         0.5           0.7         1.2
TOTAL                0.5        30.7       31.2          0.5         30.8        31.3
* Inclusive of US$0.02 million equivalent in duties & taxes.
Table 5B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total
Source             costs    costs                     costs    costs
IBRD/IDA                       -       25.0      25.0             -        27.1       27.1
Cofinancing institutions      0.5       0.7      1.20            0.5        0.7        1.2
(USAID)
Domestic contribution (GOB)    -        5.0      5.0              -         3.0        3.0
TOTAL               0.5      30.7     31.2             0.5       30.8      31.3



-17-
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants'
Agreement  Section         Description of Covenant               Status           Comments
DCA       3.02(a)        GOB to establish and maintain an EDF   CP       EDF was set up with an initial
with an initial contribution of US$3           GOB contribution of US$3 million
million before effectiveness and US$2          prior to effectiveness. The
million by July 1, 1990.                       remaining US$2 million was not
deposited by July 1, 1990, due to
insufficient demand for EDF at
that time.
DCA        3.02(c)       GOB to establish and maintain an advisory    C
committee for EDF with satisfactory terms
of reference.
DCA        3.04          Procedure for procurement.              C
DCA        4.01          Maintenance of Accounts and Audit.      C
DCA        Schedule 2,    Joint Review of EDF to determine whether   C
Para 4        it should continue after Project
completion.
DCA        Schedule 2,    Conditions to strengthen the ECGD and  C
Para 5        train its staff.
DCA        Schedule 2,    SBC to provide ECGD with adequate      C
para 6        administrative and promotional
expenditures and review ECGD's fee
structure.
This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.



- 18 -
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'
Stage of project cycle        Actual Staff Weeks
Through appraisal                    29.3 sw
Appraisal-Board                      48.2 sw
Board-effectiveness                    NA
Supervision                          50.3 sw
Completion                            16.3 sw
TOTAL                         144.1 sw
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.



- 19 -
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of           Month/     Number    Days in  Specialized
project cycle       year       of         field     staff skills       Performance rating2
persons              represented                             l
Implemen-  Develop-
tation     ment
status     objectives
Through appraisal   7/17/87       3          24
Appraisal through    7/5-28       4          24
Board approval     1988
Board approval              -           -           -                    -           -
through
effectiveness
03/18/90       2           6     Ind. Economist       2           2
Supervision        10/01/90       2         (20)   Fin. Analyst         3            2
06/01/91       2         (20)   Fin. Analyst          3           3
01/1/92        2         (23)   Fin. Analyst          3           2
4/25/93        2         (15)   Fin. Analyst          1           1
4/20/94        2          (2)    Program Officer      I           I
Completion_. 
Key to specialized staff skills.
2 Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).



- 20 -
Table 9: EDF Disbursements and Interest Rates
Fiscal       Annual       Cumulative      EDF Rate
Year      Disbursement   Disbursement   (LIBOR + 1)   Local Currency
(US$ Million)  (US$ Million)   High    Low        Rate
1989-1990          0.00           0.00    9.56%   9.56%         9.00%
1990-1991          0.12           0.12    9.56%   7.50%         9.00%
1991-1992          5.80           5.92    7.50%   5.06%        11.00%
1992-1993          7.68          13.60    5.06%   4.25%        10.00%
1993-1994         16.36          29.96    6.25%   5.13%         9.25%
1994-1995         42.67          72.63    7.00%   6.25%         9.25%    l
Table 10: Itemized Utilization of EDF
Cumulative                     Cumulative
Export Item     Disbursement     Percentage     Disbursement     Percentage
(Upto 06/30/94)     Share      (Upto 06/30/95)      Share
(US$ Million)                  (US$ Million)
Readymade          27.00              90.01%      65.04               89.54%
Garments
Footwear             1.09             3.64%        4.32                5.95%
Printing &           1.81             6.04%        3.22                4.42%
Packaging
Buttons              0.04             0.13%        0.04                0.06%
Ceramic              0.02             0.06%        0.02                0.03%
TOTAL           29.96            100.00%      72.64               100.00%



- 21 -
Table 11: Bank-wide Utilization of EDF
(as of July 31, 1995)
No. of L/C        EDF
Name of Bank       Opened         Disbursed                  Major Export Item
NCs
Agrani                745           19.351           RMG, Knitwear, Ceramics, Footwear
Sonali                240           11.147                     RMG, Knitwear
Janata                 18            1.726                     RMG, Knitwear
NCB Total            1,003          32.224
National              780           27.889                         RMG
Pubali                214           10.063                     RMB, Knitwear
UCBL                  150            2.744                  Printing & Packaging
IFIC                   75            4.132                         RMG
BASIC                  29             1.786                        RMG
Uttara                 25            1.961                         RMG
ABBL                    9            0.384                         RMG
City                    1            0.065                         RMG
PCB Total           1,283           49.024
EC&
SBI                   61             1.089                       Footwear
Habib                  6             0.021                         RMG
|FCB Total            66             1.110
Grand Total         2,352           82.358



- 22 -
Table 12: Bangladesh's Exports of Traditional and Non-traditional Goods
Traditional Exrts           Non-traditional Exports        Total Exports
Fiscal                %     % Share               % Growth    %                   %
Year     Value     Growth              Value                Share    Value      share
FY83    473.69         -      69%      212.91          -      31%      686.60    100%
FY84    541.44        14%     67%      269.56        27%      33%      811.00    100%
FY85    599.90        11%     64%       334.53       24%      36%      934.43    100%
FY86    447.84       -25%     55%       371.37       11%      45%      819.21    100%
FY87    435.54        -3%     40%       641.07       73%      60%   1,076.61    100%
FY88    420.65        -3%     34%       810.55       26%      66%    1,231.20    100%
FY89    416.78        -0%     32%       874.78       8%       68%   1,291.56    100%
FY90    491.61        18%     32%    1,032.09        18%      68%   1,523.70    100%
FY91    431.99       -12%     25%    1,285.56        25%      75%   1,717.55    100%
FY92    411.19       -5%      21%    1,582.73        23%      79%    1,993.92    100%
FY93    399.36        -3%      17%    1,983.53       25%      83%   2,382.89    100%
FY94    367.05        -8%      14%    2,166.85        9%      86%   2,533.90    100%



- 23 -
APPENDIX A
Page 1
Economk Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Sh.,.4angla Nagar
*+tJ    From : Md. Saifullahl,                 MAh1207
Sr. Aesiatant 'ecretary.
D.-O No ....               94I,# ,,t/94/71        Opmd..d.P=,J R.* .11 3 ....
i)ear Mr. Shcimsuddin,
Sub : Export Development Proj ect ( Credit No. 2000 3D)
ImDlenentlation of CoMpletion Report.
Please refer to your letter dated August 17, 1994
on the above subjeot. I am pleased to send herewith the
comments on the draft Implementation Complotion Report of
Eixport Development ProJ ect (Credit No.2O00-MD) an received
from the Banglaldoeh Bank, Oadharan Bima Corporation ana, DEo
for your kind information and necessary action. Ministry of
Commiiiierce, EP3 & IUBR do not have any further comment on the
said repprt.
Yours Sincerely,
l( d. Saifu   h)
tAr. Shamsnddin Ahmed,
Sr. Program Officor
(Tr,ade & 1Firn;Lnco )                    I
World Dank Resident iTiusion
in 1angludesh, 3A', Paribagh,
Dhaka*. 



- 24 -
APPENDIX A
Page 2
OI12 DRV=IOPWINT PUID-WIVAUATIOIJ
NIlPORT AIR MlPOSAL1B
The soononio devolopmnt of our oountry is interlinked
with proMotion of ezpotr.earAings. It ham been observed
that the contributioA of nontraditional items in export
sector has bean onsiderably increasing smnog last faw
years. However,the export sator in stll. oonfined with a
limited nunmber of comodIileo. The need. for diversi'fioation
of to expoort products to widen the export bass Io a must
tor our suwivel. The *xporter of non-traditionlal Item
particularly the manufaoturiag products Uoed to tace t-yere
problem in gotting financing againof their mported ia*-
mLterril. for manufaotuiting the export producto. They,
had to sacept the hard term loan which was also generally.
inadequate with respect to their requireoments. The nw
exporters used to Leo. thWe problem more soutely. Then the
Biport Development lwsA wm oreated to alleviate thEse
problems of the ezoa'br, 
The projeot was 1aed -to assure a continued'
availabllLty of foreianEexohange to moet import requremeAts
of non-tradltional exp9rtirs, specilly'nower uxportera and
exporters divermifying iAto new markets and qxporterii
divseraifying into higher value exporto.The Internatlonal
Development Asooiatlon jam provided finanoiol assiuinice
by giving a oredit esxounting US$ equivElaAt to ODR 19.4
million under a oredLt agroenat with dovernment of
saagladeoh, The  aovo2.inpt 6f Blanodeaii also  committed
to providA...this fund ith  U84 5 milllon. Th  creh t,
ap6menA wax signed on 24.4.1989 and beome offective on
25. 10.1 989.
Contd....PO



- 25 -
APPENDIX-A
Durind the imuitial stage of the project tie                  Page 3
utliolation  poeition of the  fnd -was very uneLc,Liwsfaotorye
But at the out net of the fin..ncial yes.r 1991-92 the
utilisation got momentum. Some smendlmeits in policies
regardinZ the eligibility oriterea for utiliuing the fund
r3ade the fund attractive to the exporter. The amnendmentt are
s9 followas
1. )1axhiaUm sub-loan size has been increaced from
US$ 200,000 to US$ 5000-00
2. Maxirwum oi~tstanding loan of an exporter has been
increased from US$ 500,000 to Ul$ 1,000,000
3. T-,e compLasion of obtaini.ng export credit guarantee
for the scheduled bunk again3t saoh suoh loan ham
been waived
Besides  tlxenc the ED? otatement of lending policy and
operating Procedure has been amended to allow, thie 100%
export oriented induLstrieA to utilso EDP finsncing against
advanoe irnports. The fall of LIr0B  rate also played an
important role to lure the *Xporter using this fund. The
9
Project started with intereat rate 9T6% whLlch rediced upto
,lnim= 44% , The preseat inftoreat rate ii 44 
The seuinar,meetingjadvertis.ement eto.plctzed a vital
role to malce the conoerned people well aware about the
project. Bangladeah Bamk held several meetings with the
exporters end bwnkers at its own initiatives to fumilipries th
projeot with them. Eight somincxhhave been held in different
districtAon export divelopment Pund In joint oillab,syt ion of
Bsansladesh Bank and USAID sp0Y*eby3 the latter to make the
concerned agencies/persons oonversant about the projeot. A
booklet has also been publisedd on Dxport financing &
Cont... *P/3 t



- 26 -
APPEFNDIX A
Page 4
manual. It was distributed among the oonoerned persons
eXporter s
specially the reputed & bonafide & bankers attended in
the aemAaur6 . Your persona were sent abroad on a study
tour on behalf of Export Development PuAd. These two
abigmments wre aeaso spongored by UtSAID.
The ploaject hias made a wide reaponse among the
nonitr tdilional exporters. It is observed that onoe an
exporter oozes to utillse this fund uslly av'L-Ud; uoc_
thia fa;nd. The suooesx of the Projeot oan be asertained a bit
from the following data on utilisation of this Aind.
Year-wine Di,pursemntLt
;9g_50 ~ ~ ~ ~~~.Ia D o       isbur_12dat11L
1990-91                           121,416.93
1991-92                         5,804,939.47
1992-93                         7,676,324.13
1993-94                        16,364,408.31
Total UBW  29,969,091.84
Itideed it may be ooncluded here that If there is a
incere will then nothing cam dlster/prevent once's suaoesa
which )u-c uloo beca ason in 0c50 of lxport Developmient ?und.
The proJect vicoS just t3bout to be foiled. Dut the allout
effoits of the world Oan3k,USAIb ,Ranglu.deuh Bezk and
oonoorned miristrriAngommeroisl banks and persona made the
project n euoucice in one year axtendod time.
8 xeortera of dLffernet oomnmoditus vi7,pyintti;g g
paokagt5g produoto,foot1 wear,ce:renio,button and readymade
garsoents huve availd of this ftiud for lmportinng their required
rwmaterails for production of the above mentioned produots.
The rate of ropoymenta io 10O% within the atipula         6
of the 15DP (180 days).



- 27 -
APPENDIX A
Prom the experience of EDY we have learnt that holdis    Page 5
of regular meetinzg,seminar,workship with the oonoerned agencies,
persons and  spectally the benificiurieu of the fund' provides
the required suggecbivi SInformation rLbout lthe Ileling of the
projeot so that one can ohange/amend the.proJeot policy
accordingly. It helps a lot for succOsful implementation of any
projeot. NJe *4o thing that If a feQa number of xeminar. on
ED31 could had been held befor. the starting 'of the proJeot end
tho rest j'tnt during the first fJz.anoial yeer of the projeot
tl-A -tao ut1ilsation of tho fund would have got momentum
at the firiit phago oftlie pz'oJeot,The study tour of the offSoialu
on behlaf of Export Development  uad was oonducted.  very lately.
For this reason the,r experino.u acquired from tho tour hardl3y
contribute anything for the projeot,
ronpte all these oonstrutntu the project haS uuoeDfuly
been iriiplcmented.
The experioenoes gathered' from the lmpiemeAtation of the
xpirt Development projeot make us givq follv*ing recouendati.o-
nf.
The follown:, componontu and proposals' may please be
cormni3dered for inolunA.on in tho propoood Second Export
Development Prol ect.
1.PinZoirt'an.istaz,oe :of LpDo.rbt 1  ovital mischinerYs
'the p2rtiolpants, pecially the exporters attending
different seininars and meetings on Export Development Fund
expreesMed the nieed for providing  financial aesi,t&noe iunder
long term pro,iramu.e and liberal conditions for iinportm of
c4pital'maohineries  loang w'th the fecility providing under the
present project for import-' of raw materiiluh We elsc thik
that the present Luadequate fin4roi.l nvisstenee  for import of



- 28 -
APPENDIXA
capital machinery is one of the main impedimenta in             Page 6
increasing the country'o export earnltnga through settingup
more export oriented iaoustries & ezpszonAo    e existig
induatries. Particularly the new exporters are facing thin
problem aoutely. Taking all these factors Into concideration
we propose to create a fund amounting US$ 75 million to help
the gehiuine exporters to boost up country's export.Priority
may be given to the exporters having uuffioia.t technaoal
know-how. ^ nev and prospeotous sector. Manufacturing &
asiembling of eleetrono products and export of information
technology and computing services ejay open =w    area.e.
el'c C4 'Ad..   ODS
in the export sector an garments            i in Banglafdsh if
we can provide the required financing and' patronisation.
2. Seminar.Advortiqement and gtudY Tour.
Prpm the experienoes of the present Export Development
lund it is observed that seminar,meeting and advertisement
oan play an importont role to make the ooncerned peraons
fully convergent about the project. Besides thEe banking
comunity can acquire praotioal Knowledge visiting devreloping
oo3ntrieg to observe lhow they have beoome suooeusful to raise
their export earnings by introducing innovative ideas covering
export inoentives and liberal export financing. After having
expooures from those countries they will be able to contribute
a lot for the export development by formulating now policy/
guidelines for the purpose. A fund forkO.1 million may be
created to faoil.tate the impleinentation of the above mentioned
scheme.
3.prenent BzDort DoveloDment  andi
The Project has sucoeugully been L.mplenented. It has
beooome very helpful to the ezporters and im playing a vitai
rolo in inoreasing the country's export earninge. Based kn
t1hese experiences anid takimg into consideration of the  now
dan=d of the fund lve recownd for oontinuation    t            Jeot
Oontd. ... P/6



- 29 -
APPENDIX A
Page 7
through reoycling of the fiuund after the freaomt
completion date of the project.
4. An reoomended in the aovernment's Aotion plan for
Implemelttation of Ban3ladeeh Exp .ptrt Development st orategy
for 1992-2000 we are also in favour of oreation of a fund
for produot developmentm]arlet promotion by carrying out on
oxtensive publioity campaign in order to turn the drive for
the export led growth into an economic molvemevt.
5. If the proposal for continuation of the present
export Development Iund is coaepted thenx we also propooe for
strengthening of the aeotion/depaLtment which is directly
lncolved with implementation & operatinZ the fu.nd of the
project. It is obvious from the trend of the utilisRlion of the
fund that tbe volume of the work of export Development fund
will inorease Xainfold within a few years. For emoth & proper
functioning of the fund and enasring keeping with the&untain4n&
suucces of the project the above mentioned seotion may be
equipped with .computsr.photooopy.machine,eleetronlc typewriter
mcailine and other modern anmenaties. A portion of the fund
for the proposed tohiniojal part of the  E9UNZXRX proposed
second Exp ort Development Pro,jeot may be used for this
furpose.
r4'iq



- 30 -
APPENDIX A
Page 8
ECO's comments on the Implementation
Completion Report of Export
Development Project (Loan 2000 BD)
The knowledlge and efficiency of ECOD's officers & staff has increased in respect
or the existing schemea due to technical assistance provided under the Export
Development Project. Moreover, the scheme has become familiar to Banks and
exporters to a great extent in view of Seminar/Training  arranged under EDP.
However, dtie to late supply of computers under the project, training of ECG
officlals thereon could not be completed. But owing to the following bottlenecks,
the achievemnent in the growth of ECG's business has not reached the desired level.
a)    Witlhdrawal of ECG from EDF
djs bursement -conditiopalitiea
it was provided in the agreement signed between the Govt cf People's
Republic of Bangladesh and IDA that all loans from EDF must be covered
unlder ECO. But due to the withdrawal of the above condition subsequently,
the significance of ECO in the eyes of banks uirid exporters lessened causing
LLnfavourable effect in the growth of ECG business.
b)    Controversy regarding payment of
Prmium  nder finAnce g3aThnteeL
Due to the circular issued by Bangladesh Bank directing the commercial
banks to bear the premium cost of export finance guarantee the banks have
lost interest in ECG. Because, if they bear premium cost, they incur loss in
export credit transactions. Banks being cominercial organisations are not
expected to bear loss in a particular field for an indefinite period. In other
countries of the world, premium under export finance guarantee is
ultimately boi ne by the exporters. Hence the Ministry of Commerce has
already asked Bangladesh Bank to withdraw the above directive.
c)    Lt       Er     e
So far we have been able to introduce three types of Export Credit
Guarantee Schemes, But banks and exporters have a tendencv to cover only
the risky export credits under these guarantees resulting u lhigher claim
ratio. On the other hand due to lack of experience and knowledge in the
relevant field it is not possible to introduce new schemes as desired by
theml. Since training provided to ECG officials under EDP was concerned with
existing schemes only imiediate steps shoutld be taken to provide further
foreign training to them so that it is possible tll ,ntroduce new srchemes in
thie near future.
cl)  ~j~arate  rition for, EC
Sad haran Bima Corporatioii being a coinmercial organisation is not the
proper place to administer a promotional scheme liF': ECCI;. In othter countriea
of the World, ECO is administered either by a Govt. voluartment or by a
separate Government organisation on no losp no profit basis. Hence
expatriate conaultarit of the project, World Bank & USAID heave strongly
recom mended to form a separate organisation for running ECG Schemes but
so fair the recomnmendation has not been materialieed:



- 31 -
APPENDIX A
Page 9
e)    Premium Rate & Claim SettleMent:
Premium rates of our schemes have been kept low as far as possible so that
our clients can bear theni easily. These are compatible with those of similar
schemes in our neiglhbouring countries, The ECG consultant of the World
Bank who examined our schemes was also of the same opinion.
The claim settlement process has been streanmlined so that inordinate delay
does noi-occur in settlement of ECG claims.
Somne steps have been taken towards the solution of the above problems. It
has already been decided to introduce a new scheme under the caption of
'wiholeturnover pre-shipment finance guarantee'. It is expected that ECO's
premium income will increase to a great extent if the new scheme is accepted
by some cornmercial banks. However, in order to increase the effectiveness
of the scheme in promoting national exports, suggestions indicated above
shiould be iniplemented. Further technical assistance is a must for improving
the efficiency and knowledge of ECGD officials so that it is possible to
introduce new ECO schernes for meeting the growing needs of our bankers
& exporters.



- 32 -
APPENDIX A
Page 10
DEDo was one of the agencies benefited under the TA project (No.
EDP 2000 BD TRP-II, 388-0074) funded by USAID under the umbrella of tho Export
Developmerit Project , the other agencies being the Bangladesh Bank,S.B.C, and
the EPB.
2.   The TA project aimed at achieving the following in bEDO-
1. Simplified procedure of duty,drawback calculation arid
notification of Flat Rates of lRefund.
2. Estimate Tax effects on Export.
l
3. Computerize DEDO's MIS, and help in the creation of a database.
4. Provide hardware and also training to officers and staff in
computer usage.
5. Arrange Seminars about export procedures, and DEDO's system of
duty drawback for the benefit of the exporters, and
6. Help in the exposure of selected DEDO officials to outside
practices by funding foreign visits.
ACHIEVEMENT:
The Project objectives in DEDO were partially achieved before the project
expired on 31st August,1993. 6(six) computers and a server linked to a LAN
system were provided. Program for Flat rate calculation was developed and 500
flat rates notified,no mean achievement. 2(two) weU publicized seminars and
workshops were organized in Dhaka and Chittagong. Because of Government
restrictions, DEDO was unable to recruit regular computer professionals by the
time the project ended and therefore with USAID's concurrence Government
extended the projgct for another year for the limited purpose of hiring a local
computer contractor to help run DEDO's computer room and also train officers
and staff. With tlhe training received from the (local) contractor, DEDO is now
able to run the coimputer room in some fashion. DEDO is trying to expedite
regular appointmnent of computer professional.At the same time with special
Government funds, it is in the process of engaging a computer contractor to help
run its computer roonm.
During the Project Life, a total of 3 small delegations comprising DEDO
officials, including its D.C., visited regional countries to aquaint themselves with
export incentives and duty drawback facilities provided in these countries.
Overall, the objectives of the Project in DEDO may be said to have been
achieved.
MCS arak A. Molla
D.G.



- 33 -
APPENDIX B
Page 1
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
quEji..                      Dftka, Bangladsh
1 1OCT 195
Mr. Shamsuddin Ahmad                                            ra
Senior Financial Analyst                          AID Lr No .......- -
World Bank RMB
3A Paribagh
Dhaka
Subject:  Export Development Project: Implementation Completion
Report
Dear Mr. Ahmad;
Thank you for sharing with USAID the subject Export Development
Project Implementation Completion Report. We regret that we were
unable to review the subject report and provide you with USAID's
comments earlier. However, we hope that you will find the attached
comments prepared by our staff to be useful for your final report.
Thank you and regards,
Sincerely,
Richard M. grown
Migsion Director
Attachments: a/s



- 34 -
APPENDIXB
Page 2
m2S2ort DeveloRment Prolect
Comments on World Bank's Imleetain CoMpletion Report,
The World Bank'S           ation     8    n Retort (ICR) for the
Export Development Project (EDP) in Bangladesh provides a good
analysis of the implementation success of EDP. 'While the report
significantly covere the implementation issues of the IDA Credit
(Credit 2000-BD) to assist GOB's efforts to promote exports,. the
description of the implementation of the USAID-funded Technical
Assistance and'its impact could be enhanced. The TA component,
though delayed in initial implementation, played critical role in
facilitating resolution of project coordinating problems.
Therefore, in section 9 of the report, Assessment of Outcome, we
recommend that the para 9.3 be revised to reflect the contribution
of the TA component and separate the analysis of eome of the causes
of inefficiency of BTB L/Cs which was beyond the purview of the TA
Team. Except for this issue, all components of the TA activities
were implemented successfully and produced positive results. The
report should also include a table of the growth in disbursement
(amount and number, as well time taken) of duty drawbacks by DEDO
since the implementation of the TA. In identifying the lose of -
trained personnel due to frequent transfers, the report could focus
more on this systemic problem in GOB, and the need to resolve this
problem before any additional training assistance is provided.



-  K      rf   f - It                   1  i
F:v,,, tv           s t    .            1r    -; -
T '; F w-:     1 '                              :






