Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2000 BD 
(Export Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 26, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2000 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH   (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID Grant) in an amount of  
$1,200,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and USAID; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Bangladesh Bank" means the Borrower's central bank established pursuant to 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972).
     (b)  "DEDO" means the Duty Exemption Drawback Office of the National Board of 
Revenue in the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (c)  "ECGW" means the Export Credit Guarantee Wing of the Sadharan Bima   
Corporation (SBC), a state-owned insurance corporation;
     (d)  "EDF" means the Export Development Fund established pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "EPB" means the Export Promotion Bureau in the Borrower's Ministry of 
Commerce;
     (f)  "Indirect Exporter" means an entity that supplies inputs, with imported 
contents, to Non-traditional Exporters;
     (g)  "LIBOR" means the six-month London Inter-Bank Offer Rate;
     (h)  "New Non-traditional Exporter" means a Non-traditional Exporter not having 
filled more than three export orders prior to an application for a Sub-loan;
     (i)  "Non-traditional Exporter" means an exporter of goods other than jute, jute 
goods (except jute carpets) and tea (except consumer packaged tea and teabags) or an 
exporter of garments with a domestic content of at least 30% who either exports 
directly, or indirectly through an export firm;
     (j)  "refinancing" means the financing by the EDF, through Subsidiary Loans, of 
Sub-loans made  by Scheduled Banks from their own foreign exchange resources;
     (k)  "Scheduled Bank" means a state or privately held commercial bank established 
or operating under the laws of the Borrower;
     (l)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (m)  "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending policy and operating 
procedures of EDF as approved by the Borrower and issued by Bangladesh Bank on 
December 7, 1988;
     (n)  "Sub-Borrower" means an exporter to which a Scheduled Bank proposes to make 
or has made a Sub-loan;
     (o)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Scheduled Bank to a 
Sub-Borrower for pre-shipment financing in foreign exchange of  imported inputs, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and which  is or is proposed to be 
refinanced by the proceeds of the Credit; and
     (p)  "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
through the EDF to a Scheduled Bank for the refinancing of a Sub-loan  in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to nineteen million four hundred thousand  Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 19,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by the Borrower out of the EDF on account of Sub-loan disbursements  under Part A of 
the Project, to the extent of 100% of EDF refinancing of Sub-loans; provided, however 
that no withdrawals shall be made:
          (i)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
               accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions
               set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
               of this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open  and 
maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures 
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or such later date   as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which  amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled;  and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1999 and ending  December 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
Page  4
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out Parts A and B.1 of the Project through Bangladesh Bank, Part  B.2 of the Project 
through DEDO, Part B.3 of the  Project through SBC and Part B.4 of the Project through 
EPB, with  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this  
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,  the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the  roject to be carried out in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain  an EDF, 
in foreign currency, with: (i) an initial capitalization in an amount  equivalent to 
$5,000,000 (an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be deposited before effectiveness of 
the Development Credit Agreement and an amount  equivalent to $2,000,000 to be 
deposited before July 1, 1990); (ii) qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
number; and (iii) a Statement of Policy satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the  
Borrower shall use at least 20% of EDF's initial funds of $30,000,000  equivalent for 
refinancing Sub-loans to New Non-traditional Exporters.
     (c)  The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain an advisory committee 
for EDF having such terms of reference as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Subsidiary Loans and Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall use the principal and interest repaid to EDF on account 
of Subsidiary  Loans and any interest accrued on the investment of EDF funds for 
further relending under the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subsidiary  Loan 
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower and the  Association; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii)  achieve the purposes 
of Part A of the Project.
     Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for Part A of the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Page  5
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section including those for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine months after the end of each such
               year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after
               the Association has received the audit for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a) a change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without the 
Association's consent; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the
               Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
               Borrower for the financing of Part B of the Project shall have
               been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in  part,
               pursuant to the terms of the USAID Grant Agreement.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
Page  6
               that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not
               caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
               obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
               terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (b)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
     (a)  EDF has been  established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 
(a) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID Grant Agreement 
have been fulfilled, subject only to those relating to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 (b) of this Agreement shall cease 
and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date ten 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the 
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as  representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           External Resources Division
           Ministry of Planning
           Government of the People's Republic
                of Bangladesh
           Dhaka
           Bangladesh
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                BAHIRSAMPAD                    642226 SETU BJ
                Dhaka
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
Page  7
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                        By /s/ A.H.S. Atual Karim
Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are (i) to promote incremental exports by 
facilitating access to foreign exchange pre-shipment financing; and (ii) to strengthen 
the institutions responsible for carrying out the Borrower's export policies.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Export Development Fund
     A program to refinance, through the EDF, Sub-loans made by Scheduled Banks to 
Non-traditional and Indirect Exporters.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Provision of technical assistance to Bangladesh Bank for the preparation of a 
manual on export procedures and financing and the carrying out of seminars and 
overseas training.
2.   Provision of technical assistance, equipment, materials, and local and overseas 
training to DEDO for institutional strengthening in the area of duty drawback systems.
3.   Provision of technical assistance, equipment, materials, and local and  overseas 
training to ECGW for institutional strengthening in the area of export credit 
guarantee.
4.   Provision of technical assistance and equipment to EPB for institutional 
strengthening in the area of export monitoring.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Page  8
1.   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank, in carrying out Part A of the  Project, 
to maintain data on the costs of administering the EDF. The Borrower  shall review 
such costs annually starting March 1, 1990, with a view to deciding whether Bangladesh 
Bank should have such costs reimbursed.
2.   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to adjust the interest rate for 
Sub-loans: (i) on a quarterly basis to be equal to LIBOR plus 1%; and (ii)  whenever, 
during a quarter, the LIBOR increases or decreases by more than  0.25% over the LIBOR 
used for calculating the interest rate for such quarter.
3.   The Borrower and the Association shall annually, commencing on or before January 
31, 1990, carry out a joint review of the operations of the EDF including the demand 
for funds by New Non-traditional Exporters and the  interest rate of Subsidiary Loans. 
The Borrower shall, thereafter, prepare  and  carry out an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, if the results of the review require action to be taken. Such 
actions shall include:
     (a)  if the demand for funds by New Non-traditional Exporters is found to be low, 
the Borrower shall take actions to improve the use of the funds by  such Exporters; 
provided that, after such joint review, the funds may be used  for a limited time for 
purposes of Non-traditional and Indirect Exporters;
     (b)  if there is no demand for funds by New Non-traditional Exporters or if the 
demand remains low despite any actions taken in accordance with paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower shall use the funds for Sub-loans to Non-traditional and Indirect 
Exporters; and
     (c)  if the demand for funds by Exporters is in excess of available funds, the 
Borrower shall provide additional funds to the EDF equal to 20% of the  annual excess 
demand, up to a maximum of $10,000,000 equivalent. For purposes  of this 
sub-paragraph, "annual excess demand" means the difference between the amount of 
eligible financing requested by Sub-borrowers and the amount disbursed from the EDF 
over the twelve month period preceeding the joint review.
4.   The Borrower and the Association shall on or before December 31, 1992, carry out 
a joint review of the operations of the EDF to decide whether the  EDF shall continue 
to operate after the completion of the Project.
5.   The Borrower shall cause SBC to:
     (a)  carry out, by June 30, 1990, a study to review its export credit insurance 
policies including ways of enhancing the financial viability and operational autonomy 
of ECGW;
     (b)  prepare, by September 30, 1990, a plan of action, including a training 
program for ECGW staff, taking into account the comments of the  Association on the 
recommendations of the study referred to in paragraph (a) above; and
     (c)  thereafter, carry out such plan of action.
6.   The Borrower shall cause SBC to annually, commencing not later than June 30, 
1990:
     (a)  establish yearly levels of adequate administrative and promotional 
expenditures for ECGW; and
     (b)  review ECGW's export credit guarantee fee structure as established in 1987 
to insure that it adequately covers claims and administrative expenditures.
7.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, or causing Part B of the Project  to be 
carried out, the Borrower shall cause any participant in overseas training to:
     (a)  furnish a study plan to the Association for comment;
     (b)  agree to serve in a relevant institution in accordance with the Borrower's 
Circular No. M, E (FT)-98/85-626(45), dated August 16, 1988; and
     (c)  prepare a report on the participant's findings and recommendations to be 
furnished to the participant's supervisors and the Association.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
A.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans by Scheduled Banks
1.   To be eligible for a Sub-loan a Sub-borrower shall be:
     (a)  a Non-traditional Exporter; or
     (b)  a New Non-traditional Exporter; or
     (c)  an Indirect Exporter; and
     (d)  not in default on any repayment on any loan from any bank or other financial 
institution.
2.   Interest on Sub-loans shall be at a fixed rate established by Bangladesh Bank on 
a quarterly basis, based on the six-month LIBOR plus one percent at the time of 
disbursement of the Sub-loan.
3.   Sub-loans shall be repaid over a maximum period of 180 days.
4.   The foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Sub-borrower.
5.   A Sub-loan shall not exceed an amount equivalent to $200,000.
6.   Sub-loan amounts outstanding to any one Sub-borrower shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $500,000.
7.   Procurement of goods shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
B.   Terms of Subsidiary Loans by EDF
1.   Interest shall be at a rate equal to:
     (a)  two and one-half percent less than the interest rate of the relevant 
Sub-loan in the case of Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers who are Non-traditional Exporters 
or Indirect Exporters; and
     (b)  three and one-half percent less than the interest rate on the relevant 
Sub-loan in the case of Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers who are New Non-traditional 
Exporters.
2.   The amount of refinancing shall be 100% of the amount of each Sub-loan.
3.   Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid by the Scheduled Bank to the EDF on the due date 
of the Sub-loan, whether or not the Sub-loan has been repaid to the Scheduled Bank.
4.   The Scheduled Banks shall obtain for each Sub-loan an export credit guarantee 
from ECGW.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for  Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract,  up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser 
of such goods.
3.   Proprietary items may be procured through direct contracting with  suppliers or 
manufacturers thereof under the Borrower's procedures which shall be acceptable to the 
Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.   Review of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for proprietary items, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines relating to  review by the 
Association of proposed contracts shall apply. Where payments  for such contract are 
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not  apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of  this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and  to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
                shall, on behalf of  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been made out of
                the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated for Part  A  of 
the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered  into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Part A of the  Project, shall equal the equivalent of $6,000,000 twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated for Part A of the Project shall follow such  procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or  justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has  provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent   withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
