Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 11869
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
MAY 21, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal until 1984-  RD$ 1.000 - US$1
Average 1985   -  RD$ 3.113 - US$1
1986   -  RD$ 2.878 - US$1
1987   -  RD$ 3.478 - US$1
1988   -  RD$ 5.782 = US$1
1989   -  RD$ 6.280 - US$1
1990   -  RD$ 12.50 - US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA        -    Agricultural Bank
Bank      -    The World Bank
CDE       -    Dominican Electric Corporation
CEA       -    State Sugar Council
IAD       -    Agrarian Reform Institute
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offie of Dirtor-Gen.ra
OpeaIon. Evaluation
May 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Dominican Republic
Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1760 - DO)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on the Dominican
Republic Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1760-DO)" prepared by the Latin American and the
Caribbean Regional Office.
The project experienced serious difficulties from the outset, and was a problem project for
many years. The Bank suspended disbursements for a year because of non-compliance with the
loan's financial covenants. Project objectives were not met, even though equipment for four mills
was procured. The executing agency was inadequately funded, poorly managed, and plagued by
political interference.
Reestimated economic and financial rates of return are negative due to higher than
anticipated investment and operating costs, deficient output, lower international sugar prices, and
a reduction in the U.S.A. preferential sugar quota.
Appraisal of Government commitment and its implementation capacity was deficient, and
the decision not to cancel the loan in 1986 was a mistake. In retrospect, divestiture/privatization
would have been a more effective alternative.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............................. 
EVALUATION SUMHARY   .                                                 ili
Part I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .1
Project Background.                                                1
Project Objectives and Description                                 2
Project Design and Organization.                                   3
Project Implementation.                                            4
Project Results.                                                   7
Project Sustainability  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
Bank and Borrower Performance .12
Project Relationship .14
Consulting Services ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Project Documentation and Data .14
Part II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .15
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development Impact on the Project' .16
Part III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .27
2   Project Timetable ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  28
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements  .         32
4.  Key Indicators ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........ .    33
5. Project Costs  ..... ...34
6. Project Financing  ..           ....35
7. Financial Assessment ... . .36
8.  Economic Assessment         . .   .   . . .  . . . . .        37
9.  Studies   ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ........ .  39
10  Status of Covenants  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  40
11. Use of Bank Resources      .... ...                           43
1/    The Borrower has submitted a full PCR which is available in LAC Files.
For purposes of this report, the descriptive sections have been excluded
from the Part II submission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sugar
Rehabilitation Project in the Dominican Republic, for which Loan 1760-DO in
the amount of US$35 million was approved by the Bank on September 18, 1979.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1991, four years behind the revised1'
schedule. US$33.4 million (95% of the loan) was disbursed and an amount of
US$1.65 million was cancelled effective December 31, 1991.
2.        This PCR was prepared by the Bank's Agriculture Operations Division
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.        Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and interviews with staff involved in project preparation and
implementation.
1/   The project was reappraised in 1982 due to delays in effectiveness
(paras. 3.02 and 5.01).






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective
1.        The project objective, as described in the appraisal report, was to
improve the operational efficiency and financial situation of the State Sugar
Council (CEA) by reducing production costs of sugar by avoiding major
breakdowns in the manufacturing process and in the transportation system and
by strengthening management systems. The project was designed to increase the
output of the CEA factories to the extent required to keep up with domestic
demand, expected to increase by about 5% per annum. The volume of sugar
exports was expected to be maintained at the appraisal (1978) level (para.
3.01). Of primary concern was the need to "rescue" the sugar industry from
its deteriorating position, such "rescue" operation being heightened by the
fact that sugar made up about 32% of the Dominican Republic's export earnings
(para. 4.03).
Implementation Experience
2.        The loan became effective on June 15, 1982, 32 months after loan
signing, and after several extensions. The delay was caused by the refusal of
the Dominican Republic Congress to ratify the cofinancing loan that had been
negotiated with a consortium of private banks. This was a condition of
effectiveness but was subsequently dropped (para. 5.01). It was estimated at
the time of reappraisal (paras. 3.02 and 5.01) that the CEA would disburse the
loan in five years and that the Closing Date would be June 30, 1987. In fact,
the project was closed on June 30, 1991, four years later (or six years after
the original closing date), after four extensions (para. 5.03). The project
experienced serious difficulties from the outset and had been a problem
project for many years. Because of non-compliance with the loan's financial
covenant and the Government's unwillingness to deal with the company's
financial situation, the Bank formally suspended disbursements for a year,
beginning April 2, 1986 (para. 5.04).
3.        Both risks cited at appraisal did, in fact, eventuate, i.e., world
price of sugar was lower than that projected by the Bank, and CEA still lacks
a continuing long-term capital investment program (para. 5.06).
Additionally, the slow start-up of project activities, lack of and untimely
provision of Government counterpart funds, Government interference in CEA
operations, delays in contract negotiation, and decline in the United States'



- iv -
preferential sugar quota, all combined to diminish the impact of the project
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07). In retrospect, and with the benefit of cumulative
experience with public sector operations in the Dominican Republic and
elsewhere, too much faith was placed in both CEA's and the Government's
willingness and/or ability to pursue economic efficiency (para. 4.03). A
question remains whether the Bank should have agreed to the extension of the
loan in 1987, in view of the precarious financial and political conditions
that prevailed during project implementation (para. 5.08).
Results
4.        For the most part, the project's development objectives were not
met. While there were substantial recommendations by consultants for
improving the organization and management of the CEA, the implementation of
such were very limited. In technical terms worn-out equipment has been
replaced in four sugar mills, and installation is ongoing in two of the mills.
Additionally, there has been partial completion of irrigation and drainage
studies for the Barahona sugar mill, and completion of studies for reducing
the cane area with some resultant crop diversification. Little was achieved
by way of cane transportation improvements. With these limited achievements,
CEA's overall operational efficiency and financial situation had not improved
by loan closing (paras. 6.01-6.05 and 6.08-6.10).
5.        Total project cost was US$62.23 million, 90% of appraisal estimate
of US$69.2 million (para. 6.06). The CEA's financial situation remains
unsound in large part due to the United States' sugar quota reduction by 70%
from 1978 to 1987, continued poor management of the CEA, Government
interference in CEA operations and lack of financial support, as well as low
world sugar prices. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is
negative (paras. 6.08-6.09). Indeed sugar production was 66% less than that
projected for the without project situation (paras. 6.10-6.11, Table 8).
Proiect Sustainabilitv
6.        Clearly, in terms of financial, economic and institutional
viability, the project is not sustainable under the current scenario.
However, equipment for two mills has been installed and other equipment is in
the process of installation (para. 6.02). Sustainability will require
substantial changes in key policies (economic, financial and institutional)
and further strengthening of the organization and management of the CEA.
Given the Dominican Republic's performance record of parastatals,
privatization in conjunction with full deregulation of the industry offers the
only viable option for the sugar industry (para. 7.01).
Lessons of the Proiect
7.        This project experience is a story of broken promises (by the
Government) and wishful thinking (on the part of the Bank). The "rescue"
operation has not been successful in part due to external factors (decline in
both U.S. preferential sugar quota for the Dominican Republic and of world
sugar prices). Nevertheless, internal factors to the country (primarily lack



- v -
of Government commitment to the project and inadequate and untimely
counterpart funding) led to the less than satisfactory project outcome. The
question remains for the Government, even more so than in 1978, as to the
viability of the public sector sugar industry in the Dominican Republic. The
following two major lessons were learnt from this project:
(a) public and private sector activities should always be
explicitly considered. Nevertheless, cumulative Bank
experience in the Dominican Republic and elsewhere shows that
restructuring of public sector enterprises, with a view to
making them more efficient, usually is not successful.
Divestment, through instruments such as outright sale,
management contracts, joint ventures and other forms of
partial privatization, have been shown to be more effective.
In some cases, liquidation of the state-owned enterprises is
necessary. The lesson from this project strongly suggests
that the Government of the Dominican Republic should embark on
a privatization program for its sugar holdings; and
(b) when there is a consistent pattern throughout project
implementation of Government not meeting agreed actions,
Government commitment should be called into question and
actions taken. Country relations are not served in the
medium/long term by failure to take hard decisions. The Bank
should have cancelled this loan earlier when it became evident
that counterpart funding problems and lack of Government
commitment would very likely persist (para. 8.04).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name:        Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Loan No.:            1760-DO
RVP Unit:            Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:             Dominican Republic
Sector:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Sugar Industry
2.        Proiect Background
2.01      Sugar exports play a key role in the Dominican economy providing
important foreign exchange and employment for the country. In 1978 sugar
contributed 32% of total exports, with the sugar industry accounting for about
60% of the labor use in the manufacturing industry. Three major groups
comprise the Dominican sugar industry: the private sugar industry with two
producers, Central Romana and the Vicini Group; the Government-owned State
Sugar Council (CEA)11; and the cane outgrowers comprising a large number of
individual farmers who produce cane and deliver it for milling at either a
private or a CEA-operated mill. In 1979, CEA produced about 60% of the
Dominican Republic's sugar exports. The sugar industry is characterized by
the large amount of labor imported from Haiti for the harvest work, and the
dependence on the United States preferential import quota, which at the time
of appraisal, amounted to 540,000 metric tons or 54% of Dominican Republic
sugar exports. In 1990, actual U.S. quota shipments of sugar were 261,000
metric tons or 74% of sugar exports.
2.02      Because of the sugar industry's importance to the Dominican
economy, the proposed project was considered to be of high priority. Indeed,
for several years prior to the commencement of the project, the Government had
been focusing on rehabilitating its sugar company, CEA. A program to increase
cane yields was to be initiated by the CEA and at the same time the CEA was to
work toward reducing areas in cane, thus releasing lands for crop
1/ CEA: Consejo Estatal del Azucar.



- 2 -
diversification programs, research and experimental activities, and for the
settlement of landless farmers by the Dominican Agrarian Institute (IAD). At
the time of project identification, a primary aim of Bank Group lending for
sugar was to improve efficiency and cost competitiveness of such industries in
developing countries. Projects involving rehabilitation were to receive
priority.- In line with this, the project was designed to support the
Government's policies for the sugar subsector, by rehabilitating a number of
CEA's mills in combination with a Government proposal to reduce the number of
mills to increase efficiency. Through the project the Dominican Republic was
expected to sustain its level of exports while meeting the projected increase
in domestic sugar consumption.
3.        Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      Prolect Objective.  The project objective, as described in the
appraisal report, was to improve the operational efficiency and financial
situation of the CEA by reducing the average production cost per unit in
agriculture, transportation, manufacturing, and management by avoiding major
breakdowns in the manufacturing process and in the transportation system and
by strengthening management systems. The project was designed to increase the
total output of the CEA factories to the extent required to keep up with
domestic demand, expected to increase at about 5 percent per annum. The
volume of sugar exports was expected to be maintained at the appraisal (1978)
level.
3.02      Prolect ComPonentS.  To accomplish the above objective, the
reappraised project- was to:
(i) rehabilitate six of the CEA's twelve operating sugar mills at
Ozama, Rio Haina, Boca Chica, Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona;
(ii) rehabilitate railway tracks at five locations and purchase hauling
cars, locomotives, telecommunications equipment and spare parts;
(iii) carry out irrigation and drainage studies at Barahona estate, a
cane area reduction program, and a pilot research program for
measuring cane sucrose content; and
(iv) provide technical services to assist the CEA in reorganizing and
improving its organization and management.
2/ As per Board paper on the sugar industry of February 2, 1978.
3/ Because of a two and a half year delay in effectiveness the project was
reappraised in 1982 to re-establish project costs and to reduce project
scope slightly (para. 5.01).



- 3 -
4.        Proiect Design and Organization
4.01      Towards the end of 1972 the Bank was invited by the Government of
the Dominican Republic to advise on ways and means of improving productivity
of the CEA. The feasibility study for the proposed project was undertaken by
Booker's Agricultural and Technical Services in 1975 and covered all the CEA
mills and corresponding agricultural and transportation facilities. The study
determined a capital investment program for the CEA that would rehabilitate
and expand the capacity of the sugar mills and transportation system. Based
on this study, two FAO/CP missions (November 1977 and March 1978) assisted the
CEA in identification and preparation work. The project was appraised in
October-November 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 16 to
July 20, 1979. Board approval was on September 18, 1979 and loan signing was
on October 26, 1979. The CEA was the Borrower of the loan (with the
Government as Guarantor) and was to implement the project through its Project
and Special Studies Department.
4.02      The project was developed as an interim operation designed to
maintain the CEA's existing (1978) production volume and to improve factory
efficiency. Of primary concern was the "rescue" of the sugar industry from
further deterioration. The justification for the "rescue" operation was
heightened by the fact that sugar made up about 32Z of the Dominican
Republic's export earnings and was, therefore, the backbone of the economy.
The project was seen as the beginning of a long-term rehabilitation effort for
the CEA mills.
4.03      Whereas today, privatization of CEA's operations would have been
given greater emphasis, based on the Bank's cumulative experience in dealing
with parastatals, this was not the case at the time of appraisal in 1978.
Under the circumstances, the managerial and operational initiatives taken
under the project were appropriate. The decline in the United States' sugar
quota and the world sugar price collapse could not have been foreseen
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07). However, in retrospect, with the benefit of
cumulative experience with public sector operations in the Dominican Republic
and elsewhere, too much faith was placed in both CEA's and the Government's
willingness and/or ability to pursue economic efficiency.i' It is important
4/   Even in 1978 (project appraisal) the CEA's financial position was not
favorable because of the steep decline in international sugar prices and
a slowdown in operations resulting from various political factors. The
resulting loss was further aggravated by the export tax on sugar, the
subsidy for the Dominican Electric Corporation (CDE) and other similar
burdens unrelated to the CEA's operational expenses. The private sector
companies also absorbed these taxes and subsidies, but presumably were
in a stronger financial position due to their lower unit cost of
production. CEA was also required by the Government to carry excess
labor and provide positions as mill managers to political figures,
resulting in weakness in the CEA management.



to recall that the project was designed as a least cost approach to lower the
risks of mill breakdown and transportation stoppages and did not attempt to
satisfy all of the investment needs of the mills. In hindsight, it was a wise
decision to limit the project's undertakings purely to those of a "rescue"
nature. Given that the final outcome of the project has been less than
favorable, a more ambitious program could only have been worse (paras. 6.01-
6.05).
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.01      Effectiveness.  The loan became effective on June 15, 1982, 32
months after loan signing, and after several extensions. The delay was caused
by the refusal of the Dominican Republic Congress in November 1980 to ratify
the cofinancing loan with a consortium of private banks!' (in part because of
political reasons and a dramatic increase in international sugar prices in
1980, which was thought to render the additional funding not necessary). As
the period for declaring effectiveness dragged on, it became apparent that the
CEA's financial condition was deteriorating because of a shortfall in sugar
cane production and absence of the cofinancing portion intended to convert the
CEA's short-term debt into medium-term debt. Under the circumstances, the
most reasonable approach was to assess priorities and reduce the project
scope. This was done on September 17, 1981 when several amendments to the
loan documents were made, i.e., deletion of the cofinancing; amendment of
financial covenants to take into account measures the CEA and the Government
had agreed to adopt to improve the CEA's financial status (such as relaxation
of the previously agreed minimum current ratio, from 1.5:1 to at least 1:1;
and retention by the CEA of 36% of surplus normally passed on to the
Government in the form of a dividend, until current ratio reached 1.5:1).
Other amendments were made to take account of the delays in project start-up
(such as closing date extension from June 30, 1985 to June 30, 1987). The
factory and transportation components remained much the same as at appraisal.
The agricultural component was reduced significantly, although the cost of the
component was only to be about 15% less than the appraisal figure. The pilot
mechanization subcomponent was deleted (Table 5).
5.02      In retrospect, the deletion of the cofinancing loan was a mistake,
especially in light of the deteriorating financial condition of the CEA, due
in part to the fact that CEA continued to borrow short-term from commercial
5/  A condition for effectiveness of the Bank loan was that the Borrower (CEA)
sign a private bank loan of the order of US$90 million, of which
US$20 million was to cofinance the project (the transportation
infrastructure), the remaining US$70 million was mainly to restructure the
CEA's short-term debt, and thus improve its financial position over the
1980-82 period. After 1982, CEA was expected to return to a sound
financial position, assuming the forecast increases in world sugar prices
and improved managerial and productive efficiency would be realized. The
condition for a cofinancing loan was finally eliminated in 1981.



banks to pay off an ever increasing debt. In 1983, the Bank agreed with the
Government's request for the reinstatement of cofinancing, provided the CEA
adopted measures to ensure financial viability. However, the CEA was not able
to obtain a cofinancing loan either through a consortium of private banks
(headed by the Caisse National de Credit Agricole de France), nor through the
suppliers themselves. This was primarily because of the prevailing political
and economic environment within the country. At the same time, the lack of
the cofinancing and deteriorating financial situation of the CEA should have
been sufficient justification for a greater reduction in project scope at
reappraisal. In light of the declining world sugar prices (by 1981 prices had
dropped about 42% from 1980's high, and continued to drop a further 50% in
1982), the prevailing conditions of political and economic constraints facing
the CEA, the weakness of CEA management (para. 4.03), the delays in project
start-up, and the reluctance of the Government to take corrective action on
problems facing the CEA, a question remains as to why the Bank, at the time of
project reappraisal, did not seek more changes in design.
5.03      Implementation Period.  It was estimated at the time of reappraisal
that the CEA would disburse the loan in five years and that the closing date
would be June 30, 1987. In fact, the project was closed on June 30, 1991,
four years later (or six years after the original closing date), after four
further extensions-'. Prior to the first extension (in June 1987), strong
concern was expressed by Bank technical staff as to the economic viability of
the project and a recommendation was put forward to cancel the loan at that
time. However, based on Government's stated commitment to the rationalization
of the sugar industry, and in the interest of maintaining good country
relations, Bank senior management did agree to the loan extension (paras. 5.08
and 8.02).
5.04      The project experienced difficulties from the outset and had, in
fact, been a problem project for many years. Because of the CEA's poor
performance, including non-compliance with the loan's financial covenant
(para. 6.07, Table 4), and the Government's unwillingness to deal with the
company's financial situation (i.e., capitalize the CEA at times when the
current ratio of 1:1 was not met, and when world sugar prices were down), the
Bank suspended disbursements under the loan on April 2, 1986. Such suspension
of disbursements was lifted on May 4, 1987, based on the new Government's
launching of a far reaching program of financial and structural reform aimed
at putting the CEA on a sounder financing footing. The measures undertaken by
6/ The four loan closing extensions were from June 30, 1987 to June 30, 1988,
to June 30, 1989, to June 30, 1990, and to June 30, 1991. The rationale
for the first two extensions was to allow CEA time to acquire equipment to
rehabilitate two of its sugar mills. The rationale for the last two
extensions was to allow time to complete the works (due to some delays in
contract negotiations and installation of equipment) and make final
payments to foreign contractors.



- 6 -
the Government21, at the time, were seen as a clear and courageous departure
from past policies, and underscored the Government's seriousness in dealing
with the CEA's difficulties. A countrywide suspension of disbursements that
had also come into effect, due to overdue payments, lasted a further three
months (November 15, 1990 to February 1991). Disbursements were resumed when
the Government cleared its arrears with the Bank, the Fund, and the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB).
5.05      In July 1987!', the project was again restructured involving:
(a) a change in the project description to expand the list of cane milling
equipment eligible for financing; (b) deletion of one item, Equipment for
Rehabilitation of the Sugar Cane Transportation System; and (c) use of savings
from this item, together with undisbursed funds from the Consultant Services,
Goods and Computer Leasing, and Unallocated Categories, to finance cane
milling equipment.
5.06      Prolect Risks.  According to the appraisal documentation, the risk
most likely to affect the project's economic rate of return was the
possibility of the world price of sugar being lower than that projected by the
Bank. Indeed, this was a valid concern, with the world price of sugar
dropping to 0.13c/kg for 1984-86 (versus the projected price of 0.40c/kg)21.
The drop in price negatively impacted on the project's economic rate of return
at project closing (para. 6.09). Another risk cited at appraisal was the
possible lack of a continuing long-term capital investment program, of which
the proposed project was a first stage operation. This also eventuated, with
the CEA, at project closing, still lacking a continuing long-term capital
investment program. In part this was due to unprofitable operations, but even
when profitable (in only three years), the Government siphoned off CEA profits
and transferred them to finance other public investments (para. 6.08).
ZL The financial measures included the sale of 1,760 ha of land, price
increases for domestic sugar from an average of 8.75 to 9.50 US cents per
pound, write-off by Government of US$26.5 million that CEA owed to the
Central Bank, and payment to CEA of another US$3.1 million that it was
owed by the illiquid Price Stabilization Institute. Operational reforms
included improvements of CEA's management team, closing down of two of
CEA's twelve sugar factories, layoffs of 11,400 staff, reduction of sugar
production, and a program of diversification away from sugar.
8/ Other loan amendments included amendment to Schedule 1, i.e., reduction in
allocation to Category 2a and equivalent increase to Category 2b
(November 1984); and further reallocation of loan proceeds (May 1989).
9/ SAR projected price for 1984-86 was .40c/kg (in 1978 prices) and for
1987-90 was projected to be .31c/kg. The actual prices for 1984-86 and
1987-90 (in current terms) were .13c/kg and .29c/kg, respectively.



5.07      Unforeseen Factors that Affected Project Implementation.  The slow
start-up in project activities (para. 5.01), the lack of and untimely
provision of Government counterpart funds (due to the lack of CEA
profitability and the deteriorating financial situation of the country, para.
5.04), the Government's interference in CEA operations (para. 6.08), delays in
contract negotiations (para. 10.01), the reduction in the United States' sugar
quota (para. 6.08), and the drop in world sugar prices all negatively
influenced the project outcome. The weak macroeconomic management of the
country, together with political instability and the Government's lack of real
commitment to the implementation of the project, resulted in a very
unfavorable environment for project implementation.
5.08      Decisions that Were or Were Not Taken that Most Affected Prolect
Implementation. A question remains whether the Bank should have agreed to the
extension of the loan in 1987 (para. 8.02) in view of the precarious financial
and political conditions that prevailed during project implementation.
Knowing that the country had never promised to divest part of the sugar
industry to the private sector, for the Bank to continue to support a non-
viable public sector operation would appear to have been in conflict with the
somewhat revised Bank philosophy of reform of state-owned enterprises at the
time. The World Development Report of 1987 recommended divestiture of such
public enterprises. Indeed the need for more radical actions to address the
problems of the sugar subsector was recognized at the time and preparation was
begun on a sugar subsector adjustment loan (discussions begun in early 1987)
designed to leverage rationalization of the sugar industry in the Dominican
Republic. However, because of lack of agreement on a macroeconomic framework
at the time, the sugar subsector adjustment operation was dropped.
6.   Prolect Results
6.01      For the most part, the project's development objectives were not
met. While there were substantial recommendations by consultants for
improving the organization and management of the CEA, the implementation of
such were very limited. In technical terms, worn-out equipment has been
replaced in four sugar mills, and installation is ongoing in two of the mills.
There has been partial completion of irrigation and drainage studies for the
Barahona sugar mill, and completion of studies for reducing the cane area with
some resultant crop diversification. Little was achieved by way of cane
transportation improvements. With these limited achievements, CEA's overall
operational efficiency and financial situation had not improved by loan
closing (paras. 6.01-6.05 and 6.08-6.10). Numerous factors, both internal and
external to the country, hampered the project reaching the objectives set. A
summary of the major accomplishments for each component is set out below
(Table 4).
6.02      Sugar factories.  This component was to rehabilitate six sugar
factories by replacing worn-out equipment, with major works in Ozama, Boca
Chica, and Rio Haina sugar factories. Minor works were to be done in
Consuelo, Quisqueya, and Barahona. Project implementation delays and problems
encountered by both the CEA and the contracting firm respectively led to
injection water pump equipment not being purchased, and the contract for cane



- 8 -
yard equipment for Consuelo was canceled. Despite the numerous contracting
difficulties (paras. 6.07 and 10.01), rehabilitation of equipment in some
mills has been carried out: installation of turbines and transmission for
Boca Chica and Rio Haina; installation of electrical distribution facilities
in Ozama; mill and yard equipment for cane in Ozama; new boilers for Ozama and
Consuelo (according to the CEA, however, as of July 1991, 95% of equipment is
in the country but only 15% of the installation is completed&'°); and
construction of a building for the factory offices and laboratory, and the
moving of a locomotive shop in the Ozama mill.
6.03      Transportation.  This component was to rehabilitate railway tracks;
purchase 150 cane hauling cars, three locomotives, telecommunications
equipment and spare parts; and construct a fully equipped rail car repair
shop. For the rail lines, the topographical and soil studies were completed.
Technical reports were prepared for traffic, fixed installations, operation
and control centers, operation of the terminals, programming of trains,
rolling stock, arrangements for spare parts, training of personnel and
supervision, and organizational models and procedures and standards for the
maintenance of the locomotives. The technical specifications for the
telecommunications equipment were also prepared, and courses for engineers,
supervisors and foremen of the CEA were conducted on principles for operation
and maintenance. However, despite the contracting firm providing
recommendations (broken down by small, medium and large investment) for
reconstruction of the railways system, operation of the railways, maintenance
and repair of the cars, and maintenance of the locomotives, the CEA was not
able to obtain a cofinancing loan to carry out the recommendations
(para. 5.02). Therefore, little has been accomplished under this component,
with transportation for the mills now in a state of disrepair.
6.04      Agriculture.  This component was to carry out irrigation and
drainage studies, a cane area reduction program, and a pilot research program
for payment to outgrowers based on sucrose content of cane supplied.
Irrigation and drainage studies of the Barahona sugar mill were partially
completed, and provided good information on the requirements (Table 9). Due
to lack of counterpart funds, the topographical survey, construction of some
irrigation canals, and development of the pilot zone for an internal drainage
10/ Telephone conversations in December 1991 with a general contracting
company in Santo Domingo, hired by the CEA, indicated the installation of
the remaining boilers for Ozama would be carried out shortly.



-9-
scheme were not begun"/. In the CEA's view the training of technical and
non-technical staff has not only contributed to better management of
irrigation water at Barahona, but to an increase in the number of irrigation
schemes. Cane yield increases are expected to increase as a result of such.
For the Cane Area Reduction Program, over 12,000 ha have been diversified to
other food crops. A Program of Varietal Research was strengthened. The
Extension Program had some activities, such as establishing demonstration
trials. Results were reportedly good with technology being developed and
extended for incorporating cane trash into the soil, improved weeding and
fertilizer application as well as improved varietal use. The pilot research
program for payment to outgrowers based on sucrose content of cane supplied
was not begun.
6.05      Organization and Management.  This component was to provide
consultants to assist the CEA in reorganizing and improving the management of
its headquarters and estates in the areas of mechanizing data processing,
personnel policy, training, and planning of production. The consultants have
come up with a substantial number of recommendations for improving the
management of CEA operations. Numerous reports'1' have been prepared by the
consultants which should provide a good base for improved organization and
management of the CEA. By project closing, however, CEA's implementation of
the consultants' recommendations has been very limited. Nevertheless, a
training department was set up in 1984, providing some training for CEA staff.
Approximately 160 courses for about 2,800 participants were provided by a
technical training institute (INFOTEP) to the CEA personnel during the period
1984-1990. These courses primarily focused on Supervision Techniques;
Security in CEA Supervisor's Work; Operation, Function and Maintenance of the
Tractor; and Preventive Maintenance of Agricultural Equipment. Technical
assistance was provided in accounting, control of operations, reporting and
the provision of computerized equipment in six sugar factories. The
consultants have developed employment and salary policies, the latter
emphasizing incentives to attract qualified staff. However, no action on
these policies has yet been taken by the CEA. Also not yet implemented by the
11/ The CEA has, however, begun some limited activities using their own
resources, such as continuing the studies in the pilot zone with
technicians of the Duquesa Experimental Station; purchasing machinery
for land leveling using laser equipment; modifying the length of the
irrigation furrows (based on consultant findings in the pilot zone); and
construction of one of the proposed irrigation water reservoirs. In the
pilot zone where land leveling has been undertaken, there is evidence of
considerably increased productivity (yields of between 130 and
160 mt/ha in the first harvest compared to before-project situation
average of 50-55 mt/ha for all CEA's sugar mills).
12/ Covering topics such as Organization Planning, Human Resources,
Statistics, Provisional and Permanent Financial Control, Electronic Data
Processing, and Global Resources of the CEA.



- 10 -
CEA are recommendations by the consultants for: (i) a system for planning and
evaluation of the CEA activities; (ii) a system for maintenance of equipment,
spare parts, work orders, maintenance requirements; and (iii) computerization
of the accounting system, including the annual budget, and the field offices.
6.06      Prolect Administration.  Total Project cost was US$62.23 million,
90Z of appraisal estimate (US$69.2 million). Of note is the fact that the
purchase and installation of equipment in the sugar factories was 78% of
overall costs (in comparison to the appraisal estimate of 36%). Higher costs
resulted from delays in equipment delivery and installation, and some contract
disagreements. Transportation rehabilitation was only 3% of project costs (in
comparison to the appraisal estimate of 25%). The higher costs for
rehabilitation of the sugar factories, together with CEA's inability to obtain
a cofinancing loan (paras. 5.02 and 6.03) have led to lower expenditures for
this component (Table 5). Loan disbursements took place over a period of ten
years versus the appraisal estimate of five years. As of project closing
(June 30, 1991) US$33.35 million has been disbursed from the US$35.00 million
loan, leaving an undisbursed balance of US$1.65 million which was canceled
effective December 31, 1991 (Table 3).
6.07      Procurement of factory equipment encountered serious delays in
executing the contracts (para. 10.01). A major procurement issue arose in
1987 when a contracting firm queried the bid evaluation procedures and
selection process when the CEA awarded a contract to another firm. Bank staff
carried out a thorough reassessment of the bid evaluation made by the CEA and
found that CEA was correct in its bid evaluation and award of the contract.
Audit reports were generally delayed by about six months and, in some cases,
highly qualified by auditors. The CEA did not fully comply with Covenant
Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement, i.e., maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of 0.8:1 as of September 30, 1982, and not less than
1:1 every September thereafter, and Section 2.02(b) of the Guarantee
Agreement. Because of non-compliance the Bank did, in fact, suspend
disbursements under the loan (para. 5.04, Table 10).
6.08      Financial Assessment.   At appraisal, it was estimated the CEA
would return to a sound financial position by 1982, assuming the forecast
increase of world sugar prices as projected by the Bank and the improved
managerial and productive efficiency expected to result from the project.  The
appraisal estimate for the financial rate of return (FRR) for the CEA was
19.52.  However, the United States' sugar quota reduction by 70Z from 1978 to
1987"', the lack of improved managerial and productive efficiency (paras.
6.01-6.05, 6.09-6.10, and Table 4), Government interference in CEA
13/ The United States' sugar import quota declined from 540,000 metric tons
raw sugar in 1978 to 160,000 metric tons in 1987. In September 1990, the
United States increased its sugar import quota to 292,010 metric tons for
the year from October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991. The quota for the
21 months ending on September 30, 1990 was 460,997 metric tons.



- 11 -
operations141 and lack of financial support, together with the drop in world
sugar prices (para. 5.06), have contributed to the CEA remaining in an unsound
financial position. The FRR for the CEA at project closing is negative, CEA
is insolvent and, under the prevailing country conditions, has little prospect
of ever becoming profitable. Indeed, the CEA's finances have long been a
source of concern for the Bank. Not only has the CEA recorded a loss in nine
out of twelve years during the project period 1979 to 1990, but also it has
maintained/exceeded the minimum liquidity ratio of 1:1 in only six of the
twelve years (Table 7). CEA still lacks an adequate program of capital
replacement and maintenance (para. 5.06).
6.09      Economic Assessment.   At appraisal, the internal economic rate of
return (ERR) for the entire project, including the outlays for agricultural
and management studies, was estimated at 25%. The quantified direct benefits
of the project were to be: (a) lower unit costs of sugar production for all
the CEA operations from US$0.235/kg in 1978 to US$0.198/kg in 1989;  and
(b) increase in production of sugar by 74,000 M.T (12%) by the sixth project
year.  As indicated in Table 8, the unit costs have increased by 79% and sugar
production has decreased by 70%, from SAR estimates. Consequently, the ERR
for the project overall is negative. Influencing factors for the negative ERR
were the drop in world sugar prices, cited as a risk at appraisal (para.
5.06), as well as a significant reduction in the preferential U.S. sugar quota
of 70% from 1978 to 1987 (the U.S. sugar quota allocation rebounded in 1988
but was still approximately 57% below the 1978 figure), continued poor
management of the CEA, Government interference in the CEA operations and lack
of financial support, and delays in project start-up and contract
negotiations.
6.10      Proiect Impact.    The sudden decline in the world price of sugar,
along with the reduction in the United States' preferential sugar quota, and
other factors outlined above (paras. 6.08, 6.09) have influenced the negative
impact of the project. At project closing, not only has sugar production and
cane milled decreased by 66% and 53% respectively, from SAR without project
estimates (Table 8), but there has been a drop in cane yield also. Sugar
exports have decreased by 75% from the SAR estimate'1 (Table 8), with the
14/  Government interference involved the reinstatement of an export tax (36%
on gross sales); the requirement that the Dominican Congress approve
long-term loans; the requirement that the CEA distribute profits to the
Government and the CEA factory workers; the application of a multiple
exchange rate system whereby CEA received less than the full value of its
export earnings; the practice of making subsidized loans to outgrowers;
and the turnover of management common to Government-owned companies. All
these factors hurt the CEA's performance.
15/ The project was expected to help maintain the volume (at appraisal) of
the Dominican Republic's main export by avoiding major breakdowns in
sugar production and transportation due to deteriorated equipment.



- 12 -
CEA's contribution declining from 60Z (1979) to 30Z (1990). Clearly, in
economic and financial terms, the project is not viable. However, the
purchase and installation (the latter still ongoing) of replacement equipment
(such as turbines, transmission, boilers) for four mills will provide the
technical basis for the CEA to develop operational efficiency.
6.11      Private sector operations, primarily Central Romana, filled the
gaps created by CEA in sugar production and exports. Central Romana, in 1990,
produced 48.1% of the country's sugar (versus 33.3% in 1979) and contributed
61.1% to sugar exports (versus 32.4% in 1979). This was despite maintaining
nearly the same area as in 1979, i.e., one-third of the CEA cane area. The
Vicini Group, in 1990, produced 4.3% of the country's sugar (versus 7.5% in
1979) and contributed 9.1% to sugar exports (versus 7.4% in 1979). The drop
in both its sugar production (by 61.9%) and its exports (by 37.6%) as compared
to 1979 levels resulted from a shift to livestock and other crops.
7.   Prolect Sustainability
7.01      Clearly, in terms of financial, economic and institutional
viability, the project is not sustainable under the current scenario.
However, equipment for two mills has been installed and other equipment is in
the process of installation (para. 6.02). Sustainability will require
substantial changes in key policies (economic, financial and institutional)
and further strengthening of the organization and management of the CEA.
Given the Dominican Republic's performance record for parastatals,
privatization in conjunction with full deregulation of the industry offers the
only viable option for the sugar industry. Sugar continues to play a key role
in the Dominican Republic's total exports (1990, 19.4%, and projected for
1991, 25.9%).
8.   Bank and Borrower Performance
8.01      Bank Performance.  The Bank showed a good deal of support to the
Borrower during the period from loan signing to effectiveness. According to
the CEAL', some staff went beyond the call of duty to assist in the
preparation and basic documentation. During the period 1986/87 (disbursement
suspension) and through to 1991, Bank focus was on compliance with the
financial covenants, emphasizing the importance of the CEA's financial
viability, and procurement issues. Project supervision was frequent with an
average of two missions per year, and averaging 22 staffweeks per year. This
is almost double the average staffweeks for the LAC Region FY91 (Table 11).
The missions fielded were technically strong and there was staff continuity
between missions.
8.02      As highlighted previously in this report, the Bank placed too much
faith on the willingness and/or ability of both the Government and the CEA to
achieve economic efficiency. With Government interference and the
16/ See the CEA's Project Completion Report of September 1991.



- 13 -
deteriorating financial condition of the CEA, a question remains as to whether
the Bank should not have, in retrospect, redesigned the project substantially
and/or not agreed to extension of the closing date in 1987. Indeed, during
the Fall 1986 Project Implementation Review, the Regional Vice President
endorsed the implementing division's recommendation that the loan be canceled
as of October 31, 1986. Nevertheless, Bank Senior Management, based on
findings of a high level mission in May 1987 and evidence of the Government's
intention to prioritize the rationalization of the CEA, went ahead with the
loan extension in 1987. Such decision to extend the loan may have, in fact,
hurt rather than helped the country171, through the Bank's acquiescence to the
Government's continued support of non-viable investments. The subsequent
extension of the loan closing date in 1989 was predicated by the terms of the
1987 extension. CEA had begun quite major procurement contracts and the 1989
loan closing extension was necessary to allow completion of such.
Nevertheless, the extension was held up until CEA fully complied with the
conditions laid down at the time of the 1987 loan closing date extension.
8.03      Borrower Performance.  The underlying reason for the CEA's weak
performance, and the less than satisfactory project outcome, has been the
CEA's highly politicized structure and operations. Clearly lacking throughout
the life of the project has been Government's commitment to ensure the CEA's
financial and operational viability. There was a brief period during project
implementation (1986-87) when a new Government appeared committed to the
objectives of the project, but the commitment subsequently faded.
Nevertheless, CEA's management did show considerable resiliency and was eager
to explore options with the Bank to rationalize its operations. Throughout
the difficult implementation period, the Bank continued to work closely with
CEA's staff.
8.04      Lessons of the Proiect.  This project experience is a story of
broken promises (by the Government) and wishful thinking (on the part of the
Bank). The "rescue" operation has not been successful in part due to external
factors (decline in both U.S. preferential sugar quota for the Dominican
Republic and of world sugar prices). Nevertheless, internal factors to the
country (primarily lack of Government commitment to the project and inadequate
and untimely counterpart funding) led to the less than satisfactory project
outcome.  The question remains for the Government, even more so than in 1978,
as to the viability of the public sector sugar industry in the Dominican
Republic. The following two major lessons were learned from the project:
(a)  public and private sector activities should always be explicitly
considered. Nevertheless, cumulative Bank experience in the
Dominican Republic and elsewhere shows that restructuring of public
sector enterprises, with a view to making them more efficient,
usually is not successful. Divestment, through instruments such as
outright sale, management contracts, joint ventures and other forms
of partial privatization, have been shown to be more effective. In
17/ This is the view of the CEA (see the CEA's Project Completion Report of
September 1991).



- 14 -
some cases, liquidation of the state-owned enterprises is
necessary. The lesson from this project strongly suggests that the
Government of the Dominican Republic should embark on a
privatization program for its sugar holdings; and
(b)  when there is a consistent pattern throughout project
implementation of Government not meeting agreed actions, Government
commitment should be called into question and actions taken.
Country relations are not served in the medium/long-term by failure
to take hard decisions. The Bank should have canceled this loan
earlier when it became evident that counterpart funding problems
and lack of Government commitment would very likely persist (para.
8.04).
9.        Project Relationship
9.01      In spite of the many issues that arose during project execution,
the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower (CEA) was cordial and
constructive. While it may have seemed to CEA that an inordinate amount of
time was focused by Bank staff on financial issues, there is justification for
such emphasis since the underlying rationale for CEA's sustainability of
operations was, in fact, its financial viability.
10.       Consulting Services
10.01     Success of the project was dependent, to a large extent, on the
effectiveness of the selected contractors for equipment purchase and
installation and civil works, especially for the rehabilitation of the sugar
factories and the transportation system. Unfortunately, some major problems
were evidenced with the hiring of the several contractor firms and inevitably
resulted in the project's less than satisfactory outcome. Such problems
included major delays in the delivery of equipment by some of the contracting
firms; contract disagreements; inadequate supervision and control by some
contracting firms, communication difficulties with subcontractors; and delays
in payments to some contractors by the CEA (para. 6.01). When major contracts
were ready for approval in 1985, the suspension of disbursements in 1986 (due
to non-compliance with financial parameters) delayed the process by more than
two years.
11.       Project Documentation and Data
11.01     The project's staff appraisal report has proven to be of use for
the implementation of the project. No deficiencies in the document have been
reported by Bank staff or the CEA's staff implementing the project.
Supervision reports generally addressed the key issues.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has submitted a full PCR which is available in the LAC
files. For purposes of this report, the descriptive sections have been excluded
from the Part II submission.   This is the Borrower's unedited product, with
contents not attributable to the Bank.



- 16 -
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation and
its Development Impact on the Project
iii.      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
01.       The project for the Rehabilitation of the Sugar
Industry known as CEA/BIRF 1760-DO was financed by the World
Bank via a loan signed in October 1979 for the amount of US$35
million. The CEA and the Central Government of the Dominican
Republic also contributed significantly to the financing of the
project from their own resources. Althought the closing date of
the loan was originally set for 30 June 1985, it was subject to
several extensions due to different problems, with 30 June 1991
being the final closing date.
02.       The principal objective of the project was to improve
the operational efficiency of the CEA and its financial
situation producing a reduction in the cost of production and
the time lost in the factories as a consequence of the poor-
condition of the cane transportation and factory equipment. In
order to meet this objective, the project was directed to 4 main
components: Rehabilitation of the factories in Ozama, Boca
Chica, Rio Haina, Barahona, Consuelo and Quisqueya;
rehabilitation of the railway for transporting cane in the above
mentioned mills except Barahona; the agricultural component,
which initially had the sub-components of rehabilitation of the
irrigation and drainage of the Barahona Mill, reduction of the
cane areas, pilot program for the mechanization of the
agricultural operations and the harvest, and a program of
evaluation of the quality of the cane for the payment to the
landowners; strengthening the Organization and Administration
of the CEA. Due to the severe problems affecting its beginning,
the project was modified via several amendments, formally
beginning in March 1983, under the coordination of the CEA
through its new Project Management.
03.       The results of each component, upon comparing them to
that which was proposed in the Appraisal Report shows the
following: a) The results of the Factory Component vary
significantly insofar as the extent of the terms of reference,
leading to many re-progammings due to non-compliance by the sub-
contractors and the financing problems affecting the CEA. The
time assigned to the engineering works was unrealistic; b) The
final result of the Transportation Component, compared to that
which was initially proposed, was deficient since the required
studies were not carried out, nor was the financing that would
have made the improvement of the railway and transportation
system achieved; c) The results of the Irrigation and Drainage
Study for the rehabilitation of the Barahona mill and the
investigation in pilot areas were in accordance with the



- 17 -
foreseen scope, except that some activities programmed for the
pilot zone could not be totally developed due to the excessively
short time forseen to obtain results that normally would have to
take several years; d) The results obtained in the Sub-
Component of Reduction of the Cane Areas were very limited,
since the time foreseen of 2 years was very little for programs
of this nature, which was aggravated by the fact that the CEA
personnel had scant experience in the carrying out via
management of activities of this nature; e) The results of the
Organization and Management Component were coherent with those
initially proposed, and were even surpassed in the area of human
resources; f) The scope of the Program proposed by the
Consultant for professional preparation covered the expectations
of the initial evaluation, establishing a well-detailed Program
in which the management as well as the farm labor and factory
process personnel were included;  g)  In general terms, the
results of the Programs were in accordance with the terms of
reference, as was the case of Irrigation in Barahona and the
Organization and Management Component, but in the majority of
the other cases, the foreseen Programs did not comply in the
programmed time;   h)  The results in terms of cost and
investment varied significantly, producing cost overruns,
especially in the Factory Component. The investment foreseen in
the Transportation Component was not effected.
04.       An analysis of the relationships of the Central Bank
with the CEA during the execution of the Project show that the
BIRF had a coherent behavior insofar as its tradition of
maintaining the contractual standards of a country in effect
without taking into account the political changes or the
prevailing socio-economic reality.    It is worth noting,
however, that the majority of follow-up missions from the Bank
gave more weight to the financial aspects of the CEA than to the
development of the project itself. The recommendations to take
effective actions for the internal problems of the CEA ignored
the institutional reality of the Dominican Republic, in which
decisions on matters such as the prices of a public enterprise
cannot be taken without counting on the assent of the Executive
Power. Despite this, both organisms were adequately managed in
the institutional framework, with excellent relations being
developed.
A.        INTRODUCTION
A.01      The Project for the Rehabilitation of the State Sugar
Industry was conducted dur1\ng the period 1983-1991, via a Loan
Contract between the CEA and the BIRF known as CEA/BIRF 1760-DO,
which was signed in October 1979 for the amount of US$35
million.
A.02      In this report, CEA presents the results obtained in
each of the components of the Project, the investment made, the



- 18 -
1991, a process would begin of"recuperation of production
volumes reached at the beginning of the 80's; on this basis,
production for 1991 was estimated at '299,830 M.T. until reaching
a volume of 660,771 M.T. of sugar for the year 2001; that was
based on a gradual recovery in the raw sugar yields per ton of
cane milled and the yields in the agricultural area, i.e., an
increase in the estimates of tons per harvested hectare.  In
these projections, The price estimates for the world and
American markets made by the CEA consultant, Mr. Nicolcis Rivera
were used for these projections; for the local market, the
actual prices were used, which turned out ,to be satisfactory,
since they eliminate the middle-men's margins and are much
higher than those prevailing in the world market. As can be
seen in attachment 6-H-li, the profits of the company begin
after 1993, as long as the estimated volumes are achieved,
obtaining an internal rate of return of about 41.21%, with the
profits achieved, the company's obligations with the credit
institution would be met and the remaining flow to attend to the
improvement of the production capacity of the mills and
agricultural activities.  In order to be able to operate with
efficiency and recover the hoped-for production levels,
additional investment would be required to the project funds for
an amount of RD$705 million, i.e., some US$56.4 million, of
which, RD$75 million would be work capital, RD$220 million for
equipment and RD$410 million in factories. The Dominican State
would have to supply some RD$237.5 million in the first three
years, since the remaining contributions would be obtained from
the profits generated by the company. Cf. Attachment 6-H-il,
Table No. 2.
7.       SUSTAINING OF THE PROJECT
7.01     The"project analysis, according to its components,
shows that if short- and medium-term actions are taken to
implement the proposed recommendations, there will be a
significant long-term improvement of the activities within the
sugar industry. The agricultural component alone would have a
significant role in the Barahona Mill. The transportation
component alone would be positive from the training point of
view. The purchase, installation and placing in service of the
valuable equipment in the Rio Haina and Boca Chica mills and the
effecting of civil works and the later installation of complexes
of mills, boilers, cane yards and processing equipment in the
Ozama and Consuelo mills are activities that can influence the
sugar expansion of these mills, as well as an improvement in the
productivity upon modernizing their manufacturing processes. In
the case of the Barahona Mill, despite the financial
impossibility of CEA's placing in execution the 5 year
rehabilitation project recommended by the Consortium that
conducted the studies, the fruits are now being seen. The
leveling of the ground conducted on the basis of new technical
criteria has been reflected in the improvment of irrigation at



- 19 -
the level of lots, achieving an increase in yields. Insofar as
the Organizational and Administrative aspects, all the systems
designed to make possible the administrative modernization have
not been able to be implemented, but as soon as the CEA has the
resources, and social and political circumstances allow it, this
could become reality.
7.02      The factors that could favorably affect the results of
production and exportation of sugar in a reasonable economic
period subsequent to the project would be: a) Increase in the
price of sugar in the world market; b) Increase in the sugar
quota by the United States; c) Increase in the domestic price
of sugar with relation to the production cost and current profit
margins; d) Partial or total privatization of the CEA; and e)
Decrease in the bureaucracy and efficiency in the use of the of
resources. Among the factors could be mentioned: a) Greater-
degree of politization of the CEA; b) Intensification of the
agrarian reform in the CEA land; c) Decrease in the sugar
prices in the world market.
7.03      In order to efficiently maintain the operation of the
mills at levels satisfactory for the external and internal
consumption, in such a way as to meet the long-term goals, the
risks would be: a) Lack of investment in the factories and
agricultural fields due to budgetary problems; b) Improvised
mechanization policy, due to the socio-political pressures to
decrease the excessive use of imported Haitian labor; c) That
the Central Government handle the decision to increase the
domestic price of sugar with political criteria; d) Decrease in
the sugar quote in the preferential American market and e)
Unforeseen breakdown of the equipment and machinery used in cane
processing.
8.        BIRF'S PERFORMANCE
8.01      In the period of the duration of the project (1979-
1990), the Bank had a coherent performance in that which relates
to its tradition of keeping in effect the contractual standards
of a country, without taking into account the political changes
or the socio-economic reality it is going through. The Bank
missions were slightly different depending on the phase in which
the Project wished to be placed; for example, in the period
between the year 1979 in which the contract was signed and the
year 1983 when the Project began, the activity of the Bank was
support, collaboration and concern. Some of the technicians
collaborated beyond their duty to prevent the Project from being
shelved, helping a great deal in the preparation of the base
documents. In the phase of preparing the studies by the
different Consultants, the Bank missions were rather routine and
were limited to looking at the financial health of the CEA, in
like manner the behavior of domestic and external sugar prices
and the production costs, not so much the internal situation of



- 20 -
the Project which, in general terms, progressed adequately. In
the suspension phase of the Project in 1986 until May of 1987,
the Bank missions were hardened with respect to compliance with
the favorable financial conditions. In the re-initiation phase
until 1990, it was quite flexible in the handling of the
Project, without leaving aside its requirements of compliance
with the above mentioned conditions. Since in the termination
phase, the Bank has granted all the facilities so that the CEA
could terminate the Project in the best possible conditions.
The recommendations for taking effective actions on the internal
problems of the CEA left aside the institutional reality of the
Dominican Republic, a country in which no decisions on the
closing per se of the mills nor increasing the prices can be
made without the assent of the Executive Branch, which is very
sensitive to matters that have political consequences in the
heart of Dominican society.
8.02      Although in general, at the level of the Bank
headquarters, there was a sector Coordinator in charge of the
Project and there was frequent telephone communication (up to 2
or 3 times monthly) and there were missions every 6 months, the
latent desire could be felt among the officers of the CEA linked
to the Project that the Bank have a liaison officer resident in
the country permanently; this was because it is not the same to
respond by fax or telehone call from the Washington Office,
perhaps with other technical and bureaucratic commitments, than
to be here in the field, observing and interpreting the
Dominican reality directly. It was always felt that the
technical missions were of high technical quality and always
showed receptivity and support so that the procedures for
receiving and approving the documents about studies and
contracts were facilitated within the Bank, as well as for the
disbursements in the opportune moments. The Bank never applied
pressure for contracting one Consultant in particular, nor did
it involve itself in matters of the internal handling of the
Project. What could be highlighted as a deficiency in the
relationship of the Bank with the CEA is the manner the Bank
estalished for the bidding contest procedures. In the concrete
case of the factory component, in order to judge the contest, 11
steps had to be taken, starting with the bidding period on
through the information of the winning bidder, the whole process
lasting from 4 to 8 (and sometimes 9) months. The bureaucratic
excess of the Bank is not noted, however, in the reports made by
the Consultant, in which there apparently was no deep review. A
failing of the Bank was not re-designing the Project when the
financial situation of the CEA began to worsen due to the low
prices of sugar in the world market; this was in keeping with
the risk foreseen in the Appraisal Report, since the weak
factors of the sugar sector were identified and included in the
Project.
8.03      From the Bank's experiences with the Project, the BIRF
could be characterized as an agency very much wedded to its



- 21 -
norms and procedures when dealing with the signing of pacts and
contracts. It acts in a bureaucratic fashion in the majority of
its decisions, on occasion thinking more of the destination of
the funds disbursed than in the success of the project.  The
relevant conclusions from this experience of the Bank in order
to improve its participation in this kind of financing Projects
are: a) For developing countries such as the Dominican
Republic, the strait jacket of having to appropriate an amount
from its budget, which is generally limited due to its internal
economic problems, should not be imposed; b) The supervision
by the Bank must be more active and effective, with the
presence of an office paid for by it in such a manner that many
problems can be solved without the need of the direct
intervention of the officers from the headquarters in
Washington. Of course, this would be justified in the event
they were handling several Projects in one country or limited.
region as was the case of the Dominican Republic; c) In those
cases in which deep problems are detected in the structuring of
a Project that, far from bringing about good results, could lead
to failure, the Bank must not be too flexible in the granting of
extensions, since, far from aiding a country, rather do they.-
harm it.
9.        BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01      Among the principal strong points of the CEA in the
different stages of the execution of the Project can be
mentioned giving management level to the Office of the Project
so that institutional coordination could be greater, such as
achieving that the GODR took interest in the Project in some
stages. Among the weak points that can be mentioned: a) Lack
of experience for handling the Project;  b)  Lack of resources
for maintaining the technical personnel that had acquired
experience; c) Lack of counterpart funds at the required
amounts and times;  d)  The creation of the DACEA reduced the
level of importance the Project had and, finally, non-compliance
with the commitments with the BIRF, especially related to
cleaning up the finances and the financing of the land-holdings.
9.02      From the time the Loan Agreement was signed in 1979,
the CEA showed great interest in the Project's being initiated
as soon as possible, and thereby it granted great trust and
freedom to the Project Office Personnel so that they take all
the steps necessary to initiate the execution. However, the
fact that it was under the Financial Management gave little
status to the Project. Furthermore, the governmental support
was still not achieved, due to the different viewpoints that
existed on sugar diversification, which did not permit the
prioritization of this Project within the Government Program to
be clear.  Once the Project was initiated in February 1983, the
support of the government and the Executive Director's Office
accomplished advances in the agreement on that which the BIRF



- 22 -
had programmed, although, as is natural, with almost 4 years of
delay. The government support was manifested in 2 forms:
Creation of a high-level commission formed by the Banco de
Reservas, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finances and the CEA
itself to prepare a financial re-structuring plan on the basis
of the RD$182 million owed by the CEA to the Dominican State.
This was completed and executed in its entirety. The other form
of government support was via the creation of the National
Counterpart Fund, according to Decree No. 1575 of 11-11-1983.
In addition, coordination and support of all the other
departments with which problems had occurred previously.
Finally, it can be said of this stage that the Board of
Directors of the CEA gave out several resolutions to achieve
better permanent supervision of the different Technical
Management Offices involved in the Project, due to the
simultaneous execution of several works. It also disbursed
funds from its own resources to meet the counterpart
requirements. In general terms, the components of the Project
were adequately handled.
9.03     After mid-1985, on the eve of the electoral period,
the support of the Government diminished, being reflected also
in the Executive Director's Office of the CEA which, in addition
a change in the office-holder, partially varied its internal
policy. This significantly affected the Project, with the
stipulated conditions by the BIRF of maintaining good financial
health being left unfulfilled, upon suspending the disbursements
in April 1986. The re-initiation of the Project in June 1987
could not eliminate many of the difficulties occurring
previously. The Central Government did not give the due
support, failing in its counterpart outlays and neglecting the
financial aspects of the CEA upon not taking the measures that
would have allowed the institution to resolve many of its debt
problems with the State itself. The wise decision of the
Executive Director's office to sell the Montellano Mill lands to
the Central Bank allowed the institution to meet the clauses of
the Contract with the BIRF. The changes decreed in the internal
organization, creating the DACEA, took away status from the
Project, since the fact that the Executive Director's Office
unloaded onto that structure its execution, concerning itself
more with the daily problems of the season and the sugar
distribution. Thus, the Project could only receive attention
when dealing with very urgent things. It was left in the hands
of the Consultants who controlled the Sub-Contractors who in
general failed to comply with their contracts, claiming energy
problems and scarcity of cement. A large part of the national
personnel who participated in this stage lacked the mystique
characterizing the Project in its initial stage, principally in
the supervision of the field, which accommodated itself more to
the interests of the Sub-Contractors than to those of the CEA,
due to their scant experience and their relatively low salary



- 23 -
level. This situation was aggravated because the foreign
Consultant that assisted the CEA in this stage, despite having
detected the problems, could not communicate with the Sub-
Contractors due to lack of command of Spanish, as with the lack
of compliance by the CEA of the counterpart funds.
9.04      The lessons learned to improve the execution of
similar projects in the future, with or without international
financing, are the following: a) The principal internal
variables of the organization that are weak must be diagnosed so
as to strengthen them prior to the initiation of the Project;
b) The political will of the Executive Power must be present,
so as to obtain sufficient financial resources and to be able to
take management decisions within an adequate framework of
rationality, that takes into account more the increase in
productivity and profitability while not neglecting the social
aspects; c) Greater institutional support must be garnered, so
as to achieve better coordination in the execution of the
activites; and   d)  Labor and salary stability must be
guaranteed within the adequate framework of respect for the
technical and professional capacity in such manner that the
work has an uninterrupted rhythm to the Project's horizon.
10.       RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BIRF AND THE BORROWER
10.1      Initially, the relations between both entities were
excellent, which contributed toward the good progress of the
Project and the approval by the BIRF of the proposals of the CEA
as long as they were not in breach of the terms of the contract.
The problems of differences between both entities began to arise
when the CEA failed in its obligation of maintaining at all
times a relationship of current assets to current debits of 1 to
1. Faced with this problem, the Bank suggested the execution of
financial recovery plans for the Institution but based at all
times on specific actions of the Dominican State to favor the
CEA, as well as the implementation of a broad Diversification
Program in the Agro-Industrial and Energy areas. As is natural,
the CEA was not able to comply with many of these requirements
in the institutional framework in which it was involved, a
situation that persists still. Despite its being an autonomous
State enterprise, inter-governmental bureacratic restrictions
exist that are difficult to overcome in certain circumstances,
even with the CEA itself wanting to do so and this at times is
difficult for any person who is not deeply aware of the
Dominican socio-political medium to understand. The requests
for an extension of the loan term were approved several times by
the Bank in contrast to other Projects in the country, in which
extensions of this kind have been very rare, since far from
resolving the problems, they are worsened, as can be seen in the
factory component, with this finally understood by the Bank upon
its refusing a new extension in 1991.



- 24 -
10.02    Many concerns of the Bank and its requirements with
relation to the administration of the loan and purchases were
always attended to by the CEA efficiently insofar as the
content, but not with the expediency that the Bank had
requested.   Such is the case of the Audited Financial
Statements. In the case of the requests for information on
Consultants, bidding contests, approvals and evaluation of the
contests; everything went normally. All the requests for
amendments and/or modifications that were submitted by the CEA,
the Bank approved them without any obstacle, as for the
extensions of the contracts of the Consultants or normal changes
of one Consultant for another. Insofar as the requests for
funds, the Bank gave them due attention in accordance with its
normal practices; in the first stage of the Project, these
procedures were facilitated according to the pressure that the
Project Management Office applied personally upon the BIRF.
headquarters.
10.03    The main experience acquired by both entities is that
a project cannot be managed efficiently if the Bank manages it
from a distance, since the concrete Dominican reality could be,-
better understood by a Bank officer "in situ" who has at his
disposal the financial and administrative mechanisms to expedite
the process of decision-making. In like manner, the CEA has
understood that to manage efficient projects, it must be
supported by its own structure and its own resources and that
the Central Government must participate only indirectly, so that
with its support, the management decisions that are taken, shall
be accepted without any problem at the international level.
11.      CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1     The consulting services offered through the loan in
general were effective and satisfactory, with the exception of
the transportation component, for which there was a bad
selection of the Consultant to conduct the studies; something
similar occurred in the factory component, since many of the
Consultants and sub-contractors did not adapt to the conditions
designed by the BIRF, which did not fit with the kind of
companies, of efficiency and operational condition similar to
those in the United States business medium.
11.02    The time and man-hours assigned to the initial
evaluation were sufficient in general, although in the case of
the Organization and Administration component, there was the
need of extending the time for the Consultant by 10 months in
order to complete the proposed objectives. Insofar as the
quality of the Consultants, this was excellent in general terms,
although there were exceptions in the Organization and
Administrase tion component, in which there were 2 consultants
of little productivity and with communications problems,
principally in the area of Human Resources. In the case of the



- 25 -
transportation component, the majority of the Consultants lacked
integration with the terms of reference, this being reflected in
the production of reports of low quality and technical depth.
Finally, the consultant services were used adequately in the
study phase of the Project, but not so in the implementation
phase, since this would have required sufficient internal
resources and political will which were never in evidence, from
1987 until the end of the Project.
11.03    The problems that most presented themselves in the
initial services phase of the Project, were those related to the
delay in initiating the work after the signing of the contract,
that took almost 2 months in the majority of the cases, except
for the Consortium ABA-Sercitec-G6mez Santos y Asociados, which
took only 14 days after signing the contract in order to
initiate the work. In the cases of the sub-contractors in the
Factory component, the delay to initiate the work was much
greater due to problems related to obtaining the letters of
credit and the lack of counterpart funds. The response by the
Consultants to the requirements and expectations of the Project
were adequate in the study phase, except in the case of the
Consultants in the Transportation component. In the Factory
component, the expectations *have not been met, since many of the
companies that won the bidding contests failed to comply with
their contracts.   Although the supervising consultant
PAYNE/GAMEI detected the problems the sub-contractors created,
who many times used partners that were not contractors and
therefore did not resspond to technical instructions, and warned
the CEA in the opportune moments. This caused some of the
companies who won the bidding contest to under-value their
costs.
12.       DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01    The documentation available in the Project related to
the legal documents, the information in the preparation of the
Project and the Appraisal Report were valuable aids in the
execution, principally in the study phase. Limitations were
found in relation to the land registry information of the CEA
lands, as well as the legal ownership of these lands.
12.02     The bulk of the required information was able to be
obtained, with the semi-annual and annual reports of the Project
being of great value, as well as the aides memoires of the Bank
missions. The information not available in the Project, which
was minimal, was taken from the interviews held with the ex-
Managers of the Project. In very extreme cases, the Central
Bank was contacted, through the Project Management Office, to
request some information required in the initial phase of the
Project. The only critical aspect related to the documentation
of the Project is that it is dispersed in different offices of
the CEA without any organization, and that the inactive file is
in the Ministry of Agriculture due to space problems.



- 26 -
12.03     The quality of the information included in the
periodical reports, in general terms, is good, as is its degree
of usefulness, although the format is a bit routine and
discontinuous since, as a result of the project's suspension in
1986, the semi-annual reports were not edited for periods of one
year and up to a year and a half. Without these reports, the
editing of the final report would have been nearly impossible.
12.04     For the CEA itself and for similar Projects, a
documentation center must be established as well as a data-base
information system that takes into account: Who generates the
information, its frequency, who the users are to be and the cost
of the system in annual terms. It is also required that said
system be computerized and interrelated with the general data
base system of the Institution to avoid "overlappings".



- 27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOHINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Related lank Loans and Credits 1/
Loan/Credit                                               Year of
Title                            Purpose              Approval       Status                  Comments
Livestock Development Proj.         Increase                        May 1971    Closed in       It vas successful in
(Cr. 245-DO)                       production and                               July 1977       increasing production.
productivity of                                             ovwever, participants vere
meat and milk                                               fey big farmers.  It had
producing farms,                                            institutional problems.
Yaque del Norta Irrig.              Increase production             Jan 1973    Closed in       Implementation took five
(Cr. 352-DO)                        of about 23,000 ha                          June 1981      more years than expected
financing irrigation                                       due to delays in approving
and drainage civil                                          legislation to speed up the
vorks (it vas cofinanced                                    Agrarian reform in irrigated
by 1DB).                                                    areas.  It had institutional
problems.
Nizao Irrigation Project            Increase production and         Jan 1979    Closed in       Delays for insufficient
(Loan 1655-DO)                     productivity of about                        Dec. 1987      counterpart funds.  The
12,000 ha flnancing                                        impact of the project was
irrigation civil vorks.                                    positive.  It had institu-
tional problems.
Cocoa and Coffee DeY. Proj          Improve productivity and        Jun  1981   Closed in       Productivity targets vere
(Ln. 2023-DO)                       incomes of smll-scale                        June 1989      not fully reached but vere
cocoa and coffee producers                                  better than the pre-project
and to increase the exports                                 situation,  It had institu-
of th ee comnodities.                                       tional problem .
1/ Approved before the Sugar Rehabilitation Project. Since Jun. 1981 the Bank has not granted a nev loan in the
Agricultural Soctor.



- 28 -
Part III
Table 2
(Pago I of 4)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
Project Timetable
Item                      Date         Date           Date
Planned      Revised         Actual
------_---_____-----------------------------------------------__------------
Identification                                              1972, 1974
(Executive Project Sumary)                                1975, 1976
Preparation                                                 03/1978
Appraisal Mission                                           10/1978
Loan Negotiations                                           07/16-20/1979
Board Approval                                              09/18/1979
Loan Signature                                              10/26/1979
Loan Effectiveness              01/26/1980                  06/15/1982
Loan Closing                    06/30/1985   06/30/1987   06/30/1991
06/30/1989
06/30/1991
Project Completion                                          06/30/1991



- 29 -
Part III
Table 2
(Page 2 of 4)
ISSUES RAISED AT EACH STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
Identification/Preparation
-    CEA is not free to use its profits as it wishes.  The Government decides
each year which part of the profits made by CEA is to be attributed to
CEA reserves. Thereupon, the net profits are shared 60% to the
Government and 402 to workers.
-    Impressions of CEA as a large organization, complex, and with a
turbulent history. Little doubt that field operations (cultivation of
cane) are badly performed and there is considerable scope for improving
yields.
-    CEA's capability to improve its efficiency and willingness to apply for
Bank financial assistance.
-    The much needed financial streamlining and overall reorganization of CEA
entail sensitive issues linked to personality problems, local politics
and national policies.
-    Need to still ensure full commitment on part of Sugar Board and Central
Bank to project and to introduce required changes to improve technical
and financial management.
-    Key problem in project design:  project basically designed as a "rescue"
operation along the lines of suppliers' credit; however, CEA is required
by Government to carry excess labor and to provide positions as mill
managers to political figures.
Appraisal
Problem areas:
-    Financing plan, as evidenced in weak financial position due to low price
of sugar on international market.
-    Subsidy of US$13 m transferred from CEA to National Electric Co. & Price
Stabilization Institution.
-    Subsidized interest rate charged to outgrowers by CEA, legal maximum
rate is 12% while CEA charges 8%.
-    Need for management improvement at CEA headquarters as well as mills.



- 30 -
Part III
Table 2
(Page 3 of 4)
Loan Committee
-    Due to CEA's weak financial situation, recommended that payment of
guarantee fee be deferred until the first repayment of principal under
Bank loan. Deferred payments to be capitalized at a rate of interest of
10% p.a.
-    CEA arranging cofinancing from foreign commercial banks for a loan of
US$19 m and US$70 m in medium-term loans from private commercial banks.
Loans are to pay off short-term debts and to finance working capital,
maintenance and monitor investments.
Negotiations
-    Cofinancing package with private foreign banks increased from US$20 m to
US$90 m. Private loan agreement execution to be condition of
effectiveness.
-    Condition of effectiveness that Government eliminate subsidy to the
electricity sector and that resources so released will not be used to
subsidize institutions or activities in any other sector.
-    Training program to be set up for CEA staff.
-    CEA to prepare three year maintenance and capital expenditure plans.
-    Covenant to read that for purposes of carrying out its maintenance and
capital investment plans, and to meet its debt service requirements, CEA
would allocate to reserves not less than 40% of the surplus in each
fiscal year.
Implementation
-    Effectiveness date extended several times over 2 1/2 year period, due to
refusal of Dominican Congress to ratify the cofinancing loan.
-    Bank concern in countrywide situation:  delays in approval of loans by
the Dominican Congress, and by a general slowdown in project execution
due primarily to counterpart funds problems.
-    In order to help CEA move to a satisfactory financial position,
Government agrees to domestic price of raw sugar increment and retention
of dividends by CEA.



- 31 -
Part III
Table 2
(Page 4 of 4)
Deteriorating financial situation of CEA primarily due to absence of
US$70 million cofinancing loan, coupled with CEA's borrowing, in
anticipation of cofinancing, of US$70 m in short-term loans to refinance
existing short-term debt and finance certain non-project capital
equipment.
Lower than expected sugar prices and high production costs have produced
substantial losses in CEA, which have been financed by short-term loans
and bank lines of credit. As a result, CEA has been in default of loan
covenants on financial ratios.
No provision in FY85 national budget for Government counterpart funds
for project.
CEA has excessive debt load and no liquidity.  CEA has continued to
borrow short-term loans to pay off debt.
Hanagement performance deteriorating since departure of Project
Coordinator.
Delays in processing contracts-turnkey and procurement.
Counterpart funding stopped in 1990.



- 32 -
Part III
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
CUSIUATIVE ESTIKTZD AND ACTUAL LOAN DISUURSIZTS
----_----------------------------------------------
(US$ .lllo)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----------------------
FYSo    FYs3    FrY2    FY83        FYT4      FY35    rY36   FY37    FYs3        FY39
(06/30/10)
Appraisal Estimate    2.73   19.77   32.42    33.34    34.37    33.00    -              -        -
Actual                  -        -       -          0.7       1.3       4.6    9.5   10.3        12.0    15.8
Actual as I of
Estimate              -       -        -          2         51       131      281    29Z       341      451
90    FY91    FY92
Appraisal Estimate    -          -       -
Actual                  26.1    30.0    33.4
Actual as I of
Estimate             741      361      951
UndLsbursed balance of US$1.65 a cancelled effectlve D.ember 31, 1991.



- 33 -
Part 111
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
Key Indicators 1/
-4A-----        -ctual--_
Indicator                     Appraisal   Average
gatiate   1980-1965  1985164    1986187    19S7168   1986/89   1989190
-_---_..---_-----_-------_---____..------------_--___----.--.__----_--.------__-----__-----_---_------------_------
A.  Operattea   tfficoeucy
1. Factory Dorntime (1)                             6.1         14.72       19.52      23.00      26.87       31.17      29.12
2. Duration of barvest (daye)                       175 5/                    162         1t5        179        214         193
3. Sugar Yield (Z)                                 11.77    abov  10        11.04       9.50        6.79       8.94        9.33
4. Cane Yeld (siUt., honrt
tme/area) 2/                                   4.3           3.76       3.09        3.36       3.12        2.96         Ua
S. Came Klled (million short tone)                  5.6    a*ove 10          4.*6       5.13        4.60       4.35        3.62
S. 1_ Sugar Producod ('000 seort toe)               564            700        464        476         395        364         305
7.  imber of Operating factories                     11             12         12          11         11          10         10
3.  Financial Reslt.
1. Net Profit (Lose) (RDS aill )                              (41.9)   (155.1)       (76.6)      (35.4)     (64.1)   (239.7)
(u6$ Sillio)                           (31.6)      (53.6)     (12.1)       (6.3)     (10.2)   ( 19.2)
2. Current Ratio                                    lot            0.9        0.6         1.4        1.0         1.0        0.6
11 At 0rae or Coealo Sugar Kllls
2/ C3 Average
S3 At Sooe Chbia Sgar Kill



- 34 -
Part III
Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR RTRABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
Project Costs
--S----------
(US$ million)
Appraisal               avised                  Actual              Actual as        Actual as
Item4                                        cEtimte              Zetinae Il                                 I of Appraisal        I of levised
(6179)               (9151)                                                        Estimte
Sugar Factories
squipment                                                  23.46                 23.04                 48.45
Civil Works                                                 0.41                  0.40                  1.02
Enginaering Services                                        0.83                  1.62                  1.54
24.72                25.04                 51.24                   207n           2041
Transportation                      -          -           --
Zquipuent and Materials                                    13.73                 12.24                  ----
Civil Works                                                 3.12                  4.24                  ----
Technical Assistace                                         0.49                  0.92                  1.80
17.34                17.40                  1.80                  S10              101
Agriculture r 
-__________
Baraboo& Irrig & Drainge Studie,                            2.72                  3.90                  3.34
Came Are, 3eduction Progrm                                   2.33                  1.27                 ----
mecbhisation Pilot  reesetcb                                 1.15                  ----                 1.28
Cane  uerose ConteDt Pilot L3aeercb                         0.03                  0                     ----
*.25                 5.32                  4.84                   77n             911
HKaeuent & Orgauniation                                        -                     -
_-  - -- -- - -- - - - - -    
Management Assistance                                        0.83                  2.10                 2.89
CDP  ardere Leasing                                          1.50                  1.50                 1.46
EDP Systm  Engineering                                      0.30                  0.53
2.45                 4.15                  4.35                   1644           1051
50. *3 9             51.4                  62.23
Contiencies                                                  -                     -                     -
Physical                                                    5.10                  4.52
Price                                                      13.14                 11.41
49.22                67.87                 42.23                   900             921
1/ Reflect a cange la preJet seope  nd price adjustuouts as
a rsult ef Inflation wer the 3 yeare sine Board approval
Rachege Rates useds
3D0  3.1126  * 0681 (1965)
rD0  1.0     - 0$1 (1964.63)
AuatS  .7005   V US$1 (1O.)



- 35 -
Part III
Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
Project Financing
Category         CEA/Government         Bank                 Total
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
SARl'   (Actual)    (SAR)   (Actual)    SAR   (Actual)
Sugar Factories      6.89      23.52    25.32    27.72    32.21   51.24
Transportation      23.03       1.34      1.73     0.46    24.76      1.80
Agriculture          3.62       1.26      4.86      3.58     8.48    4.84
Management           0.68       2.76      3.09     1.59      3.77    4.35
34.22     28.88    35.00    33.35    69.22   62.23
Z of Total Project
Cost               49%        46%       51%      54%       100%    100%
1/ Includes cofinancing of about US$20 million



DOMINICAN REPUWIC
SUGAR 5EKAAILITATION PIOJIC
LOA 17160-Do
P9WECT COMPLETION SEPa3?
Audited Cornoliibtmd Financisl Inforutimi for the
CEA at Ctqino of Ech Fiscal Year
(Cuwrrnt MS SilliDos)
.... ... .. ..... ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I x      19       I  x   19        I       x    1921                                            1 I641I 1965jI2 1966                 2        196           I         1969 I9901
tIMlE                  100.00   14U.0  100.00  219.1  100.00  350.0  100.00   238.2  100.00  2u.7  100.00   344.3  100.00  327.8  100.00  307.2  100.00  394.9  100.00  52.0  100.00   77.2  100.00   779.0
Iparating coots         90.14  1¶33.4  73.53   16t.1  62.29  210.0   9. 59   227.7  87.S2   215.9  77.35   266.3  83.19  212.7  107.13  329.1  83.74   330.7  76.12   435.4  62.12   637.1  99.01    771.3
rass Profits             9.86   14.6  26.47   3.0  37.71   132.0   3.57          8.5  12.48   30.8  22.63    78.0  16.81   55.1   7.13   21.9  16.26   64.2  23.88    136.6  17.28    133.1   0.99              7.7
Cast of salet            2.03    3.0   2.05    4.5   1.66    S.8   2.2r    5.4   2.68    6.6   1.80    6.2   2.72    8.9   2.31                7.1   2.66    11.3   1.3$       7.7   0.86      6.8   0.77       6.0
iln. Csts               21.15   31.3  16.70    36.6  14.14   49.S   2.40   48.6  19.94   49.2  16.21    ss.8  28.19   92.4  29.s2    90.7  22.66    89.5  20.59    17.8  19.72   1S3.9  26.34    20.2
Interest                 4.19    6.2   6.s7   14.4   6.86   24.0  11.SO    27.4  10.62   26.2   6.88    23.7  13.12   43.0  11.S2   35.4  10.18   40.2   6.30    47.5   5.00    38.5   4.66                   36.3
Tasas                    2.97    4.4   9.04    19.8  18.77   65.7
Iht Profit (mot)       -2047  -30.3  -790  -1r.3  *3.71  -13.0  -30.60   -72.  -20.75  -51.2  -2.24    -7.7  -27.21   -9.2  -504o   155.1  -19.45   -76.8  **.36    *36.4  -6.32   -64.1  -30.77  -239.
Extrard Inry It_         0.66     1.0   9.58    21.0  13.14   46.0  -S.16  -12.3  -1.99    4.9   2.67    9.2  -2.04    -6.7
Otber Gains or Lasest                                                                                                -36.85  -120.8   3.06    9.40   0.66    3.4  -27.92  -1s9.7  -0.13        -1.0  -26.37  -205.4
Sat Inc_s rw Lea       -190   -29.3   6.94    15.2  -2.40    *o84   35.77   -05.2  -22.74  -56.1   o.4          1.S  -66.11  -216.7  47.43  14S.70   18.59    73.4  -34.28  -196.1  -8o44   -65.0 -571.4   -4S.
Deprclatien              4.93     7.3    2.92    6.4   2.09      7.3   4.57    10.4   3.57    8.8   3.11    10.7   4.09    13.4   5.719   1.90    3.04    12.0   2.64         IS.1   0.45      3.s   0.21       1.6
Cah Gnreted            -14.86   -22.0   4.02    6.8   -.1    -1.1   31.40   74.8  19.17   47.3   3.n4    12.2  -62.02   20933   41.63  27.90  -1555  -61.4  -31.64   -181.0  -7r90   -61.5  -55.06   -429.1             w
Currant Assts           54.45   ISS.3  S9.68   218.2  s9.s5  230.4  61.50   2s0.2  64.13  275.7  45.13  229.9  49.77  311.1  50.06 271.90  7n.SS  673.5  16.19   996.3  80.16   1061.0  69.07  1088.3                  0
lised S Other Assets    45.55  129.90  40.21   14u.o  40.43   1S6.4  38.SO  156.6  35.29   S1.7  54.87   219.s  50.23  314.0  49.94  271.20   29.45   261.2  21.81    218.s  19.82    267.3  30.93   487.4
latota  Jssts          100.00  20s.2  1OO.OO  365.6  100.00  386.1  100.00  406.8  100.00  429.9  100.00  509.4  100.00  625.1  100.00  543.10  100.00  9s4.r 100.00  1.2r6.8  100.00   138.3  100.00  1575.7
Crrent Liabllitias      27.63   71.8  4.01   160.2  47'.9   185.6  70.67  267.S  64.71   278.2  69.24   352.r 101.55   634.8  a.51  480.70   50.42   481.4  76.43   915.9   n.9   1051.6  89.00  1402.3
Long-Torra Debt          8.45   24.1    5.83    21.3   4.40    17.0   4.99    26.3   0.26    1.1   2.47    12.6   3.76   23.5S   4.S3  24.60    1.24    11.6   0.91           11.6   1.49    20.1   S.99       94.4
Total Liebl'tles       36.06  102.9   Ss1.3   180.9  52.38  202.6    .66   307.8  64.97  279.3  71.71  365.3  105.31  658.5  93.04 5          .30   SI.66   493.2  77.34  "9   5   80.96  1091.8  112.19 ir 7.o
Ehilty                  63.92   182.3  48.17   176.1  47.62   184.2   2.43    9.9  35.03   150.6   2.13   14.4  14.01   87.6  27.47  149.20  59.65   S69.S  45.62   556.9  38.95   S2s.1  17.51   272.?
Accuautated Lames                                                                                                     19.32   120.8  20.51  111.40    1.13    10.8  -2.97  -26.  *19.9   -z68.7  30.06   474.0
nat Equity                                                                                                             S.31   33.2   6.96   37.80   48.34   461.S  22.65   269.2  19.02   256.4  12.73   201.3
RATIOS
plqlidity (CA/M)                 1.97            1.30           1.24            0.87           0.9             0.65           0.49            0.57            1.40            1.02            1.03             0.78
Liabi titleslot. Asst           9.36            O.S2           0.52            0.76           0.65            0.72            1.0            o.9             O.S2            0.77            0.81             1.13
liabilliteq.aity                0.S6            1.06           1.10           31.09           1.85           25.37            7.51           3.39            0.87            1.77            2.00             6.52
691361366 lEECh
fimed Asstc/Slaes                1.13            1.58           2.31            1.52           1.60            1.60            1.10           1.05            1.43            2.04            2.82             2.06
Totlt Assots/Soles               0M.5            0.67           0.93            0.60           0.59            0.73           0.S6           o0.3            0.53             0.51            0.59             0.53
PrIIIAILITT
Not Profitlnra                  -0.20           -0.06          -0.04           -0.31           -0.21          -0.02           -0.27          -O.50           -0.19           -0.06            -0.06           -0.31
Xturmn an Total Asets           -0.11           -0.05          -003            *018           -0.12           -0.02           -0.14          -0.29           -0.06           -0.05            -0.05           -0.15
eturn an Sat capital            0.I7           -o.o0          -0.06           -0.29          -0.32           -0.03           -0.31          -0.43          -0.22            -0.06            -0.12           -0.45
Interst _ X aw                   4.4             8.21           9.92           10.74           10.82           8.17           13.62           9.71           10.64            9.84            5.70             4.49
Totat Cat
......... .....___...          .......  ........... _... _............. .................. .... .... ... .. ....................... ................................... ................... ............................ ......... ........ .............................................
Saurces *e  an Auditad Financial Accounts provided by Sorcitec, tnto Dmingl. 1991.
_4   U



- 37 -
Part III
Table 8
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
ECONOMIC ASSESSHENT
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Appraisal Estimated    Actual Results    Difference         Observations
Benefits                            (+incr. by)
(-decr. by)
(a) lower unit         (a) unit costs    +79S         in production unit costs
costs of production    of production                  due to incomplete
of sugar for all       of sugar were                  rehabilitation of
CEA operations from    US$0.355/kg.                   equipment/transport and drop
US$0.235/kg in 1978                                   in world sugar prices.
to USSO.198/kg in
1989.
(b) increase in        (b) produc-        -70S of     in production of sugar
production of sugar    tion of sugar      SAR est.      due to incomplete rehab.
by 74,000 MT by 6th    for 1989/90        of          of equipment/transport
year (or 122 of        season was         684,000     and drop in vorld sugar
production at SAR      207,600 MT         MT          prices.
time) (1978).
(c) maintain 1979      (c) exports were  -75S         in CEu's share of exports
volume of DR export    150,610 MT                     due to inefficiencies
(sugar) 605,110 MT     (1990)                         (financial & management)
(1979)                                                in CEA and drop in vorld
sugar prices and U.S.
preferential import quota.
(d) cane ground        (d) 2,500,000 MT   -572        i in cane ground due to
5,831,000 MT                                          incomplete rehab. of
equipment/transport.
(e) net grinding       (e) 15,991 MT/DAY  -462        in net grinding rates due
rates MT/DAY 29,503                                   to incomplete rehab. of
equipment.
(f) time efficiencies  (f)    70.3S        -232       in time efficiencies due
2                                           + to incomplete rehab. of
91.9                                            equipment/transport.
(g) overall Factory 1/
Yields                 (g)    8.352        -291       in yields due to
11.77S                                          incomplete rehab. of
equipment/transport.
____xtacio_       ugr_ro_cn
I/ Z extraction sugar from cane



- 38 -
Part III
Table 8
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT CoHPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL CEA PRODUCTION
Overall
Cane         Sugar      Net Grinding    Time        Factory!'
Ground      Produced    Rates            Efficiencies  Yields
1,000 MT   1,000 MT    MT/DAY             (Z)              (S)
ApDraisal Estimate
Without Project       5,306       610        25,478           85.6           11.54
With Project          5,831       684        29,503           91.9           11.77
Actuals
1979                  4,003       560.2      25,200           84.1           11.06
1991 (proj.           2,500       207.6      15,991           70.3            8.35
closing)
1991 Actual as Z of
SAR with project        43Z        30%         54S              77%            71%
1991 Actual as Z of
SAR without project   47%          34S         63%              82S            72%
1991 Actual as Z of
1979 actual             63Z        37%         63%              84%            76%
1/ extraction of sugar from cane



- 39 -
Part III
Table 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
STUDIES
.. _-   uu USUUU---_  *------ - 33USUUUUUUUUUUSSUUUUUUZUUZU3UUUURUUUU                               U. _
Purpose as
Defined at
Studies                          AppraisaL                              Status
1. Irrigation L Drainage         Analysis of Barahona                  Partially completed except
Studies                       estate for determination              for topographicaL survey,
of cultivation area required          construction of some
to supply sugarcane to meet           irrigation canaLs, and
installed capacity of mill;          devwlopment of pilot zone for
and investments required to           internal drainage scheme.
stop soil salinization.               Satisfactory and provides
good informtion on the
requirements for acceptable
productivity of sugar crops.
2. Reduction of Cane             Basic information for carrying        Substantisl coopletion,
Areas                         out program, including aerial         except for transport study.
photography, cadastral survey,        Satisfactory, and has led to
soil survey, and transport            diversification.
study.
* zzu32zzS3z38az3333333333  i33U*USUUU3UUZU**SS,   UUEUUUUZUUUUUUUUUU



-40-                          PART III
Table 10
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1760-DO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement Section       Description of Covenant             Present Status
Guarantee 2.02 (b)  Government to provide such         Fulfilled in 06/15/82.
(ii)      funds, as may be required by    Limited in 1990
CEA to maintain the current
ratio in Section 5.07 of the
Loan Agreement.
Guarantee 3.03 (a)  Government through                 SEA could not provide
Secretariat of Agriculture        the technical assistance
Appraisal 4.03       (SEA) to provide technical        so outgrowers contracted
assistance to outgrowers,         private technical
whose cane supply contracts       assistance.
have been terminated.
Loan      3.07 (b)  Reporting to the Bank.             Fulfilled
(iii)
Loan      4.01       Borrower to manage its            Fulfilled
affairs in accordance with
appropriate practices under
experienced and competent
management and staff.
Loan      4.04       Appointment of project            Fulfilled
manager.
Loan      5.06       CEA not to incur any debt         Fulfilled
with a maturity of more than
Appraisal 6.07       one year, if its
consolidated net revenue for
the fiscal year preceding
such incurrence or the
twelve-month period next
preceding the incurrence of
such debt would be less than
twice the estimated debt
service requirements on all
debt (including the debt to
be incurred) in any
succeeding fiscal year.
Guarantee 3.02 (a)  Government to give Bank            The study was presented
opportunity to coment on the   on 02/06/90, and found
sugarcane prices and              acceptable.
domestic sugar prices.



-41 -                    PART III
Table 10
Page 2 of 3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--_
Agreement Section     Description of Covenant           Present Status
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
Guarantee 3.03(b)    Government to make             Some 4,400 ha
Appraisal 4.03      arrangements for transfer of   transferred to AD. CEA
land retired from commercial    has also embarked on
cane production to IAD for     diversification program
resettlement of landless       with private sector.
farm workers, except when
those lands are required by
CEA for research programs or
priority projects.
Loan      4.05     CEA to prepare annually, in    Only one detailed plan
respect of the following       was submitted in June
Appraisal 6.03     three years, plans for each     1983. No overall
of its sugarmills, covering:    information is prepared
(i) maintenance and repair     for the 12 factories.
of the equipment; and (ii)
capital investments. Such
plans to be based on the
expected availability of
funds, and to be submitted
to Bank three months before
the end of each fiscal year.
Loan      5.02     CEA to have its accounts        Fulfilled.
audited for each fiscal
Appraisal 4.07     year, including separate
accounts for project
expenditures. Audit report
to be submitted to Bank
withing six months following
end of fiscal year.
Loan     5.07      CEA to maintain a ratio of      Non-audited financial
current assets to current      reports of CEA are
Appraisal 6.07      liabilities of 0.8:1 as of     showing company
September 30, 1982, and not    deterioration. As of
less than 1:1 every            January 31, 1991 the
September thereafter.          rate was 0.65:1.



- 42 -                       PART III
Table 10
Page 3 of 3
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---_
Loan
Agreement Section     Description of Covenant           Present Status
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
Loan     5.09      CEA to prepare at the           No capital contributions
beginning of each fiscal       were needed at the
year financial projections     beginning of FY90.
setting forth the capital      However, the financial
contributions required to      situation of CEA has
maintain the current ratio     deteriorated.
referred to in Section 5.07
(a).
Guarantee 2.02 (a)  Government to provide funds    The Government is
promptly for project           providing DR$ 59.9
expenditures for which CEA's   million for civil works,
funds are inadequate.          therefore rehabilitation
works would be finishing
one year after the
Closing Date of the Loan.



- 43 -
Part III
Table 11
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                    Page 1 of 2
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
Fn      PREPARATION   APPRAISAL   NEGOTIATIONS   SUPERVISION          OTHER       TOTAL
1974              1.7                                                                 1.7
1975              7.4                                                                 7.4
1976             19.1                                                                19.1
1977              0.8                                                                 0.8
1978             53.6                                                                53.6
1979             13.2         89.4             1.1                                  103.7
1980                                           9.4           30.3                    39.7
1981                                                         25.1                    25.1
1982                                                         10.5                    10.5
1983                                                         41.8                    41.8
1984                                                         23.9                    23.9
1985                                                         24.3                    24.3
1986                                                         19.8                    19.8
1987                                                         40.0                    40.0
1988                                                         11.9                    11.9
1989                                                          9.6                     9.6
1990                                                         11.4                    11.4
1991                                                         12.1                    12.1
0.0
95.8        89.4             10.5          260.7                   456.4
lotusistaffinputs
mbanez



- 44 -
Part III
Table 11
Palo 2 of 2
DOUICAN REPLIC
S00*1 Im1ILITATSI
(LOAN 1760-DO)
PROC  CQMOZTI   IPORT
USX OF BANK ROURCKS
*. 32   ISSIuBS
STAa OF PROEcT               T#i   NaSa Of   DATS IN TE               SMIALIZATIOW              PUIrOU*CKZ        TrP   or
CYCLE           TEa        PUSt           IPI LD                 Y REPIZSD 11       RATU   STATUS 2t  PERLUS  3/
Identificatioe  (Bank)   5172           1            11                     a
10174        1              4                     a
5175         1              S                     0
4176         3              5                    ia
Preparation (FAD)         3178          5            33                 c.,J,g.
Appraisal                 10/7t         *             4                     tij
Supervision
Supervision I             2Ii0          3             1S                  a.e,f.                     1          1
Suparviseio  2            5/80          1             4                      a                       I          1 .
Supervielem 3             2181          3             6                     4d.                      3           P
Superrwisos 4 */12                      4             1S                    4..                      3           V
Supervision 5             51S3          2             12                    d.r                      3           *.3
supervie. 6               7/U3          1             7                      *                       3           P
Supezrysimu 7             4184          1             5                      a                       3           P
Supervision 8             11184         2             8                     a,1                      3 
Superviseion *            4/5           2            12                     *,a                      3           1
Supervision 10            101U6         1             7                      *                       4           FP,
Suprwieion 11             41S7          5             17                   s,64                      3           P.O,p
Supervieo  12             101S7         1            15                      d                       2            11..0
Supervision 13            7/88          1              7                     *                       2           r,K.0
Supervision 14            111/U         1             5                      4                       3           F 40
urviaieu 15               1/18          1            12                      4                       3           r
Suparvieo  16             list          2             7                      ,i                      3           IF
Supervsiiou 17            21/0          2             6                     * i                      3           F.TA
Sup*rVieion 18            8/80          1             6                      1                       3           r.,
Supewieom  1             581t          2            12                     S,k                      3            .P,S1
11 e-agrttulturtst; b.agrro.uamt, *eamo.lett  4-a&ricultur&l *cemmietl *-fiaaucial analyst; f-transport  "ineer;
g-ratlmuyr  op. apoetliat; b euar factory teoologlett i-irri4atiooen *     j.Coeuultante  k.oaratione  assistant.
21 I-preol1  free; 2..darat. probl_ma, 3-eerime problams.
3/ F-P-Jaat.l 11.amagmentp TA-T ealeal Assistance, P-Proeurmeeg O.Otber, eob as delays In proessu, wivtbdrma
appliationuand subsitesto  of adit repprtes poor project progrese  reporting.
R11N2
l.tuasabaae



MAP SECTION






I BFD 14080
77I1                                                              70                                                                MJARCH 1979
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC                                                           %       to1'.-.
MONTE                           PUER                  1'LIER1O PATA                      SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
v,IIovo.,,, 3LATA-Location 'Sugar Estates -  PRT1NP*I Si                                                                                                                                                 C
G~ OcoIPEL                                                                                                                         3q15C   S        LI_E  ~A R A  HNA |'l    ooTbo RA  C
-d.                                                                                                              A.AICA  ~~~~~~~~~ITNAIGaIr-
Cnoo  Aolo   c\arwlto,                                 - B   Pik4 Sl                                -MA                                                                                                   060o _*
a       SAN        JUAN                             CEA N IA  l2A     H               T R ti N i:                                                                                  NA
.od    ye   0       Sobo ,S   .3                                                                                                              0     OlCEpeo
Rf  CRiGUEZ             CETC .                          E      S                                                                            - O  10  20  30                                         . Y Ln
72-A   (    r7Qozo 1,          7o.                                                                            70.                                                               o9-
AN  J U A N  GA          H.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OATO O UGRESAE
J.- d. H.,,..                           L                                           Groag.5.. n Pm  .oaekAo 1M,o  ,a.,S  en                                  I  nglm
AN JUAN                                                                                   M..PkSod frMo.m Ca.Se,. Cn.n  2    a                        ZLPAD  ETR
T, 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y.a oloioRa                                                                                                                                 4Cno
G-d.            A Z L)       ~EISTNG         ..SUGA  [I ESAh.g---       moel oodo.                                                 a.F
L. D.-b.f i1.~~S                                          RI,1                                                   --InnaIIRo.da,o                           onaI
L)  A                                       J_~~~Ie Glfan   ... IS      ILMEER
71   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5O                                                                 SM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.1d1Y



