Document of
The World Bank                       VIL   bu   ;
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2602-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CONSEJO ESTATAL DEL AZIJCAR
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 29, 1979
This document has a resrcted distribution and may be umed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclised without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =   Peso (RD$)
US$1.00            =   RD$1.00
US$1,000,000       =   RD$1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)         =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CEA       -   Consejo Estatal del Azucar (State Sugar Council)
CDE       -   Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad
(Dominican Electricity Corporation)
IAD       -   Instituto Agrario Dominicano
(Dominican Agrarian Institute)
INAZUCAR  -   Instituto Nacional del Azucar
(National Sugar Institute)
INESPRE   -   Instituto de Estabilizacion de Precios
(Price Stabilization Institute)
ISA       -   International Sugar Agreement
LIBOR     -   London Inter Bank Offer Rate
SEA       -   Secretaria de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture)
FISCAL YEAR OF CEA
October 1 - September 30
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUILIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION1 PROJECT
Loan and Project iummary
Borrower:                     Consejo Estatal del Azucar (CEA)
Guarantor:                    The Dominican Republic
Amount:                       US$35 million
Terms:                        Seventeen years, including four years grace at
7.9 percent per annum interest rate. CEA would be
charged a guarantee fee of 2.1 percent by the
Government bringing the effective interest rate to
CEA to 10 percent in U.S. dollars. The Government
would assume the foreign exchange risk of non-dollar
currencies against the US dollar.
Proiect Description:         The project would improve the operational effi-
ciency and the financial situation of CEA, and
would enable the Dominican Republic to sustain its
present level of exports while meeting the projected
increase of domestic sugar consumption. The
project includes four components: (a) rehabilita-
tion of the sugar mills at Ozama, Rio Haina,
Boca Chica, Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona;
(b) rehabilitaticn of a total of about 540 km
of railway track at the above mills, except for
Barahona and the purchase of 150 hauling cars,
three locomotivec, telecommunications equipment,
an initial stock of spare parts and a fully-equipped
rail car repair shop; (c) carrying out of irriga-
tion and drainags studies at Barahona estate, a
cane area reduction program concurrent with the
increase of yielcLs in the cane areas, two pilot
research programEs, one for the mechanization of
land preparation and harvesting and one for payment
to outgrowers ba;ed on grading cane according to
its sucrose content, and (d) provision of technical
services to assist CEA in improving its management
information system, operational and administrative
planning, and per-sonnel administration and train-
ing and its overall organization. The project's
major risk is lower than expected sugar prices.
A sensitivity analysis shows that if revenues were
to be lower than forecast by 44 percent, the
economic rate of return of the project would be
equal to the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in the Dominican Republic.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign    Total
------(US$ Million)-----
Sugar Manufacturing              5.1      19.5       24.6
Transportation                   7.1       10.3      17.4
Agriculture                      2.6        3.7       6.3
Management and Organization    0.4          2.3       2.7
Base Cost                       15.2      35.8       51.0
Physical Contingencies           1.5        3.6       5.1        d
Price Contingencies              5.5       7.6       13.1
Total Project Cost:        22.2       47.0       69.2
Financing Plan:
US$ Million       Percentage
Equivalent     Distribution
IBRD                             35.0             50.6
CEA/Government                   15.0             21.7
Commercial Banks /1              19.2             27.7
Total:                       69.2            100.0
/1 An additional US$800,000 have been obtained by CEA
from private commercial banks for contingencies.
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
Bank FY           1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual             0.2   10.7   16.6    5.6    1.3    0.6
Cumulative         0.2   10.9   27.5   33.1   34.4   35.0
Economic Rate of Return: 25%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 2468b-DO, dated August 29, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO CONSEJO ES2ATAL DEL AZUCAR
WITH THE GUARANTEIIE OF
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION l'ROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Consejo Estatal del Azucar (CEA) with the guarantee of the Dominican
Republic for the equivalent of US$35 million to help finance a Sugar Reha-
bilitation Project. The loan would have a tera of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. CEA would be
charged a guarantee fee by the Government brinlying the effective cost of
the loan to 10 percent in U.S. dollars.  The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk of non-dollar currencies against the US dollar. CEA
has substantially completed co-financing arrangements with foreign commercial
banks for US$90 million to be repaid in 10 years, including a grace period of
4 years, at an interest rate of 1 1/8 percent per annum above LIBOR for the
first 3 years, of 1 1/4 percent per annum above LIBOR for the next 5 years,
and of 1 3/8 percent per annum above LIBOR for the remaining 2 years.
PART I - THE ECONDMY
2.        The last economic report on the Dominican Republic, Report No.
2492-DO entitled "Current Economic Memorandum on the Dominican Republic," was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 11, 1979. Relevant social and
economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican economy experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. In 1974-1977, however,
economic growth slowed to only 5.3 percent per year. In 1978, preliminary
estimates indicate a further decline to 3.6 percent.
4.        Economic growth during 1968-74 was led by exports of sugar and
minerals, by tourism and by a high level of bcth private and public investment.
During that period, the Dominican Republic was able to increase substantially
the volume of sugar exports, start the exploitation of ferronickel deposits,
undertake vigorous industrial expansion (mostly in import substitution indus-
tries), and establish itself in the Caribbean tourism market. The main reasons
for slower growth in recent years are poor agricultural performance, partly as
a result of droughts in 1975 and 1977, the drcip in sugar prices after 1975,
which had a strong impact on domestic aggregate demand, and--more recently--
the depressed world market for ferronickel and bauxite. Manufacturing,
oriented mainly to the domestic market and heavily dependent on imported
intermediate and capital goods, has been particularly affected by the slow
growth of the economy and by shortages of electricity. Industrial expansion
during 1975-78 averaged 4.7 percent per year, compared with the 1968-74
average rate of 13.7 percent.



-2-
5.        The country's balance of payments, like that of most energy import-
ing, primary products exporting countries, has deteriorated in the latter
part of this decade. In 1974 the cost of petroleum imports increased
by over US$100 million and was largely responsible for the deficit in the
balance of payments in that year. Steep increases in the price of sugar
created a surplus in 1975; but since then, sugar prices have fallen drastic-
ally, the demand for minerals, ferronickel and bauxite has been weak, and the
production of coffee and cocoa has stagnated, with the result that the deficit
on current account has widened. The balance of payments has also become
sensitive to flows of capital from private sources which in turn reflect the
perception abroad of factors affecting risk and uncertainty in the Dominican
economy. Because of a de facto dual exchange rate system and the openness of
the economy, these private funds have proven hard to quantify.
6.        An overall balance-of-payments deficit of US$95 million is estimated
for 1978. The deterioration in the balance of payments is due partly to an
estimated increase in the current account deficit from US$264 million in 1977
to US$377 million in 1978 resulting from a continued decline in sugar prices,
a drop in coffee and cocoa prices, a substantial reduction of the volume of
coffee and ferronickel exports; and a decline in net capital inflows. Because
of the massive increase in petroleum prices the current account deficit in 1979
is expected to reach US$480 million. To prevent further loss in reserves, the
Government will be undertaking a much larger recource to medium-term borrowing
from commercial sources, even as official lending increases. The required
commercial borrowing will not be sustainable over the longer term, and the
Government is undertaking some measures and considering others (see para 10)
to strengthen the balance of payments.
7.        Inflation, which was minimal during the 1960s, accelerated in
the 1970s. The average annual increase in the Santo Domingo consumer price
index during 1971-77 amounted to 11.8 percent. This same index indicates a
reduction in the rate of inflation during 1978 to 3.5 percent. This reflected
a fall in food prices following the recovery of domestic food production from
the effects of drought in preceding years and stable housing costs. These
categories account for almost two thirds of the weight in the index, and had
been the sources of upward pressure on prices during most of the decade.
Recent increases in gasoline prices, electricity rates, and wages, will likely
generate more upward pressure on prices during 1979.
8.        Past fiscal policy had been cautious.  In 1968-77, current budget
surpluses averaged 6 percent of GDP (varying between 3 percent in 1968 and
10 in 1975) and financed, on average, 98.5 percent of the Central Government's
capital expenditures. Although the Government's long-term savings performance
was impressive, it was achieved at the expense of extremely low growth of
current expenditures, especially wages and salaries. During 1968-77, average
annual growth of recurrent expenditures was about 1.6 percent in real terms,
and average real salaries of government employees dropped considerably. This
austerity limited the Government's ability to operate and maintain the country's
economic and social infrastructure as well as to attract and retain capable
personnel in government service.



-3-
9.        In 1978, the fiscal situation deteriorated, with an overall Central
Government deficit estimated at RD$114.5 million, mainly as a result of a
lower current surplus of RD$175 million, compared with RD$278.4 million in
1977. The reduction in the current surplus iE attributable to wage increases
granted to public employees, to a reduction of' about RD$40 million in
revenues due to lower value of sugar exports, the temporary suspension of
export taxes on cocoa and coffee, and subsequetnt reduction by 50 percent of
export taxes on coffee.
10.       The Government which took office in August 1978 has announced
its intention to adopt measures to strengthen the balance of payments and
public sector finances, stimulate export growth and eliminate price distor-
tions unfavorable to agriculture and employment creation. Although a compre-
hensive package of economic measures has not yet reached the stage of imple-
mentation, it is clear that the Government has recognized the need for
appropriate adjustments in policy. It has resisted pressure to launch an
ad hoc public works program to palliate the country's acute unemployment
problem. It has proposed legislation that would legalize the parallel
foreign exchange market which has long been supplied by receipts from tourism
and by emigrant remittances and has financed EL growing volume of imports.
The new legislation would allow those engaged in certain export activities to
sell their foreign exchange earnings at the premium offered by the parallel
market over the official exchange rate set by the Central Bank. It is
preparing other legislation to provide incentives to exports and to the
development of agro-industry. Most of these are expected to improve export
performance in the long term. In addition, the Government is seeking to
strengthen the fiscal situation by channelling the plethora of earmarked
taxes and special funds, which formerly put a large part of public sector
resources beyond the allocation decisions of the annual budget, into a single
consolidated fund; and by improved administration of income taxes and customs
duties. Also, measures are being taken to strengthen the autonomous agencies
such as the electricity company, for which an increase in rates was recently
approved, and the sugar corporation, which would be relieved of the burden
of a cross subsidy to the electricity company. Insofar as certain components
of the economic policy package require legislative action, the Government's
ability to secure approval by Congress of the proposed measures will be
critical to success in expanding and diversifying exports and relaxing the
balance-of-payments constraint on economic growth.
11.       Prior Bank reports had traced the weakness in administration to the
extreme centralization of responsibility for investment program formulation
and implementation within the office of the Presidency, and to the low
salaries of government administrators compared to their counterparts in the
private sector. The new Government has now moved to decentralize by giving
to the Secretaries of State greater responsibility for the formulation and
implementation of development programs within their sectors, and has sought
to attract and retain capable staff by increasing salaries.



-4-
12.       The external public debt in relation to GDP was 15.3 percent at the
end of 1978 and debt service was 10.2 percent of exports of goods and non
factor services in that year. Because of bunched repayment obligations, the
debt-service ratio is expected to rise to about 18 percent in 1979 before
declining to 15 percent in 1980. The new Government has indicated that it will
attempt to ^ontinue prudent financial policies as well as the economic reforms
outlined auuve and ameliorate the country's social problems.  Because of low
export prices, the recent petroleum price rise, and the constrained economic
situation there will obviously be difficulties in harmonizing these three
goals. The Bank is involved in a dialogue with the Government over .his issue
and will be monitoring closely its response to the challenges it faces. Based
on the Government's recent actions and statements of intentions, as well as
its relatively low past external debt, we consider that the Dominican Republic
continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
13.       The Bank Group began operations in the Dominican Republic in 1969.
Except for an enclave mining project, lending to the Dominican Republic was
on IDA terms prior to FY1975. Since then lending has been on Bank terms,
including two Third Window operations. Two loans, for a tourism infrastruc-
ture project and a second education project, were approved in FY1975 and two
loans, both on Third Window terms, for highway rehabilitation and maintenance
and population and family health, were approved in FY1977. Two loans, for
irrigation (Nizao Irrigation Project) and tourism (Second Puerto Plata
Tourism Project), were approved in FY1979. Total Bank loans and IDA credits
outstanding.amount to US$101.1 million, of which US$55.6 million are undis-
bursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of the Bank Group loans and
credits as of July 31, 1979 and notes on the progress of ongoing projects.
14.       IFC has financed two operations in the Dominican Republic, an
investment in a cement plant approved in 1974, and a line of credit for
small and medium scale industry approved in 1978. Other projects are under
consideration by IFC.
15.       In the absence of adequate project preparation and of clear
investment priorities, the Dominican Republic has, in the past, failed to
make full use of official long-term external assistance. Total lending of
this type amounted to US$335 million during 1970-77. The present Government
is taking steps (see para 16) which should make it possible to increase the
contribution of the external development agencies to the financing of the
public investment program. IDB became the major source of long-term
assistance to the Dominican Republic after U.S. budgetary support ended in
the late 1960's. Assistance from IDB has included agriculture (credit programs
and irrigation); power (two multipurpose hydroelectric projects and rural
electrification); water supply and sewerage; and higher education. U.S.
long-term assistance consisted mainly of food (PL480) and loans for agri-
culture and health. Long term assistance from IDB for the next three years
is expected to include agriculture (with a major emphasis on agrarian settle-
ment programs and credit), potable water, irrigation and power. AID assistance
would concentrate on agricultural credit, integrated rural development and rural
road maintenance.



-5-
16.       The Government has recently prepared a three-year public investment
program, in which sector and project priorities are defined. The Bank has
established a Sub-Group for the Dominican Republic as part of the Caribbean
Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The public investment program
and the list of projects for which the Governmient expects to obtain external
financing, were reviewed by the Sub-Group at a first meeting in June 1979.
The Authorities expect that this mechanism wi]l assist them in their effort to
mobilize external financing on terms compatib]e with the country's balance-
of-payments constraints.
17.       Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has aimed at strength-
ening the balance of payments; improving social services available to the
lower income groups, particularly in rural areas; improving agricultural
production and land distribution; and strengthening institutions responsible
for major economic sectors. The project now tnder consideration would, by
improving the productivity of CEA, the country's principal producer of sugar,
enable the Dominican Republic to sustain the rolume of its principal export
and major source of employment. The project would also strengthen CEA as an
institution.
18.       Projects currently under consideration for Bank financing address
the country's main economic and social development issues. A Second Highway
Project would continue the road rehabilitation and maintenance program ini-
tiated under the First Highway Project, and would include a pilot component
for the use of labor intensive techniques in l:he construction of rural roads.
Further Bank lending is envisaged for education, health and population, and
agriculture. New areas for Bank lending are being discussed with the Govern-
ment; they could comprise power, rural development and industrial finance.
19.       The Bank Group's share in the Domin:Lcan Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 5.5 percent at the end of
1978. The Bank Group's share of external pub:Lic debt service in 1978 was
3 percent. Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to
about 12 by 1985, while its share of external public debt service would
increase to about 6 percent.
PART III -- THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE SUGAR SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
20.       Agriculture has traditionally been, and continues to be, the most
important sector in the Dominican Republic's economy. About 55 percent of
the country's 5 million people live in rural areas and agriculture provides
employment for over half the economically actLve population. However, rural
poverty remains one of the major socio-econom:c problems of the Dominican
Republic, and per capita rural income averages about one-third of urban
income. In 1978, the sector contributed 17 percent of GDP and 70 percent to
the total value of commodities exported. Agricultural production since 1960
has grown at an average 2.7 percent per year, with higher growth in food crops



-6-
(4.6 percent) and in livestock (4.9 percent). The performance of the sector
over the 1973/77 period stagnated, both in terms of output, due to reduced
production of food crops (3 percent) resulting from unfavorable weather
conditions in 1975 and 1977, and in terms of value, following the drop in
international sugar prices. In 1978, the sector achieved a real growth rate
of 7.2 percent with crops increasing by 6.6 percent and livestock by 8.4
percent.
21.       The quality of soil and water resources in the Dominican Republic
is generally adequate for agricultural purposes. The country has about 2.74
million ha in farm land. Approximately 1.5 million ha are in pasture; about
250,000 ha have been expropriated by the Government and await distribution,
and another 190,000 ha are owned by the sugar industry. The remaining 800,000
ha of arable land, are divided into nearly 300,000 farms that produce most of
the foodstuffs. Small size farms (less than 5 ha) account for 10 to 15
percent of farm land, while large size farms occupy about 60 percent.
Organization of the Sector
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture (SEA) is responsible for overall agri-
cultural planning, as well as research and extension and other general respon-
sibilities normal to an agricultural ministry; land reform is the responsibility
of the Agrarian Reform Institute (IAD); irrigation is implemented and managed
by the National Water Resources Institute (INDRHI); and agricultural credit is
channeled mainly through the Agricultural Bank (BA). Sugarcane production is
controlled by the State Sugar Council (CEA) and two private companies. Other
institutions having a direct effect on the agricultural sector are the Dominican
Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE), which is responsible for regulating
and stabilizing domestic prices for a dozen commodities including sugar, the
National Sugar Institute (INAZUCAR) which undertakes sugar marketing surveys,
assists in international sugar negotiations and supervises compliance with such
agreements and the Dominican Center for the Promotion of Exports (CEDOPEX),
which promotes non-traditional exports.
Agricultural Policy
23.       SEA has prepared a 1978-82 agricultural development plan which
will emphasize production of food crops and development of agroindustry.
To complement this policy, IAD would promote the establishment of agrarian
cooperative enterprises, devoted mainly to food crops and industrial crops.
CEA would initiate a program to increase productivity and at the same time
reduce areas in cane, thus releasing lands for crop diversification programs,
research and experimental activities, and for the settlement of landless
farmers by IAD.
24.       Expansion of agricultural areas is also part of the Government's
strategy in the sector, as indicated by ongoing regional development studies
being conducted by the National Planning Office and projects being considered
for the development of the southwest, the Azua plain and the lower Yuna
valley. In an effort to provide a basis for regional planning, SEA is trying
to establish a system for evaluation of agricultural areas.



-7-
Bank Role in Agriculture
25.       The Bank Group has to date financed a livestock development project
and two irrigation projc.ts in the agricultural sector of the Dominican P-rtbli"
Completed in 1976, the livestock project as irdicated in the Project Performance
Audit Report (Report No. 2052 of May 10, 1978) was a generally successful oper-
ation which resulted in a significant increasE in milk and beef production, but
livestock productivity may have fallen short cf appraisal expectations. The
first of two irrigation projects, Yaque del Ncrte, was approved by IDA in
1973 with parallel financing from IDB, with the objective of increasing agri-
cultural productivity and improving land distribution on approximately 23,000
ha. The project has suffered a two-and-a-hall-year delay and an estimated
cost overrun of about 90 percent. Major execution problems have involved
acquisition of rights of way and lack of agrarian reform legislation. These
problems have affected the project's construction schedule and land acquisition
and settlement programs. The Government has submitted a draft bill to Congress
for its approval, which would permit the Executive Branch to establish by
decree a maximum property size for each State irrigated system. It is expected
that the bill would be approved by Congress not later than December 31, 1979.
This would permit the establishment of a maximium property size in the Yaque del
Norte area and the carrying out of land acquisition and settlement programs
beginning in 1980.  The second irrigation project, Nizao, aims at increasing
agricultural productivity, increasing exports, and improving the standard of
living of some 3,200 families. The Loan Agreemient was signed in February 1979
but is not yet effective.
The Sugar Subsector
26.       The Dominican Republic enjoys a comparative advantage in the produc-
tion of sugar because of good quality soils and climatic conditions. Sugarcane
occupied about 12 percent of total cultivated lands and sugar contributed
32 percent of total exports in 1978. Sugar p;:oduction during that year
totaled 1.4 million m ton of which 0.9 million m ton were exported, about
0.2 million were for domestic consumtpion and the remainder was kept in
stocks. Production capacity (per 190 day grinding period) is distributed
among CEA (840,000 m ton), and two private groups, Gulf and Western (400,000 m
ton), and Vicini (90,000 m ton). The subsector accounts for about 60 percent
of the labor force in the manufacturing indus:ry (including seasonal workers),
and provides additional employment indirectly through transport, trade and
other services. Outgrowers (individual farmers) own about 33 percent of the
cane area milled by the industry as a whole. Taxes on sugar, which in 1975
reached 24 percent of tax revenues, now accouat for less than 2 percent of tax
revenues as a result of low sugar prices and a modification to the export tax
law at the end of 1978. The modification to the export tax exempted all
mills with an output lower than 90,000 m tons from taxation.
27.       The Dominican sugar industry is characterized by widespread use
of subcontractors and hired labor imported fr3m Haiti for field operations.
Officially, about 15,000 workers are brought into the country annually for
seasonal manual labor but the figure could be as high as 30,000. The high
labor requirement is due to the low level of nechanization. Labor-intensive
practices have provided a distinct advantage because of the low proportion of



-8-
trash, leaves and tops that reaches the mill. On the other hand, there is
some scope for mechanization of cane harvesting on terrains with suitable
topography.
The Private Sugar Industry
28.       Gulf and Western Corporation, a United States-based company, owns and
operates La Romana, a large (71,200-ha harvested area) estate with a 400,000-m-
ton-per-annum-capacity sugar mill which accounted for 28 percent of all sugar
production in 1974/78. It is located in the eastern part of the Dominican
Republic, where lack of rain and relatively poor soils depress yields of cane
per ha. Good management and organization, combined with regular investment
programs and adequate maintenance of field and factory equipment, account for
much of the company's successful operation. Gulf and Western, which has
diversified its operations in the Dominican Republic (tourism, manufacturing
and finance), does not at this time plan to expand its sugar operations.
29.       The Vicini group, a Dominican enterprise, owns and operates three
sugar estates in the southern and central part of the country, Cristobal
Colon, Angelina and Caei. Their total production averages about 80,000 m ton
per year, or about 7 percent of the country's sugar output. The group has
recently completed the modernization of the Colon mill and of its railway
system, and does not plan to undertake further investments for expansion in
the next four years.
The State Sugar Council (CEA)
30.       Created by Law 7 of August 20, 1966, CEA administers the 12 state-
owned sugar estates. It is chaired by the Secretary of Finance and includes
representatives of Government, outgrowers, private industry and labor.
Day-to-day operations are managed by the Executive Director of CEA, who is
also a councilman.  Until recently, 20 heads of departments in addition to the
administrators of the estates, in effect, reported directly to the Executive
Director.  A new and capable Executive Director took office in August 1978.
He has made several significant changes in CEA's management and is executing a
revision of the organization based on a study completed by consultants in
1966.
31.       The 12 CEA administered estates are Amistad, Esperanza and Monte
Llano, located in the north; Barahona in the west; Catarey in the center; Rio
Haina, Boca Chica and Ozama in the south and Consuelo, Porvenir, Quisqueya and
Santa Fe in the east. Between 1971 and 1977, CEA sugar production increased
from 0.70 million m ton to 0.81 million m ton, while total cane milled in-
creased by 18 percent, reflecting a drop of overall factory yields. Cane
acreage in 1978 was estimated at 212,000 ha of which about 49 percent is
in the hands of outgrowers. Some 3,110 outgrowers raise cane on 77,608 ha in
the area of influence of the CEA project estates, most of which are small
farmers (i.e., under 40 ha).



-9-
32.       The average cost of production of sugar for all CEA factories
in 1978 was US$0.235 per kg. The cost of cane is the largest single factor
determining the cost of sugar production and there iB scope for increasing
cane Productivity in the best CEA lands through better cultural methods,
improved cane varieties for all estates, better use of irrigation, and more
attention to drainage practices at Barahona Estate. It is also essential to
replace old factory equipment so as to avoid factory breakdowns, high mainte-
nance costs and reductions in output.
33.       The link between field and mill is vital to the industry.  In the
last two decades, tractors have complemented cx-carts in bringing cane from
the field to railroad and truck sidings. The railroads are owned and operated
by the sugar estates. A costly and difficult problem is cane storage.
Estates that operate railroads in many countries have found that the ideal
solution is having sufficient cars to hold care for night grinding, but
smaller bulk yards which serve as surge bins wrhere cane is kept, are more
common, and usually operate in conjunction with other storage on wheels. The
deficiencies of the present system result in lost time in the mills and loss
of sucrose content through delays in delivery. Also, repair facilities on the
CEA estates are outdated, with limited equipmEnt and insufficient tools, and
the personnel assigned to such work do not have the necessary training or
proper supervision.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The feasibility study for the propoEed project was undertaken
by Booker's Agricultural and Technical Services in 1975 and covered all CEA
mills and corresponding agricultural and transportation facilities. The
objective of the study was to determine a capital investment program for
CEA that would rehabilitate and expand the capacity of the sugar mills and
transportation system. Based on this study, but with a reduced scale of the
project in view, two FAO/CP missions (November 1977 and March 1978) visited
the Dominican Republic to assist CEA in identification and preparation work.
The project was appraised in October-November 1978. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Dominican Republic - Sugar Rehabilitation Project" (Report
No. 2468b-DO, dated August 29, 1979) is being distributed separately. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from July 16 to July 20, 1979. The Dominican
delegation was headed by Mr. Ramon Martinez-Aponte, Undersecretary of Finance.
Project Objectives and Description
35.       The primary objective of the projeci: is to improve the operational
efficiency and financial situation of CEA by reducing the average production
cost per unit in agriculture, transportation, manufacturing, and management by
avoiding major breakdowns in the manufacturing process and in the transporta-
tion system and by strengthening management svstems. The investment would
not lead to increased exports; it would increase the total output of CEA
factories only to the extent required to keep up with domestic demand, expected
to increase at about 5 percent per annum. The incremental production would be
74,000 m ton of sugar in the sixth year of the project.



- 10 -
36.       To accomplish these objectives the project would:
(a) Rehabilitate the sugar mills at Ozama, Rio Haina,
Boca Chica, Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona;
(b) Rehabilitate the railway system;
(c) Carry out irrigation and drainage studies at Barahona estate, a
cane area reduction program, and two pilot research programs; and
(d) Provide technical services to assist CEA in reorganizing and
improving its organization and management.
Sugar Factories
37.       The project would undertake major works in the Ozama, Boca Chica and
Rio Haina sugar factories and minor works in Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona.
The processing capacity of Ozama would be increased by 58 percent, to 230 m
ton per hour, with minor processing capacity increases in Boca Chica and
Consuelo. The equipment replacements at the six mills would reduce the grinding
periods and thus decrease per unit average production costs. Engineering
consultants would be hired by CEA to prepare equipment specifications for the
factory items and would supervise the installation of the equipment and works
at the Ozama factory. The hiring of the consultants in accordance with Bank
guidelines, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Transportation
38.       The transportation component would concentrate on the rehabilitation
of about 540 km. of railway track in Rio Haina, Ozama, Boca Chica, Quisqueya
and Consuelo. In addition, three locomotives would be replaced and 150 (20 m
ton) cane hauling cars would be purchased. The project would also finance
an initial stock of spare parts and a fully equipped car workshop. Tele-
communication equipment would be required to increase the efficiency and
safety of rail traffic. Cane hauling trucks and bulldozers for road mainte-
nance would also be included in this component. Consultants would be hired by
January 31, 1980 to supervise rail rehabilitation, maintenance of hauling rail
cars and locomotives and organization of rail traffic (Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Agriculture
39.       Irrigation and drainage studies to determine the appropriate level
of investments to retard or to stop the salinization of the cane fields, and
a pilot internal drainage scheme on 100 ha. would be undertaken at the Barahona
Estate. A program comprising two levels of activities would be introduced
to reduce the amount of land used for cane production while increasing yields.
The first would phase out outgrower's lands with unsuitable characteristics
for cane production and/or at uneconomic hauling distances. Such outgrowers
would receive technical assistance from SEA on production of alternative crops



- 11 -
and the extension services required to diversi:fy their production (Section 3.03(a)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The second would be carried out in the
longer term and would concentrate on the estata-owned lands; land not suitable
to cane would be used for experimental activitLes and research, and the carrying
out of priority projects including land distribution programs (Section 3.03(b)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). CEA would reorganize by January 31, 1981 its
Duquesa Experimental Station to improve cane productivity through more effective
cane research and extension. Pilot programs, for the mechanization of land
preparation and harvesting at Boca Chica, and for payment to outgrowers based
on the grading of cane according to its sucrose content at the Monte Llano
estate would be carried out.
Organization and Management
40.       Consultants would be hired to assist CEA in improving its overall
organization and management dealing principally with (a) establishment of
an efficient management information system through the gradual introduction
of Electronic Data Processing (EDP) facilitiesi and for planning of agricultural
and manufacturing production and transportation scheduling and (b) definition
of suitable personnel policies with emphasis on staff quality, career develop-
ment, salary incentives and improvements of the organization of CEA head-
quarters and estates. Detailed terms of reference for the management
consultants are in preparation by CEA and wouLd be reviewed by the Bank.
41.       A qualified training officer would be appointed and assigned to the
Personnel Department of CEA. In collaboration with the management consultants,
the various departments at CEA headquarters and at the mills, he would draw up
and help implement a program aimed at meeting CEA staff needs. A survey would
be carried out to see how programs presently carried out in the Dominican
Republic would fit CEA's training requirements. CEA assisted by consultants
would prepare and submit a report to the Bank by December 31, 1980 describing
the Training Program for mechanical and chemical engineers and providing a
timetable for its execution. The Bank would have a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the program and its timetable befcre it is put into effect (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
42.       Total project cost is estimated at US$69.2 million, of which about
US$47.0 million, or about 68 percent, represents foreign exchange requirements.
The baseline project cost amounts to US$51.0 million and has been estimated on
the basis of mid-1978 prices in pesos and converted into US dollars at the
official exchange rate. Physical and price :ontingencies total US$5.1 million
and US$13.1 million, respectively. Physical contingencies of civil works,
equipment and other components have been esttmated at about 10 percent and
price contingencies at about 7 percent. CEA does not pay taxes or duties on
imported equipment. Expatriate consultants would be retained for about 650
man-months. The average man-month baseline cost per expatriate consultants
for all project components is estimated at US$8,200 (including consultant firm
overhead, fees and other costs, where applicable).



- 12 -
43.       The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would be made to CEA with
the guarantee of the Dominican Republic, and would finance about 51 percent
of total project costs, representing 74 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange component of the project. The Bank loan would be for 17 years,
including four years of grace at 7.9 percent interest. A guarantee fee would
be chargee "y the Government to CEA bringing the cost of the funds to 10 percent
per annum in dollars. However, in view of CEA's weak financial situation (see
paras. 58 - 60), payment of the guarantee fee would be capitalized at the rate
of 10 percent per annum and would begin with the first repayment of orincipal
under the Bank loan (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk of non-U.S. dollar currencies against the
US dollar and would make a capital contribution equivalent to US$15 million.
Not less than 80 percent of this contribution would be provided during the
first three years following the signing of the Loan Agreement (Sections 2.03
and 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). CEA would secure US$90 million
from foreign commercial banks under the co-financing operation described
below. The co-financing package would consist of US$20 million needed for the
project, and of US$70 million to finance CEA's current operations and capital
expenditures which are urgently needed to begin the 1979/80 grinding season.
The proposed co-financing package would also permit CEA to improve its debt
structure from short to medium term and thus strengthen CEA's medium term cash
flow position. Other financing may also be needed from time to time to
finance operational costs and the Government would assist CEA to obtain these
loans (Section 2.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Co-financing with Foreign Commercial Banks
44.       CEA has substantially concluded co-financing arrangements with
foreign commercial banks for a loan of US$90 million. The loan would have
a final maturity of 10 years, including a grace period of 4 years at an
interest rate of 1 1/8 percent above LIBOR (for deposits at three/six months)
for the first 3 years, of 1 1/4 above LIBOR for the next 5 years, and of 1
3/8 above LIBOR for the remaining 2 years. The commercial bank loan would be
disbursed over a one year period. CEA would assume the foreign exchange risk
and the Government would guarantee the loan. These terms would represent an
improvement over those obtained recently by the Dominican Republic in the
Eurodollar market. The execution of the contract with private banks on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       It is proposed that as soon as a final agreement is reached on the
contract with private banks, the amortization schedule of the proposed Bank
loan would be adjusted on the US$20 million portion of the co-financing
package, so as to ensure that repayments on the external borrowings for the
project would approximate those CEA would have obtained if the entire amount
had been on Bank terms. Annex 3 of the draft Loan Agreement shows the normal
amortization shedule; Annex 4 of this report shows how this schedule would be
adjusted when the co-financing package is obtained.
Project Execution
46.       CEA, which has considerable experience in procurement, installation
and commissioning of factory and transportation equipment and works, would
execute the project. An internal committee, chaired by the Finance and



- 13 -
Programming Chief Officer and consisting of a:Ll senior line staff would
approve all project capital and operational budgets, and authorize expendi-
tures for equipment, civil works and consultiiig services. In most cases,
technical studies, equipment and works would be undertaken by local staff
under the authority of the estate administrator at the estate level. Local
staff would be assisted by the technical staff at headquarters with direct
assistance by consultants. Responsibility for coordinating all the activities
for the efficient execution of project components would be vested in the
Projects and Special Studies Department and the Management Office of Finance
and Programming. CEA has appointed a chief of the projects and special studies
department satisfactory to the Bank. The Bark would have the opportunity to
comment on the qualifications and experience of any candidate for this position
before any subsequent appointment (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       The chief of the Projects Departmeut would be responsible for the
monitoring of all project components and wouLd receive data on key indicators
from sugar factory managers, consultants and technical superintendents at
headquarters in order to have early warning of any problems that could inter-
fere with project implementation.  The Bank would receive from CEA (a) semi-
annual progress reports, based on the monitoring information and covering
progress on equipment procurement and instalLation and on civil works construc-
tion as well as project expenditures; and (b) a completion report no later
than six months after the closing date (Section 3.07(b) and (c) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Auditing
48.       Each of the six CEA estates financed under the project would keep
separate accounts geared toward producing cc,st control and management infor-
mation related to project implementation. These consolidated accounts, together
with CEA's accounts, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audit reports would be submit:ted to the Bank no later than
six months after the close of CEA's fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Equipment and Civil Works.  Purchases of similar equipment items
for sugar factories (US$30.6 million), transportation (US$19.2 million) and
agriculture (US$1.5 million) would be bulked into single contracts, whenever
feasible. For contracts above US$50,000, procurement of factory, transport
and agricultural equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank would be by
international competitive bidding. Equipment purchases of minor items would
be in accordance with sound business practices and after receiving quotations
from at least three suppliers, provided that such contracts would not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of US$500,000. Civil works for sugar factories
(US$0.6 million) and for rail track rehabilitation (US$4.9 million) would be
procured through force account by the project mills, with assistance of
sub-contractors. There would be no Bank financing of civil works, which would
be entirely covered by local counterpart funds.



- 14 -
50.       Consultants.  Consulting services (US$10.3 million) and related
equipment would be selected in accordance with procedures and retained on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that inter-
national consultants would be hired for: (a) engineering work in the sugar
factories; (b) technical assistance for railways; (c) manage"ont of the
Barahona irrigation and drainage studies; and (d) management of part of the
cane area reduction program. An international consulting firm, in associa-
tion with a local firm would undertake the design and implementation of the
EDP and management assistance component. Computer facilities (US$2.1 million)
would be procured on the local market after at least two quotations have been
received.
Disbursement
51.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of five years as
follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for purchases of factory
equipment, including installation and engineering;
(b) 13 percent of foreign expenditures for transportation equipment,
materials, and technical assistance;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for agricultural studies
and programs; and
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for management and organization
assistance including leasing of EDP hardware facilities.
Retroactive Financing
52.       Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000 is recommended to cover
initial payments to consultants for preliminary engineering and management
studies.
Markets
53.       Exports.  The Dominican Republic is a provisional member of the
International Sugar Agreement (ISA) which became effective on January 1, 1978
and covers the period 1978-82. As provisional member the Dominican Republic
must fulfill the stocking obligations stipulated by ISA.  The volume of sugar
exported by the Dominican Republic in 1978 in accordance with ISA, was 935,000
m ton which was 15 percent below the level exported in 1977 and 8 percent
below the average level exported in 1973-77. In 1978, the Dominican Republic
held over 200,000 m ton in stock, which is equal to the maximum stocking obliga-
tion during years 1978-80. The Dominican Republic has been assigned an export
quota of 990,000 m ton for 1979. The country's quota will increase to 1.1
million m ton when world sugar prices are above US$0.30/kg (in current prices).
Production capacity of 1.4 million m ton at project completion (including the
increase of 74,000 m ton resulting from the project), would enable the
Dominican Republic to maintain its exports and to cover domestic market
requirements.



- 15 -
54.       Between 70 and 80 percent of Dominican sugar exports go to the
United States. In recent years Venezuela has become also a major importer
of Dominican sugar, having purchased 108,000 m ton of sugar valued at US$24
million in 1978. Venezuela and the Dominican Republic have signed a new
agreement under which Venezuela will purchase about 209,000 m tons of sugar
in 1979 at a price of about US$0.24/kg. Secondary customers are Morocco,
France and the United Kingdom and, more recently, the Soviet Union. In
addition to sugar, CEA and the two private firms export molasses to the
United States. In 1978, the industry exported about 167 million liters for
about US$10 million.
55.       World raw sugar prices on free markEts declined from US$0.30/kg
(in 1978 constant dollars) in 1976 to a low of US$0.18/kg in December 1978.
This decline continues to reflect the fast increase in world production and
stocks which occurred in response to high world sugar prices in 1974 and 1975.
According to Bank estimates, world sugar prices are expected to increase
in 1978 prices from US$0.21/kg in 1980, to US',0.29/kg in 1982 to US$0.40/kg
in 1984 to 1986, and then decrease to US$0.31/'kg,in 1987 to 1990.
56.       Domestic Consumption.  In 1978, domestic consumption was about
177,000 m ton of which about 97,000 m ton was of refined sugar and the rest,
raw sugar. CEA forecasts the increase in sugar consumption at about 5 percent
per annum over a 10-year period; between 1970 and 1978, it grew at 5.5 percent
per annum.
57.       INESPRE, the price stabilization in:stitute, is in charge of sugar
distribution for domestic consumption. In accordance with existing legislation,
INESPRE, in 1978, purchased raw sugar and refLned sugar from the sugar compa-
nies at DR$0.13/kg and DR$0.17/kg, respectiveLy and sold to wholesalers at
DR$0.26/kg and DR$0.31/kg, respectively. Eighty percent of the spread between
INESPRE's selling price to wholesalers and sugar factory prices is used to
subsidize the Dominican Electric Corporation (CDE), 15 percent is given back
to CEA and 5 percent is retained to finance INESPRE's operating costs.
This subsidy to CDE has contributed to CEA's difficult financial situation.
The Government has submitted legislation to the Dominican Congress which would
eliminate the subsidy. Elimination of the subsidy would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Pricing of Cane
58.       The price of cane received by outgrowers is based on the average
weighted unit price of sugar sold on the world and domestic markets. Present
pricing policies are satisfactory but given their impact on farmers and on the
sugar industry as a whole, the Government would review prices paid to out-
growers and retailers every two years, starting in October 31, 1981. The Bank
would be given a reasonable opportunity to discuss the results of the review
with the Government (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Financial Analysis
59.       CEA's financial situation deteriorEated sharply after 1976 as
world sugar prices dropped abruptly. Losses (after taxes) were $26 million in
1977 and $23 million in 1978. A loss of $40 million is estimated for 1979.



- 16 -
Faced with inadequate internal cash generation, CEA has resorted increasingly
to short-term indebtedness to finance urgent maintenance and working capital
requirements.
60.       This situation has been aggravated by high administrative and
operating costs which, in turn, reflect the lack in the past of an adequate
program of capital replacement and maintenance. CEA's failure to carry out
such a program resulted from weak management and from the substantial trans-
fers which CEA has had to make to the rest of the public sector. Thus, in
1976, at a time of high world sugar prices when CEA's net income (before
taxes) reached a record level of $45 million, about $42 million was paid in
export tax (the subsidy to CDE represented a $13 million reduction in receipts
from domestic sales). In addition, in the past CEA's management has failed
to allocate funds, remaining after taxes, to maintenance and capital replace-
ment and such funds have been withdrawn by the government to finance other
public sector needs. The situation has now changed fundamentally inasmuch
as both the government and CEA's new management are determined to rehabilitate
and modernize the company. A good indication of this is the package of measures
summarized below (para. 61).
61.       CEA's interest rate structure on its loans to outgrowers appears
inadequate, even after taking into account delayed payments to them for the
purchase of sugar cane. Assurances were obtained that CEA would undertake
a study to determine the adequacy of the interest rate charged to outgrowers,
taking into account delayed payments to outgrowers for purchases of cane, and
the price of cane paid by CEA to outgrowers and, after receiving Bank comments
thereon, CEA would carry out the study recommendations by September 30, 1980.
In addition, CEA's financial condition has been further affected by accumulated
arrears on loans due from outgrowers, which amounted to US$7 million at the
end of 1978. Assurances were obtained that CEA would present a plan for the
recovery of delinquent loans by December 31, 1979 and undertake measures to
recover or write-off irrecuperable loans in arrears to outgrowers by January 31,
1982 (Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       The Government and CEA's new management are considering a package
of investment, financial and organizational measures designed to turn CEA into
an efficient sugar producer. Of particular importance are the modification to
the sugar export law which took place in late 1978 (para. 26), the expected
elimination of the subsidy to CDE, the Government's capital contribution of
$15 million, a medium term cofinancing package and measures to recover arrears
of CEA loans to outgrowers. In addition, CEA would maintain a ratio of current
liabilities of not less than 1.3 to 1 at all times until fiscal year ending
September 30, 1982 and not less than 1.5 to 1 thereafter. CEA would not incur
any debt over one year, unless its revenues for the fiscal year preceding such
debt, or for a later twelve month period, whichever is greater, are not less
than 2 times the debt service requirements on all debt. CEA would prepare and
submit until project completion to the Bank for comments annual three-year
maintenance and capital investment plans. In order to utilize internally
generated funds as required for purposes of the carrying out of investment and
maintenance plans, and to meet its debt service requirements, CEA would
allocate to reserves not less than 40 percent of its surplus in each fiscal
year (Sections 5.06, 5.07 and 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



17-
63.       These measures, together with those designed to improve the operational
efficiency of CEA and of its mills, would result in an improvement of CEA's
financial situation over the medium term. The projected increase in sugar prices
(para. 54) and the impact of the technical, financial and managerial improvements
proposed under the project are expected to lead to a distinct trend of growing
profitability after 1982 which should allow CEA to improve its debt structure
and continue the investment program to be initiated under the project.
Economic Benefits
64.       The quantified direct benefits of the project would be (a) lower
unit costs of production of sugar for all CEA operations from US$0.235/kg in
1978 to US$0.198/kg in 1989 and (b) increase in production of sugar by 74,000 m
tons by the sixth project year. On this basis, the internal economic rate of
return for the entire project, including the oitlays for agricultural and
management studies, has been estimated at 25 percent. The project would help
maintain many of the 40,000 jobs in CEA headquarters and sugar estates as well
as an equal amount of secondary employment. It would also help maintain the
present volume of the Dominican Republic's main export by avoiding major break-
downs in sugar production and transportation due to deteriorated equipment.
65.       The economic rate of return of the froject would be equal to the
opportunity cost of capital in the Dominican Republic (estimated at 11 percent)
if the benefits from increased sugar output wEre reduced by 44 percent, or if
the costs of equipment and civil works for sugar factories and transportation
increased by 80 percent, or if the project benefits suffered a delay of three
years.
Project Risks
66.       The risk most likely to affect the 'roject's economic rate of
return is a world price of sugar lower than projected. However, the proj-
ected price for 1984-86 (US$0.40/kg in 1978 prices). appears to be conservative
when compared to previous peaks in 1963/64 of US$0.46/kg and in 1974/75 of
US$0.77/kg). Another risk would be the lack of a continuing long-term capital
investment program, which would need to begin during the fifth year of imple-
mentation of the project. It is expected that the projected improvement of
CEA's financial situation will enable it to undertake such a program. These
risks appear reasonable particularly in the light of the overall international
competitiveness of the Dominican Republic as a sugar producer.
Environmental Impact
67.       The present methods of disposing oi waste materials associated
with sugar production would continue to be used under the project since
there are no apparent ill effects to the env:.ronment. However, to ensure
that any increase in production as a result of the project would not change
the present situation, Bank missions would continue to check on the matter,
particularly in regard to water quality.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The Guarantee Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, the Loan Agreement between the Bank and Consejo Estatal del Azucar
(CEA), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.  Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(a) the elimination of the sugar subsidy to CDE; (b) the execution of a
contract by the Borrower with foreign commercial banks for the US$90 million
cofinancing operation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) the hiring of engineering consultants for the project sugar factories
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I .2P. D. Cargill
Attachments
August 29, 1979



-19-                                                ANE I
MA          ~   ~TA ~                 Page 1 of 5
DOKINICAN WLIC - SOCIAL TUICATb5S DATA SIT
LAN Ank (TR0USUD                SQ.O{. SINICUI UPISLIC    _ funl CMO                       WT   D)AP C
TOTAL                                                                  Ban86       SAKE     mm NiCER
AGRICULTURAL     24.7                                NOT  33c8V      CDOCAPHIC   180C          iCUS
1940  lb    1970 1k UTIINIA /b       ICION Le   OUUP C      G ROUP I.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                240.0       390.0    340.0           1074.6      926.1      1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL lQUIVATNT)    157.0       321.0    653.0            94U.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     3.0         4.1       5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3       39.8      45.9            59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RlACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      63.0        83.0    103.0             23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    166.0      174.0    204.0             80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        46.8        48.2      47.0            40.9       4'.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        50.3        49.1      50.0            54.4       55.3       56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.9         2.7       3.0             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCINT)
TOTAL                             3.6         2.9       2.9             2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                             6.1         5.8       5.4             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.0        45.0      37.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    16.0        12.0       9.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.5       3.4             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        17.2      61.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      30.3            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        121.3       101.0      89.0            99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  92.0        88.0      98.0           107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         46.0        50.0      45.4            60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        29.0      23.3            28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    23.0        15.0      10.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0        57.0      60.0            63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        96.0/f      ..            76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        37.0      55.0            63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..        72.0      88.0            79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              *         14.0      27.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        58.0      42.0            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..        63.0      74.0            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              *-        54.0      16.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..      2100.0   1870. Oj         1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3930.0    1330.07j         933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           400.0       350.0    350.0/h          563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..       150.0    220.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              *-      2680.0/h  3580.0/h        1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..      30.0/h          25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.0         5.3        ..             5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                             4.8         5.2        ..             4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             5.1         5.4                       5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.0          ..        ..             1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             1.6          ..        ..             1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                             2.2          ..        ..             1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENr
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            20.0          ..        ..            54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                            57,7          ..        ..            90.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                             3.0          ..        ..            14.2       17.3



-2 0 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  2  of  5
DOMINICAN RZPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOINCA   EPBLC REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERACES
DO3MINICAN REPUBLIC             - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME          INCOME
1960 /b      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /C   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUC T_'!N
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  98.0         101.0      110.0             107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                   99.0        101.0      109.0             109.1        108.6        110.C
FEMALE                 98.0        102.0      111.0             107.4        97.1          92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    7.0          19.0       24.0             40.5         33.5         51.2
MALE                    7.0         19.0        24.0             40.4         38.4         56.4
FEMALE                  7.0         19.0       24.0              39.0        30.7          43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)    ..              8.0        9.0              18.5        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              58.0          54.0         ..             37.1         35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                            16.0          24.0         ..              17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           64. 5        67.2       67.0              77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.0          10.0       16.0             29.1         13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           34.0         38.0        40.0            172.1       122.7         225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0         23.0       34.0              67.9        38.3         102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    27.0          36.0       42.0              76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0              1.2         ..               4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         820.0        1100.0    1200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     10.5          11.2       11.9             21.5        25.0          24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                66.4          61.2       58.0             30.2         43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   12.2          14.0       16.0             23.8        21.5          30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   28.6         26.8       26.5              30.9        33.5         33.8
MALE                                    50.4         47.1       46.3              47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                   6.1          6.1        6.3              13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  2.0          2.1        2.3               1.5         1.4           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          26.3/i    25.1              23.7         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             54.37?    52.9              58.7         52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           4.37?      5.0              2.9          3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..         12.47?    14.0               9.9         12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..            265.6        270.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      239.0            185.1        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      270.0            396.3        282.5        550.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      280.0            308.1        248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       24.0             35.2         20.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..             46.6         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 4 Caribbean;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1965-70 average;   /g  1973;   /h  Government estab-
lishments only;   /i  Santo Domingo, urban.
May, 1979



-21 -                                                   ANNEX I
PCI IbIlliNi if 901Db INlItli;PR5                     ~~~~~~~Page  3  of  5
Ncotes .Af t1001  che dab. ore diWow  fron.rurm           heesrel,in ''dged th, nest A,torbetateivu  end ret tam,l it shol,,I        -        ,dol  1,, Ii 'hoe, napot Hs 1tonr-
.:ttie gll  orparable  sos    fthe lack of  tanndordiced deililon  And con cepts geaId badleentlnns  t                                 cIfvoof  hoi daim,   The dete sre, romethelesm,
ueful  Po deecribe ordersof magnitude, indicate trendsl,  nd chernuterascrtain n)r oiitfsrecce   etween, cocotl
The adlueted aronp avesase for sick indicator rse popolAtien-weigbtesd geosmtirt mnicr, seclu~ding the ewtrenre unies of tbs Indicator and the most
populated coutyisakgup    Coverage  of countries amontg rbo indicators depends on  vprimtrhlitp oft dota ond in pan er,iton.   los to lack of date.
group averagosm for 1apital Surplva. oil heperners and indicator, of soness to onien and .ceton disposal. nosing. income distribu,tion, srd poverty are
simple pop,,lotin-wsigh,tsd gsoerstic Means withou~t the aectiosien of extrea" values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. 'Kn)                                                                 Peoulstion  per hesitel bed - totel, anba.. sod renal - population (total,
Total - Tntal surface area comprising land anse  and inland waters,                           urban, sod rurst  dividad by their respctvenubsr of bospitel beIds
Agricultural - Neat intent estimate of agri.cultural area used temporarily                    vavslab.e in public and privte genaraI and specialioed hospital and re-
or peran-acnlp for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilintiti- centers.  Hdospita1s are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fellow.                                                                                an laast one physician.   Establushments previding principally custodial
tape are act Inuladod.  cRal. hoytan   h.wevor, includa health and nedi-
GNP Pin CAP1TA fib)) - hNP Per capita. -timates at ourront mono:, prices,                      cal connoer  noli  perman.ently otoffed by a phynlici.  (but by a medical as-
cst>ru   y  ...  ... Pvvoncur Method a  W-id back Atlas (1971-77 basin);             eslac.t, mouron, nidwife, ott.) uhuh offnt in-pationt accommodation and
J4ric    <'i   o                                                                           p'U  .y-wide aIhefted range ofi nodicol fiaolctie..
Ode  -OtM    lruisla   o   Total .onhbn of odmliocs..  tl or diocharg.o
ENEcGY CONpLpnTtION run C1, LT.-  Anno,o  zamy  o.   -co   00. etn,rl.  .-t                                    dividod by the .mabap of beds..
(uland "gunlte  pent  loan,  tat',poile und.1  hool.               and.' us  go-
thermal elcntrinutp)  ;in i:lu.gru-  of cal equinoent Per c pita..715'
POPUJLATION_ ANI;_ ITA_LiTAuIISCO,                                                             A  '      1ocl  COO lto of   ann.poyfcitndividaaln  h.l shorn ltvicg quarters
Total conulatlon. midya     JmlIn)-              '  u y:iintailbaac-  roa mo. CbadnCrlodger mop or nay met be includad in
average of two oct -yorear    iae;Di   Isou  'tnd 177   . t                                Ct' s'- '   ~             ataica  punpan       Statistical definitions lif heuse-
tcban Pauro Iponoc  o~f Loot   - Reac   of ucham t-   -1~a POP 1.-Ci   t
tior: dlifZrent dndLnlo,.-  *- arbe. -rn..  map affect   - p on1 I ty                    Avono   uc,rcnon   e   om     oa.  ra.sm   ua   Average non-
ofdata sinig ~couo_ie..                                                                  hen on   Iamcoyr  room in all. urban, and rural occupied convetional
Peult on dniti-                                                                        dwel3i,gs. reaCoc~tivel':.  Dwellings exculude non-permanent structures and
Per  an  ho. - Mid-yaac nonulanton Par aq-ar,. rlmarai  11.6 bl-al-an                       ...cu -bad canto.
Pof total area.                                                                          Access o'      Ctlorrioto  (ner-." ofdolcs)-tnl  unbar. and rural
Perso  bin        .   ..  ..ioltn   and - Compured  so above f,i    I~ .ut.rl'nd            Con ' -in tonal d-olinigs -xtb elcctricity in living quarters as percentage
only.-                                                                                     od toti_ - ubar, end tonal. dweflting  reopective17.
Ppoulo~tice ace structuraeosnt  -  bildnen (C'-lu ye."o) ,wlo.-g
(15-60 years), and retired ;67,           so~rad ...iar) as Percent.gea of Mid-       LPAT
user Populstiom                                     ~c 'usotro    rol.oont , ti,5
PapuleI     & groth rate (p  coont) -tucal. and urban - Comopoun.d  -ccal                  Primana  ol., u-nol.odfale - Ttota  Aned fema.le onroilment of all ages
growth rates  f total sod unbar mid-peat populations for 1950-60,                          at the pm-ar'   -vel lii Poruac eg   of ronpoutiunly primary enhool-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; ncrmslly loclodes uhildr.e. aged h-Cl yearo bat adjusted for
Crude  'rbh rate (pcr thousan)- A,noel 1.ye births par thousan d of                          differeot length. of primary edicatico; forQ iaro  witb uciversal ado-
moid-year population; ten yer a  '   'etic ever0. - ending in .1960 end                   natilin enrollment nay enceed 1lhh portent n~inco s.-n  pupils ore below or
1970 and f -e year averageondoce-_  in.  '   tflir c  tn pe.ent -stimeto.                  abovo the official oohool aeg.
Crude death, rate (p_~ thliaand  -Annua  deei  nre  thoosand of mid-                       Secondary schuol - _total  and fosa- lap-ud 00 chaos;  -o-ud-nyd -
year Ppoplation; tan-ya, arithmetic averages eruing '0 1960 and 1970                       tioc requires at least four yearn ct appro-d pn.-ry ic-trontiom; Pro-
and fuvepearT averag  emdnrg In 197) fornoon recent auoaevIdes generlil  -cational, or teether trolinig u-tr..u::unsi for pupils
Gross repro dietie  rts -' Averesm  -.nhe  of daughters oroonco will bear                    usull..     11Y f1  to 17 Yners of age; uc-ephcdecte  -n-s- arli gecrarlty
to hernoorosl  ePcoductov-  per lcd if she e.p- 'ioc-o pr-non  ceo-                        coclodod.
opecific fertilIty rates.;    oclyp five-year ov-raego  endiog in 1960,                  .'.utli-al erollmen..t iPercent of secondacy) - h'utotioccl cuetltuti... In-
1970, a-A 1975.                                                                            uIede techeical, industria.1  or other programe whinb operate independently
Pumiy Planning  al-e2t-co         I, anua  (hcsodo       Annual eucho  of                    or as dapartmento of setondary isstitutiono.
t-err   fbrhroto             ei-n  ecdan aoye     f -ocien-   fomily                  ail ~-t-och.r raiT-eiar.od  aoeoy-                  1ua  stadoota   -1rilld Jn
Ionn Ing progeam.                                                                          primay and ..e.ondary lve-le divided by nune-  of toockhr  in tho norre-
Puiyplecoec - Us ers (porten.tof_married we       Pernortog  o f                         spendine levels.
marued women of chuld-bearing age (15-u4 yeo-) w...00  birth-control                    Adult lienan  noe(enn)-Literate aodulne (oble to read end write) 00
devute. to all narooed wlien uli some aae oroor                                            a par-tetge of total Audlt population  gind 11 pnors andevr
POOl AND NTpytITIph1                                   ~ClfiiiPTl;CN
mAdcaof food produlitione pee  at  (1970100) -  ed..no  acer- cf Per                      Pa...en5e' cas.. (per thosoand popoluticn) - Poisongertor  to-prlno motor cars
napits. annuo  prodoetien of all food -iln-oditios.                                      iOti,f Io.  ho- oiDht Ipon...; oculudes aeholancee  h-ao-  and military
Per canineaspply of talories (percent of recuiron-tsi - Computed fr..                      vehiclet.
energy equiva lent ef cot food sopplies available  in coutry Per uapita                 Redio no-elvn   erthu dpupoltln) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  uvaiIabIe sppIes. epiedomestic production, imports lone                        hroadusTC  ttsn  gecerol poblin  Per the....nd ef pop.altioc; emliludouniema
emports, -d cihanges in stock   Not -upplie- ec1,ude animal lend, seeds,                 recoivoe  in ooa.trios and in Years whom  regianratini   of radio sets wao in
quantIiLes coed In fooad processing, and lI-... in distnlbotono   Ro-                    cffOctn  deto for rene  years- coy oct ho to-par.n.   ou nce most cun o
q,iroet ,   were eutimated hy PAo bhasad on phynueleglnal oneda fcr nor-                 ohnlishsd licomoting.
mal activity and health tuesoderiog environmental tempertutre, body                     OP recotos(o  tluodeuaic   - TV crenivero fer bruadno..t to geserd.
weights,. age and sac dionribuinscof ci  poplation, and all-wieg 10 per-                   public per thosoand pcpolaticc; eolueatit..eniod TV onuivero In toun-.
tent for 000t0at he...ehold level,                                                         veins and in year  whoc r-f-tr-tic. of 'TI ..m  w-s do effoct.
Per canito eupolv of urotein (cgrane per day)   Protein. content of Per--                 Newspape , irculatioin (pee th,euud pepulotice) - Sboes the average nirnule-
tP,ita eon supply of food Per day.  Net sapip  e f fond in defined asi                     tioe  of "doily general  noter-ot newspaper", defined as a Periodical puhli-
ahove.  Omqa.iremects for all neo..nTrue  established he 0iSDA previde for                 liot-e  dovotod pr-naily tu recording general aIni.   It ii co..sidared to
o               ..Michnin alovns   ih  from  liP ,ten   pretois par da,y  20 O  Sracs     ho "daily" 1 in  oppsoc at leost fear utmi-oco.ek
of  aiel and pis   roo t       f  hio1  gry    ed ho aimal proteim.                  Cicm anua.ttn.e .cncaia.e.na   - Biasod cm the ...her uf tickete
The.e standards are lower thanmth... of 75 grams ef totol pretein and                      oold duing the yeen,  -icldieg odninaoia. to doive-is cinen.s coad mobile
23 grans of animal prortcas act average for the world, propesed by                        unit,.
PuO in tho Third idlrld rood Survey.
Per caPita protein  spply fren sanimal nd pulse - Protein eapply of folid                EIPOPIMEttI
derived from aninels and pubes in grams per day.                                        Total lthbor force ithousandi;  - fucnnoic.lly active persons, incluading armed
Child (..e. 1-h ) nortalitfy rate_(per  h               Asa) - Anua  doaths per nhoae-        fore-  cod uceploped hat .culudiog heusevlves.  itodents, etc.  Defini-
end in. age group 1-h yocrs, to lihildpeo in this ego group.                               tine:  inv.ri...sc... tlev  lire not t-myroblo.
pee e fomen) - Panalo lahor forle os porenceI          o  tetal  abeor lorce.
OEAITO                                                           Acrioul lire lyo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(prcent) - labor f.ree in frcIng,  footry.   hutingaiflIn
Lif   mpnota-  at  io   yus    Average number of years of _ife                                an p-c.~ntagn cf total labor fotep.
remaining at lie        ..;.sualy five-yost avenages ending in 1960, 1970,              icdotr', (prtet   - Lahor force in mining, ucurr-utnie.c,           .. factoetriog Arid
end 1971.                                                                                  nine .riutty' water aind gi as Pereentage of tetol tohoc fliree.
In fant mortality rote (pen thousad) - Annual doaths ef iefants under                     P-rtici,ali   ao(een)-tn,ml,adfm                               - Tonal, male, amd
em.e pear of age per theusond live birhte.                                                  fe-L.e  oh rfcto us ynrcintofos of tholr ro.upeutve population.
Acess no safe water tsreent vopuan   ioc) - total, urban, cud zuro.  -Theer are ILO.0 odi-sr    portielpariur ront- refl-iocig 00-te
Numbor nof Popi  (total1, urban,  md rural) cith rcasco.ahlo  ee    tc                     st-ot-ir  of the PeP,,ienie,  -rd tuac Itie  tore.
safe water supply (includes treated iA,fce eaters or untreated hot                      tEnclio  deedcprtl      eC   fpylto   ne   bodh   o   vrt
uecona-ieatad wanan suih as then frt- protected ho 0holei, syringe                         the leblir force in afe froiup of 15-6b pe,..
end.sanitary wei1si asperceotaget of thoin -'eapeutive pcpul.tanio.
tin sn urban a C   pbic  -luumtai  on stod;o-  luctatd out nore                        INCOME tiSTRiBCTtCN
then, 200 ocetsr from a houne .o OwC-id-o..  -o oniog within re.-                      jPenulinto  u  pivteinum   (both in cash and kisd) ron-l-d by richest 5
senale access of thon hosu-    In rurl aruneet'oi  ateowoold                             periont,riehest 20 portent, puliret Of pereont, and peorost 40 pereent
imply that the husewIf.o lr mebers of thr house.hold u, -0t00  tli                         oIfoshl
upend a dispropnrtioniate porn of the cl-  in lot-hing ru  [olc'
watrrneeds.                                                                            PVRT',n TAyChRGT GRfUPS
Acces  tc  ert   ipsl(erete   Oualm   'roatut'dba   and                                  Es-timated abuulio.    vrt      iun   evl(i   e   aio   -bucha  and ruael-
ricoh   Numer of peiple (tetal, urban, and rrl   sr1 -'e, ho' -ucOtu                          hhs, iute pover.ty  Oincome levlI ia Thot Inoo.. Moo   hovlowohb         ansia
dispooo.l as perc-tagn   of thoir reupoctivo pepul. oo-_   Ec..,  .unt itinalily adequate diot Plus  -eniptia1 nun-f..ld reqoirer.ten    is not
disposa   u I co~ nlade the ee11.utiec and dinPesal,  'at  lv.bait                          aff-'dabln.
trneetucct, ct  .-moo  ematete and waste-water by wetor-hr e -nta-no                    is-m  .e  eaie  oet   nem   ee   CS   e   out)-ubn1c ua 
.r thi.ne, I    1.1 pli-leend    -il-   int.il-J...a.Rot  ive p-vrtY intone level Is that lincome Iecel loss than one-third
Populatio acr Py _ioc            .Pop  anion divided by number of pra. 'i0Pot uapita penn...al incomo oi thu sutr-
phyatniane  usl'.         Cvi d.oneca1  tbolil at unierity 1ev 1.                       nsttr:eo pouaiohl0pietvileodol(oton      ra   n   ua 
Poplaition par sur-cu carton-  Populatien duoldad by number of                                Per .p   fnplto    ubnadrrl   h   r   lhr"bouepo'o
pral,tInolng Mala and fn.m  o grad.ate I rees, prantical nurses, and                         te.L.'tiv- p-ir  whiehevr is  cruer.t
as - Start nurses
Ml"ua n od iotlDt  Divisian
EconmicOneosi  cu  PreJetion. Department



- 22 _
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                            Page 4 of 5
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.   %                1960-68      1968-74      1974-78
GNP at Market Prices                     4,887.0   100.0               3.7           10.-         5.0
Oross Domestic Investment                1,105.8    22.6               7.1          18.5          4.8
3ross National Saving                      728.5    14.9             -11.5          32.2         9.9
Durrent Account Balance                  -377.3    -7.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                      825.7    16.9             - 1.2          12.4         4.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                  -1,219.5   -25.0               10.7          10.9        -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
]'RODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added            Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
us$ Mln.   %          Mn.        %        us$         __
Agriculture                                931.2  20.9
::ndustry                                1,305.0  28.2
Services                                 2,427.1  52.0
Unallocated
Total/Average                          4,663.3 100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government              Central Government
(RD$ Mn.)       % of GDP        (RD$Mln.)        % of GDP
1978      1978   1977-78        1978       1978   1977-78
Current Receipts                           667.8      13.4      14.1        591.6      11.8     12.6
Current Expenditure                        482.3       9.6       9.2        416.6       8.3       7.9
Current Surplus                            185.5       3.7       4.9        175.0       3.5       4.7
Capital Expenditures                       337.0       6.7       6.8        294.1       5.9       6.1
External Assistance (net)                  104.2       2.1       1.2        100.7       2.0       1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Million RD$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   275.9   318.6   397.5   494.7   708.8   818.9   851.1   959.3   930.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector            192.2   221.1   260.6   291.5   383.5   425.8   416.0   455.1   513.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector           180.1   216.8   282.1   385.6   577.8   685.0   788.9   851.4  885.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        18.6    18.9    19.6    19.3    23.4    21.1    21.2           20.6  18.6
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 1/  100.0   101.2   109.3   114.2   134.3   157.3   161.5             175.6 189.7
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 1/                             1.2     8.o      4.5    17.6    17.1       2.7        8.7   8.0
BELnk Credit to Public sector            10.5    15.0    17.9    11.9    31.6    11.0    -2.3            9.4  12.7
BE.nk Credit to Private Sector           18.7    20.4    30.1    36.7    49.8    18.6    15.2            7.9   4.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the official exchange rate of RD$1.00=US$1.00.
1/ GDP deflator.
not available
not applicable



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1976      1977       1978                                      Average 1976-78
(Millions US $)                                            US$ Million    %
Exports of Goods, NFS             840.4    917.9      825.7    Sugar and by-products                248.6        34.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          -1110.4  -1172.4   -1219.5    Ferronickel                             91.5        12.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    - 270.0   -254.5    -393.8    Coffee                                  110.3        15.2
Tobecco                              38.0         5.2
Interest payments, net           -43.5    -51.1       -71.5    Cocca                                 74.5       10.3
Other factor payments, netl/    -80.3    -72.3        -41.6    Bauxite                               20.2         2.8
Net transfers                    151.9    113.6       129.6    All other commodities                141.0        19.6
Balance on Current Account      -241.9   -264.3    -377.3           Total                           724.1       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          60.0     45.9       40.0    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, l97f).3/
Net Public MLT Borrowing          79.0    104.8       165.9
Disbursements                 (121.5)  (146.6)   (209.9)                                             US$ Mln
Amortization                  ( 42.5)  ( 41.8)   ( 44.0)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          764.9
Other items n.e.i..?!             5Q.7    185.2        76.2      N:n-Guaranteed Private Debt              N.A.
Increase net in Reserves (+)    -43.2       71.6      -95.2       TDtal outstanding   Disbursed           N.A.
Gross Reserves (end year)        165.1    224.8       199.0    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978 3/
Net Reserves                     -11.4      60.2      -35.0                                               %
Fuel and Related Materials                                       Fublic Debt, incl. guaranteed            10.2
Imports                        169.5    177.0      194.2       Eon-Guaranteed Private Debt               N.A.
Exports                            -         -          -       otal outstanding   Disbursed             N.A.
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                     IBRD/IDA LENIDING,(Jul. 31. 1979) (Million US$):
Through - 1971           Since - 1971                                                               IBRD      IDA
US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00   US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00                  Outstanding & Disbursed              28.4      17.1
RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00   RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00                  Ouadisbursed                         50.6       5.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       79.0      22.1
1/ Workers remittances included under net transfers.
2/ Includes private long-term capital, other capital, and errors and omissions.
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
not available
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of July 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                        Amount (Less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower                 Purpose              Bank    IDA      Undisb.
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                            25.0    9.1 1/        -
352 DO       1973   Dominican Republic         Irrigation             -   13.0         5.0
1051 DO       1974   Central Bank              Tourism              21.0      -        12.6
1142 DO       1975   Dominican Republic        Education             8.0                7.3
1316 DO       1976   Dominican Republic        Highways              5.0                1.0
1325 DO       1976   Dominican Republic        Population            5.0                2.7
1655 DO       1979   Dominican Republic        Nizao                27.0               27.0
Total                                                91.0   22.1
of which has been repaid                           12.0      -
Total now outstanding 2/                             79.0   22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                                  ___
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                    79.0   22.1
Total Undisbursed                                    50.6    5.0        55.6
.L/  With exchange adjustment
2/   A US$25 million loan for the Second Puerto Plata Tourism Project, which was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1979, has not yet been signed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 3L, 1979)
*         Fiscal                                      Type oF            Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                    Business            Loan   Equity   Total
v         1974        Cementos Nacionales S.A.        Construction       6.0       1.4     7.4
Material                    -
1978       Financiera Empresarial          Industr"ial
S.A.                            Credit           3.0       _       3.0
Total Gross Commitments                            9.0       1.4    10.1
Less Repayments                                  0.3        -      0.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           8.7      1.4    10.4
Total Undisbursed                                  3.0         -     3.0



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit 352 DO    Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; $13.0 million
Credit of January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is two and-a-half years behind schedule, partly
because of delays in recruiting consultants, and partly because Contract I
financed by IDB could not be signed until rights of way were obtained, a
condition in IDB's loan agreement. Project costs are estimated at 90 percent
above appraisal estimates. A more recent problem has involved delays in the
Government's decision to carry out the land acquisition and redistribution
program. The Government has indicated that it will shortly submit a draft
bill to Congress for its approval, which would establish a maximum property
size for state irrigated lands. Additional funds are needed to extend the
contract of the supervision firm beyond 1980, as INDRHI's capability to
execute the supervision of construction is not adequate. IDB has, in prin-
ciple, indicated it would provide financing.
Loan 1051 DO      Tourism I Project; $21.0 million loan of November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other faci-
lities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
completion of some project components is likely to be delayed by about one
year due to late loan effectiveness and two changes in the top management of
the Central Bank. Construction of the first tourist accommodations (golf
villas) at Playa Dorada has started. Negotiations with other private
investors for a hotel in Playa Grande and an apartment complex in Playa
Dorada are under way. Revised project costs, including provision for price
escalation and land acquisition, amount to $39 million compared to $36
million estimated at appraisal.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses of projects in execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1142-DO      Second Education Project; $8.0 million loan of July 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 19EO.
The project finances the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 204 rural community learning centers; 4 agricultural training centers,
3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools, and of
4 vocational training centers; a text book feas:ibility study, and training.
The project is over two years behind schedule. Construction of vocational
schools is delayed, pending legislation which i; expected to be approved by
Congress in the second semester of 1979 . The contract for construction
of primary rural schools has been signed. AcquIsition of equipment for
secondary schools was delayed by procurement problems which have now been
resolved. Construction of agricultural training centers has begun.
Loan 1316-DO      Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction; $5.0 million
Loan of August 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides a highway maintenance program; reconstruction
of a 19 Km. road and technical assistance. Technical assistance is being
provided satisfactorily for the nationwide maintenance program. Purchase
of 95 percent of the maintenance equipment has been made. Works on the
reconstruction of the Puente Rio Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road are now
proceeding satisfactorily, after an initial 3 nonth delay.
Loan 1325-DO      Population and Family Health; $5.0 million loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the construction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for cotmmunity based contraception
programs, and technical assistance. Construction of the health sub-center
and ten rural clinics has been completed. The Bank has approved the contract
for construction of the remaining 16 clinics. Fellowships for nursing students
are being provided. The first group of medica:L students has been sent to
rural areas for two-month periods of practice. However, the community-based
health family program is progressing slowly. The program was to include the
definition of the levels of medical attention in rural areas, training of the
Secretariat of Health personnel, and preparation of a health manual, plus
improvements in the data system.
Loan 1655-DO      Second Irrigation Project:  $Z7.0 million loan of
February 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The terminal date of effectiveness has been extended to September 16,
1979 to permit the Government additional time to fulfill conditions of loan
effectiveness.
Loan P-2501-DO   Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project:  $25 million
loan of            Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan cannot be signed without congressional approval.
Congressional sessions began on August 16. It is expected that the project
will be approved shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I    -    Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First Presentation to Bank:         October 17, 1977
(b)  First Bank Mission to Identify   November 5, 1977
the project:
(c)  Agency which prepared project:   Consejo Estatal del Azucar and
FAO/CP
(d)  Preappraisal Mission:               September 4, 1978
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:  October 23, 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         July 20, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   December 1979
II   -    Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
III  -    Special Conditions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements:
(a) The Government would provide technical assistance through its
Ministry of Agriculture, to outgrowers phasing out of cane produc-
tion, on alternative crops and extension services for diversification
and would use retired cane lands for research and experimental
activities, and for priority projects including the settlement of
landless workers (para. 39).
(b) CEA would prepare and submit a report to the Bank by December 31,
1980 describing a training program for selected members of its staff
and providing a timetable for its execution (para. 41).
(c) CEA would pay a guarantee fee to the government, raising the
effective cost of the proposed loan to CEA to 10 percent per annum
in dollars, and the Government would assume the foreign exchange
risk of non-dollar currencies (para. 43).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government would make a capital contribution to CEA equivalent
to US$15 million, eighty percent of which would be provided
not later than three years after signing of the Loan Agreement
(para. 43).
(e) The Government would assist CEA in obtaining additional financing
needed from time to time to finance CEA's operational costs
(para. 43).
(f) The Government would review every two years, beginning October 31,
1981, cane and sugar prices received by outgrowers and retailers
(para. 58).
(g)  CEA would undertake a study within one year of the date of the
Loan Agreement to determine the adequacy of the interest rate
charged on loans to outgrowers, and would undertake measures to
recover or write off by January 31, 1982 loans in arrears to out-
growers for more than one year (para i1).
(h) CEA would prepare and submit to the Bank three year Annual
Maintenance and Capital Expenditures Plans.  CEA would carry
out its maintenance operations and capital expenditures consistently
with its plans (para. 62).
(i) CEA would not incur any debt over one year unless its consolidated
net revenues for the fiscal year preceding, or for a later twelve
month period prior to the incurrence of any debt, would not be
greater than 2 times the debt service requirements on all debt;
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.3 to 1 at all times until the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1982, and of not less than 1.5 to I thereafter;
and for purposes of carrying out its maintenance and capital
investment plans and meeting its debt service obligations allocate
to reserves not less than 40 percent of its surplus in each fiscal
year (para. 62).
(j) Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(i)  the hiring of engineering consu:tants for the project
sugar factories in accordance w:.th Bank guidelines
(para. 37).
(ii) the execution of a contract by CEA for the private bank
loan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 44).
(iii) the elimination of the sugar subsidy derived from sugar
sales in the domestic market to the Dominican Electricity
Corporation (CDE) (para. 57).



-30 -
~~ 30 -               ~~ANNEX IV
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Skewed Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due                             Payment of Principal
On each January 1 and July 1
Beginning January 1, 1984
Through July 1, 1989                                    450
On each January 1 and July 1
Beginning January 1, 1990
Through January 1, 1996                               2,110
On July 1, 1996                                         2,170



IBRD14080
7'1                                                                  7'MARCH 1979
MONTE =RISTI  -                                           ro,o                                                        DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
PUE;TO PLATA                        SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                  ( u oehome
, "Y .                         Villo Vorpoer    to Coo                                                                              L~joo    of Sjgnr Estates                                                               S;A               NECp nroloAN
00                                       Rio Gt==.:                        1 t:roode  GoSpoREi-ZE                                                                                       JAAAAICA  HAIT  ob-nI 0r0-
>&  JiAr-  _  os  JuandeHerrero q CanstanzampsHIsos a\ r;P tboyez0tR I,AsernsHeri o d r
MOCA: |\ iSALCEDO  ~     0~G                    NAJUAN                                                 6 t;\ Pedral; i <) r rJMat 9' l SALV  RAdUA
Ph, COSTAroeror.r 0iSIe~oo~00
't.o~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
g r 9 ;;; E JOI Wy;!;  >>rz   \  g     1    <           /gSrorPotreo erdlo ROOOOI  Vr                  oSSt,er                             Saeta/maero,/sSerlo5eatCue                                                                       18
deL. Vloto4                                                                             th,A,e~s
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~io SAodrs Neoro /ere Con Sorc Coqer 12                                                            Pt                                                             GUL  AN W_ STER
u 'j !+4 Polo / : zPRPJ~~~~~~~~~EXItMPNNS) ;:::\:jCTINGO SUGAR ES1TATES                                                       Peico  onone7Sso
PE9ERNA.Eg   <   /t                                  Suornr Estchrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .                          Ineain 5irero Bnnpre                                          VICINIrr
d,.  nt-                                                                                                                                                      Sobono do Lo M__ f  /E  *) *  4r 5B  l erclL
CAN JUAN                               dEAiero          Met MRRS                                                 E                        S   rv nir
\L                                                                                                                                              Yic.n 131441'i0KE ib 20  30  l9Mrrtpeyin
d2. 36eona /5  *   Existino Sugor irri-5-MlteS                                                20         3il          i2 Monh LL n70'
90010 iS  71'                                                                                                                                    69~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
72e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



