7/ 4j72¿-'  ji:(
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2468b-DO
STAFF APE'RAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
August. 29, 1979
Projects Department
Latin Amnerica and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =   Dominican Peso (RD$)
US$1.00        =   RD$ 1.00
RD$ 1 Million  =   US$1 Million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)                 =   15.9 national tareas
=   13.2 English tareas
100 kilogram (kg) per hectare      13.8 pounds per national tarea
=   16.7 pounds per English tarea
1 m ton per hectare            =   1.38 quintales per national tarea
=   1.32 quintales per English tarea
1 m ton                        =   2.2 quintales
1 m ton                        =   1.1 short ton
1 kg                           =   2.2 pounds
1 liter                        =   0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
BA        Agricultural Bank
CDE       Dominican Electric Corporation
CEA       State Sugar Council
CECARA    Agrarian Reform Training Center
CEDOPEX   Dominican Center for Promotion of Exports
EDP       Electronic Data Processing
FDD       Dominican Development Foundation
FEDOCA    Dominican Federation of Cane Outgrowers
IAD       Agrarian Reform Institute
INAZUCAR  National Sugar Institute
INDRHI    National Water Resources Institute
INESPRE   Dominican Planning Office
ISA       International Sugar Agreement
ONAPLAN   National Planning Office
SEA       Secretariat of State for Agriculture
SIEDRA    Natural Resource Research and Evaluation System
STP       Technical Secretariat to the Presidency
USBR      United States Bureau of Reclamation
STATE SUGAR COUNCIL
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUGAR REHAILBITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .. .............................   1
A. General                            ...  1
B.   Supporting Institutíons ...... ................                 3
C.   Agricultural Policy ............... ..................   4
II.   THE SUGAR SUBSECTOR                     ...............................   ...  5
A.   General ..................................    5
B.   The Sugar Industry ...............................              7
III.   THE PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING             ..............  12
A. Brief Description .             .         ...... ............. 13
B.   Detailed Features ..         .....................   14
C.   Implementation Schedule .............................   16
D.   Cost Estimates ..       .     ..................   17
E.   Financing .       ..........................  ......... ...    18
F.   Procurement ..       ...............................   20
G.   Disbursement ....................................   20
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................  21
A.   Project Management .................................   21
B.   Consulting Services .................................   22
C.   Training .        ................................   24
D.   Monitoring and Reporting ........ ....................  24
E.   Accounts and Audits . .................................  25
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING ...... ..................  25
A.   Production ............ ...............................  25
B.   Markets and Marketing ............................   28
C.   Pricing of Cane ..... ...............................  30
VI.   CEA FINANCIAL BACKGROUND AND PROJECTIONS ....           .............  31
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUST]IFICATION ......................  36
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... .....  39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Dominican Republic in October/November 1978. This mission comprised Messrs.
W. Ringlien, G. Soto, F. Lucca, J. Martinod, and A. Funes (Bank); T. Chinloy
(IFC); ancl 0. de Aragon and A. Webre (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theiir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1     O~,Sd,sar Factories Detailed Equipment Description and Costs    43
TaDle 1 - Timetable for Equipment Ordering and
Installation at Ozama Estate .................   48
Table 2 - Detailed Equipment Description and Costs .......  49
2     Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers for Sugar
Factories .50
3     Irrigation and Drainage in Barahona Sugar Estate .53
Table 1 - Detailed Cost Estimates .60
4     Program for Reduction of Gane Areas in the Project Sugar
Estates       ....................................   61
Table 1 - Detailed Cost Estimates ........................  73
5     Agricultural and Harvesting Mechanization Pilot Research
in Boca Chica Sugar Estate .............................  75
Table 1 - Performance and Physical Characteristics at
Boca Chica Sugar Estate .....    .................  82
Table 2 - Detailed Cost Estimates ........................  83
6     Pilot Study for Payment to Outgrowers Based on Sucrose
Content .85
Table 1 - Outgrowers Serving Monte Llano Sugar Estate       88
7     Terms of Reference for Management Consultants  . .89
8     Terms of Reference for Consultants for Transportation
Technical Assistance .....     ................   93
9     Table 1 - Number of Outgrowers and Size of Cane Area on
Project  Estates  ..............................    101
Table 2 - Detailed Transportation Equipment Costs and
Description  ..................................    102
Table 3 - Estimated Baseline Costs for Consultants and
Related  Services  .............................    103
Table 4 - Financial Analysis of CEA:
Page 1 - Part A:  Income Statements ....  ........ 104
Page 2 - Part A:  Sources and Applications of
Funds   ........................  105
Page 3 - Part A:  Balance Sheets ....   ........... 106
Page 4 - Part B:  Income Statements based on
Sensitivity Test ............. 107
Page 5 - Part B:  Sources and Applications of
Funds based on Sensitivity
Test   .........................  108
Page 6 - Part B: Balance Sheets based on
Sensitivity  Test  .... .........   109
Page 7 - Notes to the Financial Statements .....   110
Table 5 - Economic Analysis: Incremental Cost and
Benefit Streams ....  ........ 112



iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Pare No.
ANNEXES
9     Chart 1 - Organizational Chart of CEA Headquarters .......  113
Chart 2 - Project Implementation Schedule ...o* ....o........  114
Chart 3 - Implementation Schedule for Sugar Factories ....  115
Chart 4 - Implementation Schedule for Transport Equipment
and Works ....*....*s*...o..o....  116
Chart 5 - Present Values of Cost and Benefit Streams
Against Discount Rates           .               117
10     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.   118
MAP IBRD 14080






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture has traditiona].ly been, and continues to be, the most
important sector in the Dominican Republic's economy. Abou.t 55% of the
country's 5 million people live in rural areas and agriculture provides
employment for over half the economic:ally active population.. Per capita
rural income averages about one-third. of urban income. In 1978, the sector
contributed 17% to GDP and 70% to the total value of commodities exported in
constant 1970 prices. Agricultural production since 1960 has grown at an
average 2.7% per annum with higher growth in food crops (4.6%) and in livestock
(4.9%). More recently, during the 1973-77 period, agricultural production
grew only 1.4% per annum but 1978 was a good year in agriculture as production
grew 7.2% over 1977 with crops increaesing by 6.6% and livestock by 8.4%.
1.02      Traditional agricultural exports, mainly sugar, coffee, cocoa and
tobacco, accounted for US$436 million in 1978. Because of low prices, sugar
and its by-products represented only 41% of this sum; with recent trend
prices, the share has been much higher. Non-traditional agricultural exports,
which accounted for a total value of US$46 million, consist mainly of vege-
tables, fruit, processed coffee and mneat, principally for the US, Puerto
Rico, and Virgin Islands markets. In spite of the gains achieved in food
crop production, imports of foodstuffs have increased substantially, growing
from 1972 to 1977 at an annual rate of about 16% in 1978 prices. Because
lack of adequate lands for food crop production constitutes a major constraint,
Government has invested heavily in irrigation infrastructure to permit arid
areas to be brought under cultivatiori. The Bank is playing an important and
timely role in such irrigation projec.ts (para 1.06).
1.03      Sugar exports play a key role in the Dominican economy providing
important foreign exchange and employment for the country (para 7.01).
Over the last five years, 1974-78, the sugar industry has contributed over
10% of Government's total current revenues through export taxes.  In addi-
tion, it pays a corporate income tax to Government, and the State Sugar
Council (CEA), a Government sugar company, transfers all its profits to
Government after meeting its capital replacement and maintenance needs.
During the sugar boom of 1974/75, the substantial financial resources pro-
vided by this expanding sugar industry enabled the Dominican Republic to
embark on a series of public sector social and productive investment projects.
Because of its vital importance to the Dominican economy, the proposed
project has high priority and Government has focused on reh.abilitating its
sugar company, CEA, over the past six years during which time it has engaged
in a series of project identification and preparation studies (para 3.01).



-2-
Resources
1.04      The quality of soil and water resources in the Dominican Republic is
generally adequate for agricultural purposes, but, due to geographic limita-
tions, e.g., arid regions and mountains, these resources need to be effectively
utilized if the country is to achieve its full agricultural potential. Approxi-
mately 20% of the country is classified as a dry zone where supplemental
irrigation is necessary for agricultural development; 15% is considered an
intermediate zone where supplemental irrigation is desirable, but not essen-
tial; and the remaining 65% is a humid zone without a moisture deficit but it
is mostly mountainous and therefore suitable only for forestry or permanent
tree crops. Population growth and the resulting increase in demand for
agricultural products generate strong competition between food and industrial
crops for the use of limited agricultural resources and emphasize the need
for increasing productivity per unit area, particularly for extensive crops
such as cane.
Land Use and Farm Size
1.05      The Dominican Republic has about 2.74 million ha in farm land, most
of which are in pasture (about 1.5 million ha), although a third could be
cropped intensively. The principal explanation for this is that the agrarian
reform law permits larger holdings when the land is devoted to pasture than
when it is in rice or other crops. About 250,000 ha have been expropriated
by Government and are largely unproductive, awaiting development and distri-
bution, and another 190,000 ha are owned by the three sugar companies for
growing cane. The remaining 800,000 ha of usable land are divided into
nearly 300,000 farms that produce most of the foodstuffs. Small size farms
(less than 5 ha) account for between 10 and 15% of farm land while farms above
200 ha occupy 38%.
Bank Role in Agriculture
1.06      The role of the Bank in the agricultural sector has been aimed at
improvement of agricultural output and better land distribution. The Bank
group has to date financed a livestock development project and two irrigation
projects in the agricultural sector of the Dominican Republic. Regarding
the livestock development project, the Project Performance Audit Report dated
May 10, 1978 concluded that the project performance was satisfactory and that
the project contributed considerably to increases in dairy and beef production;
livestock productivity has also increased but may have fallen slightly short
of appraisal expectations. The first of the two irrigation projects, Yaque
del Norte, was approved by IDA in 1973 and aims at increasing food crops and,
in part, at settling farm workers on land by providing irrigation and drainage
to approximately 23,000 ha. The project suffered considerable delays at the
beginning in recruiting consultants, in acquiring rights of way, and in
carrying out land redistribution and farm consolidation in the project area.
The Government has recently submitted a bill to Congress for its approval,
which would, inter alia, give authority to the Executive Branch to establish a
ceiling on holdings for each state irrigated system. It is expected that the
bill would be approved by Congress not later than December 31, 1979. Approxi-
mately 20% of the contracted works was completed by May 1979. However, all
works are expected to be completed by the first half of 1982. The second



-3-
irrigation project, Nizao, aíms at increasing agricultural productivity,
increasing exports, and improving the standard of living of some 3,200 families.
Increases in agricultural output are all in food crops, mainly fruit8 and
vegetables for export as well as local consumption; the project ¡s a major
thrust to increase food ;tvailability in the country. The Loan Agreement was
signed in January 1979 and is expected to become effective in the fall of
1979. These irrigation projects are complementary to each other and seek to
provide the country with increased food supplies. They are in line with the
Bank's country lending objectives.
B. Supporting Institutions
Agricultural Services
1.07      The Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA) is responsible for
overall agricultural planning, as well as research and extension and other
general responsibilities normal to an agricultural ministry; land reform is
the responsibility of the Agrarian Reform Institute (IAD); irrigation is
implemented and managed by the Nai:tonal Water Resources Institute (INDRHI);
and agricultural credit is channeled through the Government-owned Agricultural
Bank (BA). Cane production is handled by CEA and two private companies and
is discussed in Chapter 11.
1.08      The Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA).  SEA's effectiveness
has tradítionally been constrained by, among other things, a lack of coordi-
nation between it anid other agencies in the agricultural sector, particularly
INDRHI and CEA. However, efforts are! being made to improve the situation
largely through the establishment in 1977 of a Planning Department in SEA.
Other steps to increase SEA's effectiveness include the formation of decen-
tralized extension services and a supervised credit program for farmers'
associations and small farmers.
1.09      The Agrarian Reform Instittute (IAD).  IAD selects land reform benefi-
elaries and settles them on Governmernt land, providing them with infrastruc-
ture and services such as roads, landL clearing, irrigation canals, extension
and credit. Farm land is transferredL from the private sector to Government
through the cuota parte system. 1/  In addition, IAD operates a uiumber of
state farms which are operated as cooperatives. In 1977, IAD staff numbered
450 in SarLto Domingo and 230 in the field. IAD's effectiveness has been
traditionally limited by its slownesEs in issuing land titles, its lack of
funds to settle farmers in expropriated lands, and the frequent changes or
proposed changes in laws governing agrarian reform.  The agency is presently
in the process of reorganization and will place emphasis in future on the
c)rganizatíon of a new type of cooperative association of small farmers.
1.10      The National Water Resources Institute (INDRHI).  INDRHI defines
and evaluates water project proposals, constructs irrigation systems, and
is responsible for operation and mairitenance of publicly owned irrigation
works. Small irrigation systems are constructed under force account and
1/   Under this system, land owners return to Government between 25% and
Q'% r-)f their lands, depending on present land use, in payment for the
increased valuo nf ttheir lands brought about by irrigation.



-4-
larger ones are built by contractors, with INDRHI acting as the counterpart
agency. Irrigation systems of public sugar estates, such as that in Barahona,
are managed by CEA, but INDRHI provides assistance upon request by the
corresponding sugar estate.
1.11      In recent years, Government has placed a high priority on construc-
tion of new irrigation systems, which have increased INDRHI's construction
capabilities but the operation and maintenance needs have grown faster
than INDRHI's ability to meet them. The impact of the agricultural projects
carried out by INDRHI has been seriously affected by lack of coordination
between it and other agencies in the field, such as SEA, IAD, CEA and BA.
Efforts are now being made to correct this weakness.
1.12      The Agricultural Bank (BA).  BA and commercial banks are the
principal sources of institutional credit to agriculture, except for cane
outgrowers whose source of credit is the corresponding sugar estate. Together,
these banks have in recent years provided over 90% of institutional credit
to the sector, with the remainder coming from investment finance companies
and special institutions such as the Dominican Development Foundation (FDD).
BA obtains its funds through capital transfers from the Government and
from foreign sources. While institutional credit provided by commercial
banks and investment finance companies has primarily benefited medium and
large farmers, informal credit provided by money lenders, marketing agents,
rice mills and local store owners has gone to small farmers. BA and FDD
mainly serve small farmers. Under the new administration, the role of BA is
being reviewed in an effort to expand its present activities in assisting
small farmers.
Pricing and Marketing
1.13      Other institutions having a direct effect on the agricultural
sector are the Dominican Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE), which is
responsible for regulating and stabilizing prices for a dozen commodities 1/,
and the Dominican Center for Promotion of Exports (CEDOPEX), which promotes
non-traditional exports with technical assistance in marketing and a líne
of credit for working capital needs. INESPRE controls the legal marketing
of all rice, beans and sugar. In recent years, domestic prices of basic
foodstuffs have been allowed to rise substantially, particularly for rice
and vegetable oil, and are considerably higher than import CIF costs.
C. Agricultural Policy
1.14      Agricultural policy in the Dominican Republic is implemented through
the combined programs of SEA, IAD and CEA. Together, these agencies encompass
the private agricultural sector, Government-settled farmers, and the cane
industry, the principal agricultural activity in the country. The coordina-
tion of the programs of these three institutions lies largely in the Technical
1/   Sugar, rice, beans, corn, onions, garlic, chickpeas, plantains, bananas,
potatoes, peanut oil and soybean oil.



Secretariat to the Presidency (STP), which is also in charge of project-
oriented expatriate technical assistance. Responsibility for some specific
development projects, including or related to agricultural development, and
particularly for those concerned with natural resource development, is turned
over by the STP to the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN).
1.15      The agricultural policy of the new administration is still not fully
developed, but a 1978-82 development plan which has been submitted by SEA
for consideration by the Presidency is expected to emphasize production of
food crops and development of agroindustry. To complement this policy, IAD
promotes the establishment of agrarian cooperative enterprises, devoted mainly
to food crops and industrl.al crops 1/, and CEA is initiating a program to
increase productivity and reduce areas in cane (para 3.08), thus releasing
lands to support the food crop programs. In addition, efforts are being made
to expand and diversify agricultural production.
1.16      Expansion of agrictultural areas is also part of the Government's
strategy, as indicated by ongoing regional development studies being conducted
by ONAPLAN and projects being considered for the development of the southwest,
the Azua plain (IAD) and the l3wer Yuna valley (INDRHI).  In an effort to
provide a basis for regionai planning, SEA is trying to establish a system for
evaluation of agricultural areas. 2/ This project is being executed with
financing from USAID and technical assistance from Michigan State University.
II. THE SUGAR SUBSECTOR
A. General
2.01      The Dominican Rep.ublic is well suited to cane production.  Its sub-
tropical climate, with rel¿it:ively small changes in temperature (average 25 0C)
and an average rainfall in t:he central and eastern regions of about 1,500 mm,
and its well structured clay and clay loam soils and productive alluvial
deposits lend themselves to high crop productivity and high sucrose yields.
Long daylight hours (averaging 11.03 to 13.27 per day) also contribute to
cane growth and sucrose content of the crop.
2.02      Cane occupied aboutt 12% of total cultivated lands and sugar contri-
buted 32% of total exports i.n 1978.  There are 16 operating sugar estates, 12
of which are administered by CEA and four by the private sector consisting of
the Vicini group, which operates three estates, and Gulf and Western Corpora-
tion, which has one.  Incluiding seasonal workers, the subsector accounts for
about 60% of the labor foree in the manufacturing industry and provides even
1/   The IAD program inclttdes an Agrarian Reform Training Center (CECARA)
in Santiago with capacity for training 60,000 small farmers in the
next five years.
2/   Natural Resource Re!search and Evaluation System (SIEDRA).



-6-
more employment indirectly through transport, trade and other services gener-
ated. Taxes on sugar from 1974 to 1978 averaged about 10% of current Government
revenue; this percentage has been reduced as a result of a new export tax law
of 1978. Hence, fluctuations in sugar output and prices, such as have occurred
after the -ecent sugar boom, are important determinants of economic conditions
in the country.
2.03      The Dominican sugar industry is characterized by a widespread use
of subcontractors and hired labor imported from Haiti for fíeld operations.
According to official data, about 15,000 workers are brought into the country
annually for seasonal manual labor, but, unofficially, the figure could be as
high as 30,000. The high labor requirement is due to the low level of mechani-
zation but this has provided a distinct advantage fc,r cane processing because
of the low proportion of trash, leaves and tops thai: reach the mill. It
has also resulted in high overall average factory yLeld (11.54 sucrose content
for 1972-78). However, these gains are offset by h.igh losses of cane in
the fields and uncertainty about labor availability.
2.04      Overall cane yield per cultivated hectare, 45.5 m ton per ha, has
declined by nearly 5% annually over the 1963-65 to l973-75 seasons. Discre-
pancies in information from different sources are due to the poor quality
of data reported and the fact that an increasing portion of the cultivated
area is not being harvested because of limited processing capacity and limi-
tations on export quotas, in line with the International Sugar Agreement
(ISA).
2.05      With full utilization of the present capacity of sugar factories
in the country, production could total about 1.33 million a ton of raw sugar
(840,000 m ton by CEA, 400,000 m ton by La Romana, and 90,000 m ton by the
Vicini group).  In 1976, this volume was achieved by all milis except La
Romana, which is estimated to have produced about 17% below its capacity
because of raw material shortage as a result of drought. Overall capacity,
however, is expected to decline as a result of the i.ncreasing deterioration of
factory and transport equipment, combined with incrE!ases in production costs.
2.06      The main by-product of the sugar industry is molasses and its
derivatives, which are used directly for animal feeIiíng or industrially for
production of alcohol and baker's yeast.  Total pro,duction of molasses in
1977 reached 308 million liters, of which 55% was e:Kported, 26% was used
directly, and 19% was sold for domestic industrial uises,  In addition,
La Romana, using its surplus bagasse, is the second largest producer of
furfural (a liquid aldehyde used in making resins fer nylon production) in
the world (34,346 m ton in 1977).
2.07      Government, with financing from UNDP, is uiidertaking research on
alternative uses of surplus cane that may result froni long-term yield
improvements and quota limitations on the export of sugar, as well as on
alternative uses of by-products of the sugar industry. These possibilities
include particle board, pulp and paper, alcohol and ai-cohol derivatives,
including extensive market studies.  Also, with FAO/UNDP, the Government is
engaged in an experimental program for the direct use of cate as feed for
cattle in dairy and meat production.



-- 7 -
2.08      Two institutions--the National Sugar Institute (INAZUCAR) and
INESPRE--are directly concerned with the pricing and marketing of sugar.
INAZUCAR has the responsibility to review national sugar policy, recommend
sugar and molasses pricing and marketing policy to the Government, and ensure
compliance with the law by producers and marketers. INAZUCAR was founded
in 1965 by Law 618, and its board is formed by the Secretaries of Finance
(President) and Agriculture, representatives of the three major producers
(CEA, La Romana, and Vicini group), and one representative of the outgrowers
and one of labor. This institute is mainly instrumental in undertaking sugar
marketing surveys, assisting Government authorities in negotiations concerning
price and tariff with nations importing Dominican sugar, promoting the use of
sugar by the industries that manufacture sugar-derived products, analyzing
ways to upgrade cane quality and manufacturing productivity and supervising
compliance with the ISA requirements. Sugar exports are carried out directly
by the public and private sugar companies but are subject to approval by
INAZUCAR. The institute also publishes a monthly statist:Lcal bulletin and a
journal providing information related to the sugar subsecitor. INESPRE is in
charge of sugar distribution for domestic consumption and assures wholesaling
and retailing compliance with domestic price regulation. Local sugar prices
have been kept below international prices. The sugar produced is transferred
from manufacturing plants to a network of INESPRE regional warehouses from
where it ¡a periodically sold to wholesalers according to quotas based on a
national study of demand.
B. The Sugar Industry
2.09      The Dominican sugar industry comprises three major groups:  the
private sugar industry with two producers, La Romana and the Vicini group;
the Government-owned CEA; and the cane outgrowers, a large number of indi-
vidual farmers who produce cane and deliver it for milling at either a private
or a CEA-operated mill. See Map IBRD 14080 for location of all sugar estates
in the Dominican Republic.
Private Sugar Industry
2.10      Gulf and Western Corporation, a United States-based company,
owns and operates La Romana, a large estate (71,200-ha harvested area) with
a 400,000-m-ton-per-annum-capacity sugar factory which accounted for about 28%
of all sugar production in the 1974-78 period. It is the most efficient
sugar company in the country, although it 15 located in the eastern part of
the Dominican Republic where raín is sparse and soíls are relatively poor.
Good management and organization, combined with regular investment programs
and adequate maintenance of field and factory equipment, are given credit for
the company's successful operation. Apart from its regular re-investment
program to replace worn out equipment, La Romana has no medium-term plans
for expansion of cane processing capacity.
2.11      A Dominican enterprise, the Vicini group, owns and operates three
sugar estates in the southern and central part of the country, the Cristobal
Colon, Angelina and Cae¡. These are considerably smaller than La Romana and
their total production averages about 80,000 m ton per year, or about 7% of



- 8 -
the country's sugar output. In 1978, the Vicini group rebuilt the railway
system and modernized the factory at its Cristobal Colon estate and plans to
renovate the Caei factory. This modernization program is to replace deterío-
rated equipment in the transportation systems and in the sugar factories with
a view to decreasing unit costs of production and avoiding majnr equipment
breakdowns; it is not a program to increase the long-term cane processing
capacity of these sugar estates.
Government-owned Sugar Industry
2.12      The State Sugar Council (CEA).  Created by Law 7 of August 20, 1966,
CEA administers the 12 sugar estates in public ownership. It is governed by
a Board of Directors, the members of which represent the Government, the
outgrowers, and private industry and labor, with the Secretary of Finance as
chairman. Day-to-day operations are managed by the Executive Director of
CEA, who also serves on the Board. Until recently, 20 heads of departments,
in addition to the administrators of the estates, in effect, reported directly
to the Executive Director. Currently, the organizational set-up of CEA is
undergoing change based on the ITALCONSULT studies of 1966 and may be further
revised following the organizational studies proposed under the Bank loan
(Annex 9, Chart 1). In addition to the organizational difficulties of
CEA, it is continuing to be handicapped by the lack of an Electronic Data
Processing (EDP) system through which information could be tabulated and
organized for use in decision making; much data is recorded but practically
none is used. CEA has virtually no personnel policy and no job descriptions
of technical staff or staff that is trained to carry out production activities
efficiently. The latter deficiency makes it necessary for supervisory personnel
to do the work of unskilled technical staff, thereby diluting the supervisory
functions in the fíeld as well as in the factory. Finally, CEA does no
medium-term planning of cane production or of transportation and factory
activities, which is reflected in excess cane, and transportation and factory
b-reakdowns.
2.13      Under the constitution of CEA, any profit after payment of production
costs, export and income taxes, and a reserve for maintenance and development,
is divided in the proportion of 60:40 between the Government and the factory
workers. This profit-sharing arrangement, together with payments for export
levies and taxes, and the subsidization of the Dominican Electric Corporation
from out of the spread on domestic sugar prices (para 5.08) has left CEA with
insufficient funds to adequately replace capital assets and, therefore,
resulted in serious deterioration of factories and the transport system.
CEA is presently in a difficult financial position (para 6.01). Its deficit
for 1977 was reported to be around US$26 million after taxes, partly attri-
butable to low prices of sugar in the world market but also to increasing
production costs and the serious managerial problems mentioned.
2.14      Research and Extension.  CEA provides research on cane technology
through one of its divisions, the Duquesa Research Station, which has an
annual budget of RD$ 700,000 and comprises an administrative section and
six technical departments (soils, plant pathology, entomology, weed control,
varieties and agro-climatology) under a technical director. A small cane
breeding program is in progress, and fuzz and seedlings are obtained from



-9-
the Barbados breeding station under an agreement.  Investigations are also
being carried out on the biological control of the cane borer (Diatreae
Saccharalis), and field tríals are being made on estates to provide bases
for recommendations regarding fertilizers and varieties. The resulta of
this research, however, fail to reach the outgrowers or even the CEA estates
because there ia no system to transmit such information and no extension
service of any significance.
2.15      ARricultural Credit.  Outgrowers having delivery contracts with
CEA receive short-term credit for their production requirements at an annual
interest rate of 8%, lower than the present commercial rates of 9% to 12%
for agricultural production credit. The loans with interesl: computed for
the whole year are deducted when settlement of cane payments ¡8 made toward
the end of the calendar year. The production quota per farmer, on which the
credit is based, is determined by the local estate administration. To be
eligible for credit, the farmer must own a minimum of 5.5 ha. Smaller
farmers, therefore, usually sell their cane to the larger outgrowera. The
majority of the farmers using this type of credit fall in the category of
small- (1 to 40 ha) or medium- (40 to 80 ha) scale outgrowers.
2.16      Cane Production.  Cane milled in CEA-administered factories is
produced on 12 Government-owned estates, also under CEA administration.
These estates correspond to the 12 CEA factories:  Amistad, Esperanza and
Monte Llano, located in the north; Barahona in the west; Catarey in the
center; Rio Haina, Boca Chica and Ozama in the south (also known as the
triangle area); and Consuelo, Porvenir, Quisqueya and Santa Fe in the east.
Exactly how much land is under cane in these estates is not known because
CEA lacks an updated cadaster. However, between 1970 and 1978, cane acreage
continued to grow from 143,000 ha to 212,000 ha, of which about 49% belongs
to outgrowers. An appreciable proportion of this area is on unsuitable ter-
raín, which should eventually be used for other crops or pasture. Not all
the cane area is reaped annually, as total production exceeds factory capa-
city, particularly in the Boca Chica, Ozama and Rio Haina estates. To accom-
modate to some extent to this situation, some eastern CEA estates that are
linked by railroad process some of each others' cane as necessary.
2.17      Cane yields in the CEA estates vary considerably, dependíng on
the physical conditions and standard of management. The average yields range
between 35 m ton per ha in Porvenir to 116 m ton per ha in Barahona, which is
fully irrigated. The overall average yield for all cane ground at CEA fac-
tories (45.0 m ton per ha) is slightly below those achieved by the Vicini
group (46.5 m ton per ha) and by La Romana (45.5 m ton per ha). Outgrowers'
yields are generally about 20% lower than the average on CGE estates. Consid-
ering the land and water resources, particularly in the west, center and
triangle estates, there is considerable room for increasing productivity in
the best areas of the CEA lands through better cultural methods, improved cane
varieties, more use of irrigation and more attention to irrigation and drainage
practices.
2.18      The 11,500-ha Barahona sugar estate, the only fulLy irrigated CEA
estate, presents a unique problem to cane production. Increasing salinity
and growing deterioration of the existing irrigation and drainage scheme



- 10 -
have reduced the productive area and lowered cane yields. From an average
production of 825,480 m ton in recent years (1970-76), with a maximum of
904,680 m ton in 1974, cane milled in 1978 dropped to 630,180 m ton; never-
theless, Barahona still accounts for more than 6% of the country's sugar
production
2.19      Mechanical cultivation is generally carried out by contractors
but supervision of their work is inadequate and there is little or a¿) attempt
to adjust cultivation practices to suit individual field conditions. Cane
is manually cut and, in most cases, manually loaded.  A few estates use
push-piler-type mechanical loaders.
2.20      While the manual system of cane harvesting and loading results in
cane of outstanding cleanliness and reasonable freshness, there is consider-
able waste if caretul field supervision is not provided. In addition, there
is an ever present threat of a shortage of Haitian laborers whose availability
varíes according to the state of relations between the two countries. In some
of the CEA estates, various modifications of the traditional system have been
introduced, but as no effort has been made to monitor the technical or economic
results there is no basis for extending anv one practice to all the estates.
2.21      Cane Transportation.  Transportation of cane in the Dominican Republic
has been traditionally carried out by ox carts from field to railroad siding
and by rail to the mill yards.  The railroads are owned and operated by the
sugar estates. In the last two decades, tractors have complemented ox carts
in bringing cane from the field to the railroad and truck sidings and, in some
instances, directly to the mill yard, thus increasing the economical distance
of field to factory from 1.5 km with oxen to about 5 km with a tractor and
expanding the cane area that feeds a railroad or truck loading station or
reducing the number of loading stations needed. At present, the majority of
CEA factories, as well as private ones, receive some cane by direct field haul,
but, in some cases, the distances are too great for this to be economical.
2.22      An even more difficult and costly problem is cane storage.  In
general, estates that operate railroads have found that having sufficient cars
to hold cane for night grinding is the ideal solution, but smaller bulk yards
which serve as surge bins and where cane is kept the shortest possible time
are more common and usually operate in conjunction with other storage on
wheels or partial around-the-clock cane delivery. In the larger CEA estates,
road transportation has been helpful since cane can be obtained from areas too
dístant from rail sidings for economic transport by field carts or from areas
where the volume of cane is too low to warrant construction of a branch
line.
2.23      An efficient, economical transport system is essential to the
effective operation of the sugar industry. The deficiencies of the present
system result in lost time in the factories and loss of sucrose content
through delays in delivery. Also, repair facilities on the CEA estates
are technically obsolete, with limited equipment and insufficient tools, and
the personnel assigned to such work do not have the necessary training or
proper supervision. An additional problem is that there is little standard-
ization of cars and parts among the variotus estates and, in some instances,



- 11 -
even within a single estate. The link between fíeld and factory is vital
to the industry and failure to improve it could render less effective other
efforts to íncrease productivity and capacíty.
2.24      Sugar Production.  After a temporary reduction in the 1965/66
period, caused by political unrest in the country, sugar production in the
Dominican Republic steadily increased to reach a level of 1L.1 million m
ton in 1971 and 1.4 million m ton in 1978.  During the 1971L-77 period, total
CEA production increased from 0.70 rmillion m ton to 0.81 minllion m ton, an
increase of about 15%. In the same períod, however, according to FAO/CP
estimates, total cane milled increased by 18%, reflecting a drop in overall
factory yield of sugar from cane fromi 11.81% to 10.84%.  This drop in yield
has been caused by a deterioration in cane quality, accompanied by a reduction
in factory recoveries. Gane quality has declined because f-actories have had
to operate beyond the season of optirnum cane maturity and because the propor-
tion of stale cane has increased as a result of longer hauling distances and
a rapidly deteriorating transportation system. The reduction of factory
recoveries can be traced to poorer cane quality and to the fact that efficiency
has gone clown as a result of processing quantities of cane in excess of design
capacity.
2.25      Witlh insufficient replacement investments and lack of time for
proper maintenance during grinding seasons that run up to 250 days, factory
equipment has grown old and is now in poor condition. As a result, CEA
factories have relatively high rates of down-time because of breakdowns.
If long processing seasons continue, at the end of about 10 years, mainte-
nance costs will be about 150% of manufacturing costs compared to only 80%
to 90% uncler normally efficient factory conditions.  Adding to the problem
of efficient mill operations is the -Labor situation.  In recent years work
has been stopped in the factories because of a lack of cane to process
despite the fact that a supply of canie remains standing in the fields. The
main reason for this situation is the unavailability of cane cutters.  CEA
put a limit on the number of Haitian temporary workers in the hope that the
work would be done by Dominican laborers. However, local workers generally
were not interested.
2.26      The average cost of production of sugar for all CEA factories
in 1978 was US$0.235 per kg. Larger factories, such as Riol Haína, have
relatively low factory costs (US$0.225/kg) but the lowest (US$0.206/kg)
were achieved in Barahona and Consuelo, which can produce cane more cheaply
than the others. Since the cost of cane is the largest single factor for
determining the cost of producing sugar, any reduction in the amount of cane
required (currently about nine units of cane per unit of sugar for all CEA
estates) to produce 1 m ton of sugar would have a substantial effect.
Cane Outgrowers
2.27      Outgrowers are individual farmers who produce cane to be milled
by the private or CEA sugar factories. They control about 38% of the area
milled by La Romana and account for about 35% of the cane area milled by CEA
factories, representing about 33% of the cane area milled by the industry as
a whole. In the project estates, sonie 3,110 outgrowers grow cane on about
77,608 ha, most of which is in farms under 40 ha (Annex 9, Table 1). During



- 12 -
the recent sugar boom, the cane crop was expanded rapidly to lands tradition-
ally used for other crops and not always well suited to cane. In an effort
to control this sítuation, CEA has begun to examine each outgrower's contract
carefully before renewing it to ensure that areas considered marginal, either
because of low productivity or uneconomic distance to the factory or loading
site, are not being used. These efforts, however, have not been consolidated
into an overalL program aimed at area reduction and increased productivity,
which would lower production costs and free lands for other agricultural
uses.
2.28      The relationship between outgrowers and the sugar estates is regu-
lated by Law 491 of October 23, 1969, which requires that the price of cane
be related to the average selling price of sugar and lays down conditions
for financing the outgrowers by the individual CEA estates. The law also
regulates the payments to outgrowers for cane delivered and molasses produced.
Included in the provisions of Law 491 was the authority to pay a bonus for
cane that had 12% or higher sucrose content but this has seldom if ever been
done; thus, in fact, there has been no incentive to outgrowers to increase the
quality of their cane.
2.29      Outgrowers for the private factories have their own independent
associations, but the traditional associations of CEA outgrowers were recently
brought together to form the Dominican Federation of Cane Outgrowers (FEDOCA),
with an estimated membership of some 4,000 mostly small farmers, to represent
the interests of the outgrowers vis-a-vis the Government-owned industry.
FEDOCA includes seven outgrower associations: the Southern Association
(Santa Fe and Porvenir); the Northern Association (Amistad, Esperanza and
Mtonte Llano); and the individual associations corresponding to Consuelo,
Quisqueya, Ozama, Boca Chica and Rio Haina sugar estates. In 1977, a new
association (Guabatico) was formed to include outgrowers from Ozama, Boca
Chica and Rio Laina.
III.  THE PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
3.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has requested a Bank loan
of US$35 million to help finance rehabilitation of its Government-owned sugar
industry. The feasibility study for the proposed project was undertaken
by Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services and covered all CEA sugar
factories and corresponding agricultural and transportation facilities in 1975.
The objective of the study was to formulate a capital investment program for
CEA which would help rehabilitate and expand the capacity of its sugar fac-
tories and transportation system and increase the area and land productivity
of cane. However, with the dramatic decline of sugar prices after the study
was completed, it became necessary to consider scaling the project down.
Therefore, two FAO/CP missions (November 1977 and March 1978) visited the
Dominican Republic to assist the CEA in identifying and preparing a reduced
rehabilitation project. Appraisal was carried out in October-November 1978.



- 13 -
A. Brief Description
3.02      The priuary objective of the project is to improve CEA's operational
efficiency and financial situation by reducing its average production cost per
unit (in agriculture, transportation, factories and management) and by prevent-
ing costly breakdowns in the manufacturing process and in the transportation
system resulting from use of deteriorating and obsolete equipment and poor
maintenance. For example, major breakdowns of the milling tandem at Ozama or
the gearing at Rio Haina or Boca Chica would mean a loss of greater than 10%
of annual sugar output. Furthermore, the project attempts to make major
improvements in the institutional development of CEA by providing CEA with the
tools necessary to plan and arrive at decisions concerning their operations in
cane production, transportation, milling and sugar processing. The investment
would not appreciably increase total output of CEA factories but it would
permit them to keep up with domestic demand, expected to increase at about 5%
per annum. The incremental production would be 74,000 m ton of sugar in the
sixth year of the project.
3.03      To accomplish its objectives, the project would:
(a) rehabilitate the sugar lactories at Ozama, Rio Haina, Boca Chica,
Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona by replacing worn-out equipment;
(b) rehabilitate the railway track at Ozama, Rio Haina, Boca Chica,
Consuelo and Quisqueya; purchase 150 cane hauling cars, three
locomotives, telecommunications equipment and spare parts; and
construct a fully-equipped rail car repair shop;
(c) carry out irrigation and drainage studies, a cane area reduction
program, and two pilot research programs, one for mechanization
and one for measuring cane sucrose content; and
(d) provide consultants to assist CEA in reorganizing and improving
management of its headquarters and estates in the areas of
mechanizing data processing, personnel policy, training, and
planning of production.
3.04      The six project estates to be included in the project were selected
because they: (a) provide about 76% of CEA sugar output; (b) have the highest
yields in m ton/ha of cane and also have the most potential for íncreasing
yields; (c) have an agricultural resource base sufficient to allow estates
to remain in cane; and (d) have well-developed physical infrastructure and
transport systems.
3.05      CEA would be the Borrower and would implement the project, carrying
out the investment components through its Project and Special Studies Depart-
ment. Works and equipment rehabilitation would be done at the estate level,
mostly by force account except in the case of the Ozama mill where engineering
consultants and contractors would be hired. The Project Department would
coordinate all works, equipment installation and studies with the heads of
all technical departments at headquarters.



B. Detailed Features
Sugar Factories
3.06      The project would undertake major works in Ozama, Boca Chica and
Rio Haína sugar factories and minor works in Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona,
which would form a total cost of US$31.2 million, including contingencies
(Annex 1). In Ozama, a complete milling tandem would be replaced, and new
sugar processing equipment and turbo-generators would be purchased. In Boca
Chica and Rio Haina, mill turbines would be replaced and new gearing for the
mills would be installed; in addition, turbo-generators would be purchased for
Boca Chica. In Consuelo and Quisqueya, steam boilers would be purchased and
in Consuelo a cane shredder would be installed. In Barahona, the A/B centri-
fugals would be replaced. The capacity of the Ozama factory would be increased
by 58% to 230 m ton per hour (TPH), Boca Chica's capacity increased by 7.8%
to 165 TPH, and Consuelo's capacity increased by 5.2% to 202 TPH. Rio Haina
would not increase in TPH of cane but would increase factory yield by 2.2% due
to higher milling efficiency. In general, the factory component would reduce
the grinding periods and, thus, decrease per unit average production costs.
Engineering consultants would be hired to prepare equipment specifications for
project factory items and to supervise the installation of the milling tandem
and other works at the Ozama factory (Annex 2).
Transportation
3.07      The transportation component would concentrate on the rehabilitation
of about 540 km of raílway track in Rio Haina, Ozama, Boca Chica, Quisqueya
and Consuelo; total cost of equipment, materials and civil works is estimated
at US$24.1 míllion, including contingencies. Investment would finance the
placing of ballast, replacing of ties, and upgrading of some of the remaining
40-lb track to 60-lb track on the main lines. Three replacement locomotives
and 150 (20 m ton) cane hauling cars would also be financed under the project
to provide adequate rolling stock. To ensure that these railway cars as well
as the existing fleet are well maintained, the project would finance an
initial supply of spare parts and a fully-equipped car workshop which would
serve the eastern mills. Telecommunícations equipment would be required to
increase efficiency and safety of rail traffic. Furthermore, as most of the
existing cane hauling trucks are obsolescent and, therefore, expensive to
maintain, the project would finance 20 (25 m ton) truck-tractors and 40
semi-trailers of 25-m-ton capacity. To maintain roads used by CEA equipment,
the project would also finance five bulldozers, which would replace worn-out
stock (Annex 9, Table 2).
Agriculture
3.08      Irrigation and drainage studies would be carried out on Barahona
estate to prepare for rehabilitating its irrigation and drainage systems and
to determine the appropriate level of ínvestment to retard or to stop
completely the salinization of the cane fields. These studies would also
include a pilot internal drainage scheme on a 100-ha farm (Annex 3). Because
of the apparent excess of cane, two programs would be introduced to reduce
the amount of land used for cane production which must be achieved while



- 15 -
ensuring cane supply to the sugar factories and allowing for a reserve against
increases in volume demanded, such a.s unexpected drops in sucrose content.
The overall effort would provide: (a) the necessary basic information (aerial
photography, soil and land studies, cadastral study); (b) the measures required
to increa.se productivity per unit area (research, extension, input supply);
(c) a schedule for progressively red.ucing the cane area as target increases in
productivity are achieved; and (d) establishment of a permanent geographic
information system to assist CEA in evaluating and improving management of the
resource base. Under one program, cutgrowers whose farms were located a long
distance from the mill or whose fiel.ds had poor access or who followed poor
field pra.ctices would be dropped by the estate as suppliers. Under the other
program on the estate lands, the prcject component would help formulate and
implement a long-term scheme of phasing out cane land with unsuitable charac-
teristics for cane production and/or uneconomic hauling distances. At the
same time, this program would increase land productivity on the remaining
lands over a period of time to compernsate for production losses arising from
the elimi.nation of cane from certain areas (Annex 4). A pilot research
program for mechanization of land preparation and harvesting would be under-
taken at Boca Chica estate (Annex 5). Finally, efforts would be made to
grade carie during the 1980/81 grinding season according to its sucrose content
and make payments, on that basis, to outgrowers for the cane supplied by them,
in a pilot program at Monte Llano, EL small estate in the north (Annex 6). If
the resu].ts of the pilot program are positive, all CEA sugar factories would
phase in a system to purchase cane from outgrowers based on sucrose content.
Organization and Management
3.09      Management consultants would be hired to assist CEA in improving its
overall organization and management, dealing principally with (a) establish-
ment of an efficient information system through the gradual introduction of
EDP facilities for record-keeping and control and planning of the main
administrative operations (general accountíng, inventory administration,
capital budgeting, operational budgeting, payrolls, lending to outgrowers,
and the like) and for planning of agricultural and manufacturing production
and transportation scheduling; and (b) definition of suitaLble personnel
policies with emphasis on quality of staff, career development, salary
incentives and training and improvement of the organization of CEA head-
quarters and estates.  Detailed terns of reference for management consulting
firms are under discussion with CEA and are to be approvecd by the Bank
(Annex 7).
3.10      Consultants would be hired to undertake the fol].owing tasks in
transportation: (a) supervision of rail rehabilitation; (b) maintenance of
cane hau:ling rail cars and locomotives; and (c) organization of rail traffic
at the estate level (Annex 8). Consultants would also be hired to carry
out prog:rams to: (a) reduce the amount of marginal lands used for cane
production and increase yields on c'e better lands; (b) supervise the
mechanization program at Boca Chica; and (c) undertake the irrigation and
drainage studies at Barahona estate.



- 16 -
C. Implementation Schedule
3.11      The project would be implemented over a five-year period (Annex 9,
Charts 2, 3 and 4). The sugar factory equipment would be procured during the
first year of the project and would be installed and commissioned, in general,
by the end of the second year. Track rehabilitation would begin at the end
of the first year of the project and continue until the end of the fifth year.
Construction would be carried out during the non-grinding season for the
second year, but, thereafter, with the experience gained, work would be done
throughout the year. The three locomotives and new and rehabilitated cane
cars would be operating during the second year. Management and organization
studies would be undertaken during the second and third years and the EDP
facilities would be ready for operation in the third year. The Barahona
irrigation and drainage studies and pilot research program would begin in the
first year and studies would be completed by the end of second year, while
pilot research would continue through the fifth year. The agricultural
programs would be initiated the first year. Mechanization pilot research on
Boca Chica estate and the cane area reduction program would continue over
the entire five-year period of project implementation. The pilot program to
determine the sucrose content of outgrowers' cane at the Monte Llano factory
would be undertaken the first year and completed during the second year.



- IL7 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.12      Total project cost is estimnated at US$69.2 million, of which about
US$47.0 million, or about 68%, represents foreign exchange cost. Total
project cost is detailed below:
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Foreign Exchange  Total  Exchange
---- (US$ Million) -------        (%) -
Sugar Factories
Equipment                           4.72          18.76        23.48      80
Civil Works                        0.29            0.12         0.41      29
Engineering Services               0.04            0.79         0.83      95
Sub-total:                      5.05          19.67        24.72       80
Transporta.tion
Equipment and Materials            3.90            9.85        13.75       72
Civil Works                        3.09            0.03         3.12        1
Technical Assistance               0.10            0.39         0.49      80
Sub-total:                      7.09          10.27        17.36       59
Agriculture
Barahona Irrigation and
Drainage Studies                 1.30            1.42        2.72       52
Cane Area Reduction Program         1.10           1.23         2.33       53
Mechanization Pilot Research        0.15           1.00         1.15       87
Cane Sucrose Content Pilot
Research                         0.03           0.02         0.05       40
Sub-total:                      2.58           3.67         6.25       59
Management and Organization
Management Assistance               0.35           0.50         0.85       59
EDP Hardware Leasing                  -            1.50         1.50      100
EDP System Engineering             0.10            0.20         0.30      67
Sub-total:                      0.45           2.20         2.65       83
Total Base Cost:               15.17          35.81        50.98       70
Contingencies
Physical                            1.52           3.58         5.10       70
Price                              5.54            7.60        13.14      58
Sub-total:                      7.06          11.18        18.24       61
Total Project Cost:            22.23          46.99        69.22       68



- 18 -
Baseline project cost amounts to US$51.0 million and has been estimated on
the basis of mid-1978 prices in pesos and converted into US dollars at the
official exchange rate. Physical and price contingencies total US$5.1
million and US$13.1 million, respectively. Physical contingencies on civil
works, equipment, Barahona irrigation and drainage studies and all other
project components have been estimated at 10%. Expected price contingencies
for foreign costs during the five-year implementation period from end 1979
to 1984 are calculated on the basis of projected annual inflation rates for
civil works and consultant contracts at 7%; for equipment, the rates are 6.5%
in 1979 and 6% thereafter. For local costs, the rates are 8% in 1979 and 9.5%
thereafter. The CEA does not pay taxes or duties on imported equipment.
3.13      Foreign costs of factory equipment were based on latest budgets
pertaining to international contracts as quoted from engineering consulting
firms and compared to prices from the project preparation report. Costs of
railway equipment were based on international tenders and price quotations
from established firms reviewed by Bank staff, and costs of civil works
were derived from actual wage rates paid to CEA staff and local contractors.
Costs of local material, wooden ties and ballast were derived from current
CEA costs reviewed by the Bank. Costs of international and local consultants
were based on recent contracts for irrigation studies received by INDRHI
and reviewed by the Bank staff, and these prices were supplemented by quota-
tions from international consulting firms in engineering and management.
Expatriate consultants would be retained for about 650 man-months and their
average baseline cost for all project components would be about US$8,200,
including consultant firm overhead, travel, local costs, fees and other
costs, where applicable.
E. Financing
3.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would be made to CEA, with
the Government of the Dominican Republic as guarantor, and would finance about
51% of total project costs, representing a major portion of the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project. The Bank loan would be for 17
years, including four years of grace, at 7.9% interest. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that CEA would pay to Government a guarantee fee of
2.1% per annum, which would bring the effective cost of borrowíng up to 10%
in terms of US dollars, which would ensure that CEA does not derive a competi-
tive advantage from its access to World Bank funds. Rowever, due to the cash
flow difficulties expected by CEA during the initial years of the project,
payment of the guarantee fee would be deferred and capitalized during the
grace period of the Bank loan and the fee would be paid coincidentally with
the first installment of the repayment of principal (para 6.06). The proposed
on-lending rate appears appropriate as: (a) the annual inflation rate (CPI)
over the 1976-78 period has averaged about 7.7% and the prospective domestic
inflation is estimated to be about 9.5% per annum; and (b) the current lending
rate of the BA ranges between 9 and 12% per annum and the commercial banks and
development finance corporations provide term lending to agro-industrial
enterpríses at 9% in pesos through a Development Fund (FIDE) located in the
Central Bank. CEA would assume the foreign exchange risk in US dollars and



- 19 -
Government would assume the risk oi an appreciation of ncn-dollar currencies
against the dollar.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would nake an equity capital investment in CEA for US$15 million; these funds
would be made available at CEA's request, but 80% of such funds would be
contributed to CEA not later than three years atter the date of the Loan
Agreemerit. Furthermore, CEA would also secure a loan equivalent to US$90
million to assist in financing: (a) part of the project, in an amount equiva-
lent to not less than US$20 million; and (b) current operations and, in
addition, expenditures for some urgent capital improvements other than the
project in the remaining amount on terms and conditions set forth in a private
bank loan agreement to be entered into between CEA and commercial banks as a
conditicn of loan effectiveness (para 6.08). The Caise Nationale de Credit
Agricole, Paris, and Libra Bank Ltd., London, would lead a group of commercial
banks irn making the US$90 million loan to CEA, which, in the judgment of CEA,
is on terms more favorable than it could have obtained without the association
of the Bank. The loan would be for 10 years, including four years of grace;
the interest rate would be tied to the six months London Interbank Offered
Rate (LIBOR) being 1-1/8% above it for the first three years, 1-1/4% above it
for the following five years and 1-3/8% above it for the final two years.
The financial plan would be as follows:
Category              CEA/Government 1/        Bank           Total
---------      (US$ Million) -------------
Sugar Factories                6.89                25.32          32.21
Transportation                23.03                 1.73          24.76
Agriculture                    3.62                 4.86           8.48
Management                     0.68                 3.09           3.77
Total                   34.22                 35.0()         69.22
Percent of Total
Project Cost:         49%                   51%          100%
1/   Includes co-fiDancing of about US$20 million.
The Bank would provide about US$150,000 by way of retroact:ive financing to
cover initial payment to consultants for preliminary engineering and manage-
ment studies in view of the importance of initiating these efforts as early
as possible. Projected cash flow of CEA in the near future is sufficient to
repay the Bank loan and the commercial bank loan. However, short-term cash
flow deficits may occur during the initial project years and, therefore,
assurances were obtained at negotiaitions that Government would arrange
for time.Ly financing, covering annual operational costs, to be provided to
CEA in case it cannot secure the necessary funds from commercial lending
institut:ions.



- 20 -
F. Procurement
3.15      Purchases of similar equipment items for sugar factories (US$30.6
million), transportation (US$19.2 million) and agriculture (US$1.5 million),
including contingencies, would be bulked into single contracts whenever
feasible. For contracts above US$50,000, procurement of factory, transport
and agricultural equipment and works to be financed by the Bank would be by
international competitive bidding, following the Bank guidelines. Other
equipment purchases of relatively minor items would be in accordance with
sound business practices and only after quotations were received from at
least three suppliers, provided that such contracts would not exceed, in the
aggregate, the equivalent of US$500,000. Civil works for sugar factoríes
(US$0.6 million) and rail track rehabilitation (US$4.9 million) would be
procured through force account by the project mills, with assistance of sub-
contractors. The heaviest track works would be carried out largely during the
non-grinding season (June-November). Draft tender documents for all contracts
to be financed by the Bank expected to cost in excess of US$300,000 would be
submitted to the Bank for comment before bid invitation. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from CEA that the above procedures would be followed.
3.16      Consulting services (US$10.3 million), including expatriate and
local experts, would be selected in accordance with procedures and retained on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank (paras 4.02 and
4.03). During negotiations CEA was advised that it should send the qualifica-
tions of preselected consulting firms or the short list of firms and the
proposed draft contracts for services costing over US$100,000 to the Bank for
approval prior to making any commitment. It is expected that international
consultants would be hired for: (a) engineering work in the sugar factornes;
(b) technical assistance for railways; (c) management of the Barahona irriga-
tion and drainage studies; and (d) management of part of the cane area reduction
program. An international consulting firm, most likely in association with
a local firm, would undertake the design and implementation of the EDP and
management assistance component. Computer leasing (US$2.1 million) would be
procured on the local market after at least two quotations were obtained.
G. Disbursement
3.17      Funds from the loan account would be dísbursed over a period of
five years as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expendítures for purcha:ses of factory equipment,
including installation and engineering (US$22.72 million);
(b) 13% of foreígn expenditures for transportation equipment,
materials, and technical assistance (US$1.68 million);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services and
related goods for agriculture studies on Barahona
irrigation and drainage and agricultural research on
reduction of cane areas, mechanization of harvesting and
cane suerose content (US$4.38 millaon); and



- 21 -
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for management and organizational
assistance, including leasing of EDP hardware facilities,
(US$2.72 million).
A sum of US$3.50 million would remain unallocated.  All disbursements would
be fully documented.
3.18      Estimated loan disbursements are as follows, assuming Board
presentation in August 1979 and loan effectiveness in October 1979:
Estimated Sch,edule of Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year and                Disbursement in US$ Million
Semester Ending       During Semester    Cumulative at End of Semester
December 1979                    0.20                     0.20
Juane 1980                       2.53                     2.73
December 1980                    8.20                    10.93
June 1981                        8.84                    19.77
December 1981                    7.80                    27.57
June 1982                        4.85                    32.42
December 1982                    0.78                    33.20
June 1983                        0.64                    33.84
December 1983                    0.68                    34.52
June 1984                        0.35                    34.87
December 1984                    0.13                    35.00
Any undisbursed funds at the conclusion of the project would be applied to
acquisition of similar goods needed for further improvements in project
estates after demonstration of the technical and economic justification of
such improvements by CEA and their approval by the Bank.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01      The project would be impleamented by CEA, based on its considerable
past experience in procurement, installation and commissioning of factory and
transportation equipment and works (para 2.12). An internal committee, chaired
by the Finance and Programming Chief Officer and consisting of all senior line
staff, approves all budgetary and non-budgetary investment:s in equipment and
civil works and all consulting serv;ices. In most cases, technical studies,
equipment and works would be undertaken by local staff under the authority of
the estate administrator at the estate level. Local staff would be assisted
by the technical staff at headquarters in the areas of factories, agriculture,
transportation and civil works and would be further assisted directly by



- 22 -
consultants. Responsibility for coordinating all the activities among the
local estate staffs, the technical departments at headquarters and consultants
for the efficient execution of project components would be vested in the
Project and Special Studies Department of the Finance and Programming Manage-
ment Office. The principal duties of the Chief of the Project Department would
be to:
(a) carry out day-to-day activities related to project implementation;
(b) approve expenditures for equipment, installations, and civil
works;
(c) prepare and periodically update the overall budget for
engineering and construction expenditures in cooperation
with the technical supervisors and consultants;
(d)  prepare semi-annual progress reports;
(e)  review purchasing orders and ensure their prompt processing; and
(f) take decisions to solve problems of project implementation.
The Chief of the Project Department would receive support and derive his authority
from the Office of the Executive Director of CEA through the Chief Finance and
Programming Officer. The Chief of the Project Department has been appointed,
has attended negotiations and has been approved by the Bank. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that CEA would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the qualifications and experience of the Chief of the Project
and Special Studies Department prior to any future appointment.
B. ConsultinR Services
4.02      Engineering services would be required for the project factories
with special interest in the equipment and works to be undertaken at the
Ozama sugar factory. The principal duties of the engineers would be the
preparation of specifications, tendering, evaluation of bids and the super-
vision of construction for items financed under the loan. A qualified
engineer with construction experience would be assigned to the Ozama factory
to monitor the physical aspects of the works, ascertaining that the equipment
is being properly installed and according to specific drawings, instructions
and schedule. Consultants would carefully plan for the purchase of steam
boilers for Consuelo and Quisqueya factories, ensuring that the proposed
boilers and piping would fit properly into the existing system in each
factory. In all other project factories, supervision of installation would
be undertaken by local personnel under the direction of the chief factory
engineer. Engineering consultants for the project sugar factories would be
hired in accordance with Bank guidelines and approved by the Borrower and the
Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness (para 3.16). For the railway
component, consultants would be hired for preparation of specifications,
tendering, evaluation and supervision of construction or assembly in the
areas of: (a) railway track rehabilitation; (b) purchase and maintenance of



- 23 -
rail cars; and (c) purchase and maintenance of locomotives. Appropriate
on-the-job training would be carried out and instruction manuals would be
prepared in those three fields by the consultants. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that railway cornsultants would be hired according to Bank
guidelines and approved by the Borrower and the Bank by January 31, 1980.
4.03      Expatriate and local consultants and related goods would be
required to assist CEA in carrying cut the several tasks in agriculture:
(a) the irrigation and drainage studies for Barahona estate; (b) the
cane area reduction program; (c) the mechanization pilot program on Boca
Chica estate; and (d) the pilot study for payment to outgrowers based on
sucrose content. For the irrígation and drainage studies, consultants hired
directly by CEA or subcontracted would undertake:  (a) updating of working
drawings on the irrigation and drainage canal system; (b) aerial photography;
(c) soil 5survey; and (d) the pilot research for in-field irrigation and
drainage on a 100-ha plot. For the cane area reduction program, consultants
would assist CEA personnel in carrying out: (a) aerial photography; (b) a
semi-deta:íled soíl survey; (c) a cadastral survey; (d) a transport study; and
(e) a land suitability survey.  Base,d on this information, CEA would design a
cane area reduction program over a four-year period for the project estates
and outgrowers' farms in coordination with efforts to improve cane productivity
through more effective cane research and extension.  Reduction of cane land
would occur on the estates as well as on outgrowers' farms. To ensure the
active rol.e required from the existing experimental station in achieving the
desired increase in farm productivity, assurances were obta,ined during negotia-
tions that CEA would reorganize by January 31, 1981 the Duquesa experimental
station tc enable it to adequately apply its present budget to achieve the
purposes of the productivity increase and rational land use. The consultants'
studies, referred to above, would provide the technical basis for assisting
outgrowers to diversify out of cane production. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Secretariat of Agriculture would provide technical
assistance to outgrowers diversifying their crops.  While most of the out-
growers to be terminated as cane suppliers have only recently entered cane
production (1974/75), they would, most likely, return to their former cropping
patterns, which, to a great extent, included pasture and fe,ed grains. As the
world price for beef has recently increased, it would tend to provide farmers
returning to cattle raísing with a remunerative investment. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that land retired from commercial cane production
on project estates would be transferred to IAD or an appropriate institution
for preparation and settlement of landless farm workers through the agrarian
reform program, except when those lands are used by CEA for cane experimental
activities and research or by Government for high priority projects such as
the manufacturing of gasohol. Finally, local consultant services would be
needed to assist CEA in designing and monitoring the Boca Chica mechanization
pilot program and the pilot study for payment to outgrowers based on sucrose
content. GEA was informed at negotialtions that consultants and related goods
would be procured in accordance with Elank guidelines and w'th the approval of
the Bank for the above agricultural activities. Assurances were also obtained
during negotiations that the pilot study for payments to outgrowers based on
sucrose content would begin with the 1980/81 grinding season and, after
submission of a report to the Bank no later than October 31, 1981, CEA would
review the program with the Bank and would implement the program, if found
appropriate, on other CEA estates.



- 24 -
4.04      For the management and organizational component of the project,
draft terms of reference have been prepared by the Bank for consideration
by CEA. Several management studies have been carried out in the past by
international firms--ITALCONSULT (1966), Parsons (1968), Bookers (1975)--at
the request of CEA and, therefore, the current effort would be to build on
those previous studies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
CEA would employ consultants, not only to assist its managers to undertake
studies to improve its management, but also to help in the implementation of
the findings of the studies, and hire system analysts to design and imple-
ment a system of EDP. Annex 9, Table 3 shows the estimated man-months
required and the baseline costs of consultants to be hired under the project.
C. Training
4.05      A qualified, experienced training officer would be appointed and
assigned to the Personnel Department of CEA. In collaboration with the
management consultants, the various departments at CEA headquarters and at
the mills, he would draw up and help implement a program aimed at satisfying
CEA staff needs. A survey would be carried out by the training officer
to see how programs being offered by technical schools and colleges and
universities fit CEA's training requirements. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that CEA would prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later
than December 31, 1980, a report describing a training program for selected
members of its staff in the fields of mechanical and chemical engineering,
both with emphasis on the sugar industry. Consultants financed under the
project would be hired to prepare such a report and include in it a timetable
for implementing the training program. Particular attention would be paid to
training provided in tractor operation, tractor and equipment maintenance, and
use of different implements; timing and methods of application of fertilizer,
pesticides and herbicides; cane harvesting and repairing tractors and equip-
ment; welding; fitting; laboratory analysis; pan boiling; boiler operations;
electrical operations; and others.
D. Monitoring and Reporting
4.06      The chief of the Project Department would be responsible for supervis-
ing the monitoring of all project components and would receive data on key
indicators in order to have early warning of any problems that could interfere
with implementation.  In the sugar factory component, monitoring of engineering,
bidding and equipment delivery and installation would be carried out under
the direction of the local chief engineer; for the transportation component,
monitoring would be done by the transport department chief of CEA, with
the assistance of consultants and local estate staff. A local resident
irrigation and drainage engineer, working alongside the consultants, would
monitor the progress of the drainage and irrigation studies at Barahona
estate, while pilot mechanization research at Boca Chica estate would be
closely monitored by assigned local staff working under the direction of the
CEA agricultural department chief. The program for the reduction of cane area



- 25 -
and the pilot program for grading canec according to its sucrose content would
be monitored directly by the agricultural department chief, assisted by local
estate staff and consultants. The manLagement and organizational component
would be monitored directly by the chlef of the Project Department, with the
cooperation of the Financial, Administrative and Personnel chiefs as well as
assistance from the technical department chiefs. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that: (a) semi-annual progress reports, based on the monitor-
ing information and covering progress on equipment procurement and installa-
tion and on civil works construction as well as project expenditures, would be
sent to the Bank; and (b) a draft completion report would be prepared by CEA
and submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.07      Each of the six CEA estates financed under the project would keep
accounts, including separate project accounts which would readily provide data
on all project expendítures, geared toward producing cost conitrol and manage-
ment information relating to all questions affecting project implementation.
CEA as a whole would be required to produce a consolidated project account.
During negotiations, CEA was informed that it would be required to keep the
above accounts in accordance with generally accepted accountiLng principles
and that such accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and in accordance with generally accepted audíting standards.
Audit reports, in addition to the required financial statements, would at
least include: (a) an analysis of rec,eivables as to age and opportunity
cost to CEA; (b) a summary of property, plant and equipment accounts, showing
changes during the year; (c) details as to the methods of rates of deprecia-
tion, depletion and amortization; (d) a statement of sources and application
of funds; and (e) material changes in reserves and provisions. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that CEA would send audit reports to the
Bank within six months of the close of CEA's fiscal year. Non-audited
accounts and reports would be made available for Bank inspection during
supervision or whenever required.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING
A. Production
5.01      The table below shows that the project would improve production and
productivity performance in the sugar estates of Ozama, Rio Haina, Boca Chica,
Consuelo, Quisqueya and Barahona with a measurable impact as follows:  (a)
sugar production would increase by 74,000 m ton, or by about 12% at full
project development, compared to the without-project situation; (b) net grinding
rates would increase by 4,025 m ton of cane per day, or by about 16%; (c) time
efficiencies of the sugar factories would increase to about 92%, or by 7.4%;
and (d) overall factory yields, i.e., p,ercentage extraction of sugar from
cane, would increase from 11.54% to 11.77%, representing a gain of 2%. Overall



- 26 -
cane processing capacity for the six project sugar estates would increase by
about 765,000 m ton per 190-day grinding period, which would yield an increase
of about 90,000 m ton of sugar, bringing the total capacity of CEA sugar estates
to about 930,000 m ton of sugar. At full project development, 1985/86, CEA
would be able to fulfill its export market share, about 715,000 m ton, as well
as its domestic market share, about 180,000 m ton (para 5.02). Furthermore,
there would be a high utilization of production capacity in the sugar indus-
try of the country as a whole given the forecasted export and domestic market
demand for sugar. No direct investment would be made under the project in
cane production due to the existing excess of cane and the need to plan for
better land use of cane areas and to reduce costs in cane production (para
3.08). Nevertheless, cane yields are expected to increase as a result of the
proposed program to increase productivity but would be compensated by corres-
ponding reductions in cane area, resulting in sustained levels of cane volume.
Pests and diseases do not pose seríous problems to maintaíning a sufficient
supply of cane for project projections. Rainfall is sufficient for growing
cane on the project estates and is further complemented by soils which hold
moisture well.



- 27 -
Future Production Situation at Project Estates:
Without Project and With Project
at Full Development (Sixth Year)
Cane         Sugar         Net Grinding  Time              Overall
Ground       Produced      Ratesl!        Efficiencies.!  Factory YieldsiI
1,000 m ton  1,000 m tora   m ton  day    _    _    _       _    _
Ozama
Without Project      576            66        2,743            86.9              11.56
With Project         932           112        4,726            94.4              11.94
Rio Haina
Without Project   2,024            236        9,650            80.6              11.67
With Project       2,130           254       10,799            90.2              11.93
Boca Chica
Without Project      632            73        3,007            90.3              11.60
With Project         665            78        3,369            93.8              11.79
Consuelo
Without Project      785            96        3,740            89.5              12.20
With Project         820          102         4,155            94.5              12.52
Quisqueya
Without Project      440            46        2,093            84.1              10.57
With Project         435           45         2,209            89.0              10.57
Barahona
Without Project      8494/          93        4,245            90.7              11.05
With Project         849            93        4,245            90.7              11.05
Total:  Without:    5,306           610        25,478            85.6              11.54
Wíth        5,831           684        29,503            91.9              11.77
Percentage Increase
with Project Compared
to without Project:      9.9         12.1          15.8           7.4               2.0
1/  Net grinding rate is calculated as the rated grindíng rate times overall time
efficiencies of factory.
2/  Percentage of time in which factory is in operation during the grinding season.
3/  Percentage extraction of sugar from cene at factory.
4/  After the sixth year of project, cane production in Barahona would begin to
decline if no investment is undertaken to stop the salinization of the cane
fields.



- 28 -
B. Markets and Marketing
International Markets
5.02      The project is compatible with ISA guidelines; there will be no
increases in sugar exports due to the project. The volume of sugar exported
by the Dominican Republic in 1978 was limited to 935,000 m ton, which was the
export quota allotted to it under the terms of the 1977 ISA. In December
1978, an increase of its quota was granted for 1979 from 935,000 to 990,000 m
ton, which it is expected to fulfill. The 1978 export volume was 157. below
the level exported in 1977 and 8% below the average level exported during the
previous five years (1973-77). The quota assigned to the country by the ISA
when world sugar prices are above US$0.30/ kg in current prices is 1.1 million
m ton. As the reduced volume in 1978 was aggravated by a price decline of
about 34% from 1976, the country's earnings from sugar exports fell by about
US$57 míllion from 1977 to 1978, which accounted for more than half of the
deficit in the overall balance of payments estimated for 1978.
5.03      The Dominican Republic became a provisional member of the ISA on
February 22, 1978 when it notified the Secretary General of the United Nations
that it would apply the ISA which became effective on January 1, 1978. It has
not yet formally ratified the agreement, but this is expected in the near
future. Although the Dominican Republic remains only a provisional member of
the ISA, it still must fulfill the stocking obligation stipulated by the ISA.
Accordingly, the Dominican Republic held over 200,000 m ton, which was con-
siderably more than the minimum stipulated amount of 76,204 m ton of sugar
in storage during calendar year 1978, the first quota year of the agreement.
This stipulated amount represents 40% of the maximum stocking obligation of
190,510 m ton to be fulfilled during calendar years 1978-80. CEA itself has a
total sugar storage capacity of about 445,000 m ton, of which 220,000 m ton is
designed for bulk handling.
5.04      The United States is the principal customer for Dominican sugar,
taking between 70% and 80% of total exports. Venezuela has become the second
largest buyer in recent years, having purchased 108,000 m ton of sugar valued
at US$24 million in 1978. Other customers are Morocco, France and the United
Kingdom, and, in April 1978, the Soviet Union purchased about 45,000 m ton.
5.05      CEA and the Vicini group have traditionally sold sugar on a public
tender basis to local sugar brokers usually representing international bro-
kerage firms. La Romana has an integrated marketing arrangement selling to
refiners in the United States. CEA is currently studying alternative market-
ing strategies to improve the timing and amount of its sugar sales. Future
markets are not expected to change drastically, but the country will continue
to try to ensure further sales through bilateral agreements such as the
current one with Venezuela. These two countries have signed a new agreement
according to which the Dominican Republic would supply about 209,000 m ton in
1979 at a reported price of US$0.24/kg (CIF). This is the third consecutive
year in which both governments have signed an agreement on sugar. In addition,
CEA and the two private firms export molasses to the United States after
providing for domestic needs in the animal feed and alcohol industries. In
1978, the industry exported about 167 million liters for about US$10 million.



- 29 -
5.06      World raw sugar prices on Eree markets declined from US$0.30/kg in
1976 to a low of US$0.18/kg in December 1978 all in constant 1978 dollars.
This decl:Lne continues to reflect the fast increase in world production and
stocks wh:Lch occurred in response to high world sugar prices in 1974 and 1975.
According to the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division, world
sugar prices are expected to increase in 1978 dollars to US$0. 21/kg in 1980,
US$0.23/kg in 1981, US$0.29/kg in 1982, US$0.34/kg in 1983, US$0.40/kg from
1984 to 1986, and then decrease to US$0.31/kg from 1987 to 1990.  Domestic
price for raw sugar has remained at US$0.13/kg (para 5.08).  Average price of
molasses exported in 1978 was US$5.93 per 100 liters.  In the domestic market,
however, :Livestock producers paid on.ly RD$ 1.56 per 100 liters of molasses
(FOB sugar mill) while industrial users paid RD$ 5.20 per 100 liters.
Domestic blarket
5.07       Consumption.  Domestic consumption in 1978 was about 177,000 m ton,
of which about 97, 000 m ton was refined sugar and the rest raw sugar. The
domestic market was supplíed as indicated in the following table by the three
major producers ín the country.
Producer        Raw Sugar        Refined Sugar         Total      % of Total
---------------- (m ton) -------
CEA             53, 360           64, 730             118,090        67
La Romana       16, 980           31, 880              48,860        27
Vicinri         10.509            __-                  10,509         6
Total:    80_849            96,610              177.459        100
Whereas 95% of the domestic supply of raw sugar is for households and other
dlrect consumption, about 32% of refined sugar supply is for industrial
use, main].y for sweets and soft drinks. A recent study by CEA forecasts an
increase i.n sugar consumption about 5% 1/ per annum over a 10-year period;
between 19170 and 1978, it grew at 5.5% per annum.  The study foresees a
radical change in the consumption pattern, with raw sugar demand decreasing
about 2% per year and refined sugar clemand increasing about 6% per year to
reach a 70% market share, mainly because of industrial use. Domestic molasses
consumption has been increasing rapiclly during the last few years as li restock
producers and industry demand increased. In 1978, molasses consumption was
about 130 million liters, a 12% increase over the previous year.
1/   Survey on demand and supply potential in the Dominican Republic, CEA,
August 1977.



- 30 -
5.08      Pricing of Sugar.  INESPRE is in charge of sugar distribution for
domestic consumption. Once payment is made to the sugar company by INESPRE,
the sugar is transferred to regional warehouses where it is, in turn, sold to
wholesalers according to quotas based on a country-wide study of demand. In
1974, when sugar prices were exceptionally high, Government passed Law No. 80
which permittSd the assessment of an indirect tax on sales of sugar to the
domestic market. The actual prices paid to CEA and the private sector producers
are determined by a decree issued by INAZUCAR and INESPRE. Prices in 1978 for
the domestic market were fixed as follows:
Brown Sugar    Refined Sugar
----- (RD$/kg) ----- -
Producer to Distributor (INESPRE)            0.13               0.17
Distributor to Wholesaler                    0.26               0.31
Wholesaler to Retailer                       0.27               0.32
Retailer to Consumer                         0.31               0.37
Eighty percent of the spread between INESPRE purchasing prices and sugar factory
selling prices is used to subsidize the Dominican Electric Corporation (CDE),
15% is, presumably, given back to CEA to increase the salaries of cane cutters,
and 5% is retained to finance INESPRE's operating costs. The Government has
submitted legislation to the Dominican Congress which would eliminate the
subsidy. Elimination of the subsidy would be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness. The most likely course of action for this purpose would be the
derogation by Congress of Articles 2 and 3 of Law No. 80 and the appropriate
modification of Decree No. 346 of November 23, 1974 and Resolution 1/76 of
INAZUCAR and INESPRE establishing the sugar prices for the domestic market.
C. Pricing of Cane
5.09      The price of cane received by outgrowers is based on the average
weighted unit price of sugar sold on the world and domestic markets. A
proportion of selling and shipping charges as well as production and export
taxes is deducted from the weighted price. One-half of the weighted selling
price of molasses based on the yield per m ton is added to the price for out-
growers' cane to arrive at the price per m ton outgrowers receive for their
cane. Currently, cane is purchased by CEA on the basis of weight; this method
of pricing cane provides sufficient incentives for farmers to stay in cane but
not for increasing its sucrose content. The project proposes, moreover, to
initiate a pilot program to grade cane based on its sucrose content (para 4.03).
5.10      Cane prices to outgrowers in the sugar industry need to be reviewed
periodically to maintain them at adequate levels to provide incentives to the
cane growers and sugar factories. While the free market mechanism is the
basic determinant of cane prices, other factors such as interest rate charged



- 31 -
to outgrowers for inputs and transportation allowances for cane delivered to
the factory allow the sugar companies considerable margin to provide additional
incentives to outgrowers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Govern-
ment would review every two years, not later than October 31, 1981, outgrower
and consumer prices. This review would cover, among other issues to be
defined at the time of the review, the following: (a) whether outgrowers
would supply enough cane to ensure adequate capacity utilization; (b) whether
the sugar factories would earn reasonable profits after taxes, assuming
efficient operation; (c) whether the margins allowed to wholesalers and
retailers would be adequate for them to earn reasonable profits, assuming
efficient operation; and (d) whether the basic export tonnages allocated to
the Dominican Republic and the growing domestic demand for sugar are fulfilled.
The tentative results of this review would be made known to the Bank, which
would have a reasonable opportunity to discuss them with Government.
VI. CEA FINANCIAL BACKGROUND AND PROJECTIONS
6.01      CEA's financial accounts for recent years and projections are
presented in Annex 9, Table 4, pages 1 to 3. A major feature of CEA's finan-
cial record is the substantial contribution made by it from year to year to
Government in the form of export taxes and subsidies to CDE (para 5.08).
Thus, in 1976, when the CEA revenues reached a record level, thanks to attrac-
tive international prices for sugar, the export tax absorbed as much as US$42
million and the subsidy to CDE accounted for a reduction oE US$13 million in
CEA receipts from domestic sales. Again, in 1977, the tax amounted to US$27
million and the subsidy to US$13 million, leaving CEA with a net loss of
US$26 million, after taxes. CEA's position was difficult Ln 1978 because of
the steep decline in international sugar prices and a slowdown in operations
resulting from various political factors but the resulting loss was again
aggravated by the incidence of the tax, the subsidy and otlner similar burdens
unrelated to CEA's operational expenses, and reached a level of US$23 million,
after taxes. The private sector sugar companies also absorbed these taxes and
subsidy but, presumably, were in a stronger financial position than CEA due to
the latter's higher unit cost of production, including a high level of its
administrative and general costs which represented between 18% to 26% of its
production costs between 1976 and 1978. Furthermore, high costs of production
of CEA operations have been a result, in part, of the lack of an adequate
program of capital replacement and maintenance over the years as Government
has drawn off CEA profits and transferred them to finance public expenditures
and public investment projects. Such direct or indirect financial transfers
prevented CEA, over the years, from financing, from its own earnings, essential
capital investment which was badly needed to maintain and replace obsolete
manufacturing and railroad equipment, and the failure to undertake such
investment, in turn, has gradually jeopardized CEA's produ,ction performance
and potential.
6.02      Among the other factors accounting for CEA's difficult financial
position is the fact that CEA has been charging interest at only 8% per annum
on its loans to outgrowers, as against the current commercial rate of 12%.



- 32 -
It is estimated that, even if allowance is made for interest due to outgrowers
on account of CEA's delayed payments to them, CEA would have still earned
net additional revenue of US$2.2 million in the last three years if a rate of
12% had been charged instead of 8%. Further, CEA's financial condition was
also affected by accumulated arrears of loans due from outgrowers, which
amounted to about US$7 million at the end of 1978.  Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that CEA would undertake a study to determine whether the
current interest rate charged to outgrowers results in losses to CEA and, on
the basis of such study, take appropriate action by September 30, 1980, after
providing the Bank an opportunity to comment on the study.  The study would
take into account (a) CEA's gains resulting from delayed payments to out-
growers and (b) the price of cane paid by CEA to outgrowers. If the study
should indicate losses, CEA would undertake measures to diminish such losses
by (a) raising the interest rate on the loans to outgrowers; (b) collecting
repayments on earlier dates than at present; or (c) implementing other appro-
priate action deemed necessary to avoid losses. In addition to this study
and the actions resulting from it, Government would review on a regular basis
with the Bank outgrower and consumer prices (para 5.10). Assurances were
also obtained at negotiations that CEA would prepare a detailed recovery plan
for loans in arrears, furnish it to the Bank by December 31, 1979 and take all
administrative and legal action necessary to recover by January 31, 1982 all
loans delinquent to outgrowers outstanding at the time of signing of the Loan
Agreement, and write off thereafter all irrecoverable long-term loans.
6.03      The negative impact of reduced revenue, unfavorable fiscal policy
towards CEA, its high administrative outlays and the above-mentioned financial
problems is indicated by a current ratio which declined from 1.29 in 1977
to 1.11 in 1978. 1/ Furthermore, CEA has undergone some depletion of fixed
assets caused by a lack of investment in manufacturing and cane-hauling
equipment and this has led, in turn, to a reduction in CEA's productive
capacity. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CEA would
annually prepare plans for the following three fiscal years, which would
be furnished to the Bank for comment, for: (a) the maintenance of the
facilities, equipment and property of CEA and its cost; (b) the capital
expenditures to be incurred for the modernization and expansion of each of
the CEA estates and headquarters; and (c) financial statements showing the
source and application of funds, and that CEA would carry out such plans.
6.04      A package of investment, financial and organizational measures is,
therefore, proposed to improve CEA's productivity, and, hence, financial
situation. This is expected to improve CEA's cash flow position over the next
decade and to allow for a plan of gradual plant and equipment replacement in
addition to the amortization of the long-term funds borrowed under the project.
1/   The current ratio calculation considers as current assets only cash,
accounts receivable and sugar and molasses stocks but excludes other
items described as current assets in CEA's balance sheets, such as loans
to outgrowers, draft animals and material inventory as their cash con-
version period exceeds one year.



- 33 -
To assess the impact of such measures on CEA's financíal standíng, projectione
were made of the income statements, sources and application of funda, and
balance sheet for (a) each plant financed, (b) for the consolidated position
of all 9ix planta, and (c) for CEA as a whole.
6.05      These projections are based on the following assumptions:
(a) increase of the export price of sugar on the basis of the
forecasts of the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections
Division (para 5.06);
(b)  elimination of an average subsidy of about US$0.1.1 per kg
to the CDE for sugar sold on the domestic market;
(c) increase in CEA's production of sugar for the domestic market
of 5% per annum (para 7.03);
(d) a 5% per annum increase in the volume of molasses sold on the
world and domestic markets;
(e) a decrease of an equivalent of 0.8% per annum in processing and
transportation costs due to the new equipment installed in the
sugar facilities under the project;
(f) a decrease of an equivalent of 2% per annum of the operational
cost consequent to streamlining of management organization,
tighter working capital administration, and introduction of EDP
facilities for management information services;
(g) payment of a 40% corporate income tax;
(h) interest of 12% per annum on short-term borrowings;
(i) interest of 13% per annum on long-term borrowings; and
(J) imposition of the export tax. 1/
6.06      The projections assume 1979 as the base year, which is, in turn,
estimated and based on the experience of 1976 and 1977, the two years which
represent the norm in terms of sugar production. Financial results of 1978
were excluded from the calculations because, first, it was ;an atypical year
due to extremely low world sugar prices and, second, production had suffered
because of the lack of cane cutters and cart operators on the estates during
the harvesting season. In general, the projected income statements show that,
on the assumptions stated, CEA, which had suffered substantial losses in 1977
1/   A modification of export tax Law 13 was signed in August 1978.  Accord-
ing to this modification, export taxes are assessed on the sugar com-
panies when sugar exports exceed 90,000 m ton per sugar estate. Tax
incidence increases with volume and price of exported sugar.



- 34 -
and 1978, may continue to face a difficult financial position till 1982. The
projected increase in sugar prices and the impact of the technical, financial
and managerial improvements proposed under the project are expected to lead
to a distinct trend of growing profitability in the following years.
6.07      Th. ^atements on sources and application of funds show that, in
1980 and 1981, borrowings to meet working capital needs would still be one
of the major financial problems of CEA. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that CEA could incur any debt longer than one year only if
the consolidated net revenues 1/ of CEA's sugar estates were at least two
times the debt service requirements on all debt longer than a year, including
the debt to be incurred, in any succeeding fiscal year. The cash flow,
however, would improve considerably from 1982 and would allow CEA to accumulate
sufficient funds over the next decade to permit adequate expenditures for a
gradual plan of civil works and substantial plant and equipment replacement
(over and above the US$15 million per annum already included) and company
reorganization after allowing for: (a) amortization of long-term lending by
the Bank and other international sources of funds; 2/ (b) payment of the export
tax; (c) payment of a 40% corporate income tax; (d) provision of working
capital funds on a four-month basis; and (e) sufficient cash availability for
current operations. This general improvement in CEA's financial position
beginning from 1982 is also reflected in its current ratio which would reach
the level of 2.1 by 1984, as may be seen from Annex 9, Table 4, page 3.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CEA would maintain, jointly
with all its estates, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.3 to 1 until September 30, 1982 and of not less than 1.5 to 1 at
all times thereafter.
6.08      CEA's operating losses for 1979 are expected to be about $40 million.
This reflects mainly the continued low sugar prices on the world market and,
to a less extent, some increase in its operating costs. As part of a
financial recovery plan, CEA has found it necessary to obtain medium term
credit to meet its short-term requirements and some urgently needed investment
expneditures, which are required to begin the 1979/80 grinding season. CEA
has therefore contracted a $90 million cofinancing package with private
commercial banks, which includes $70 million for the above purposes (para 3.14).
1/   The term "consolidated net revenues" means the gross revenues from sales
of sugar and molasses produced by all CEA's sugar estates plus receipts
of interest and other charges on loans to outgrowers less operating and
administration expenses, taxes and interest on short-term debt, but
including provision for depreciation, interest and other charges on
long-term debt.
2/   It is proposed that as soon as a final agreement is reached on the
contract with private banks, the amortization schedule of the proposed
Bank loan would be adjusted on the US$20 million portion of the co-
financing package, so as to ensure that repayments on the external
borrowings for the project would approximate those CEA would have obtained
if the entire amount had been on Bank terms. This adjustment only
slightly affects CEA's cash flow situation and, therefore, is not reflected
in Annex 9, Table 4.



- 35 -
The co-financing package would permit CEA to restructure ¡ts debt, from
short-term to medium term, and thus improve its cash flow position,
particularly over the 1980-82 period. After 1982, CEA is expected to
return to a sound financial position, assuming the forecast increases of
world sugar prices as projected by the Bank (para 5.06) and the improved
managerial and productive efficiency expected to result from the project.
6.09      Consolidated balance sheet projections indicate CEA's increasing
reliance on internal financial resources, seen in a remarkable, although
gradual, increase of the level of earriings resulting mainly from higher sugar
prices and CEA's increased productivity. After 1982, CEA is able to generate
increasing funds to cover its working capital needs, as a consequence of the
increase ín sugar prices and of the impact of the measures taken under the
project to replace and modernize equipment and improve the financial and
organizational efficiency. In order to ensure that CEA would retain internally
generated funds 1/ for capital investment and debt servicing, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that CEA would allocate not less than 40% of its
surplus in each fiscal year to reserves. The projections of individual project
sugar estates indicate: (a) an increasing trend in capital formation (net worth)
due mainly to high retained earnings; (b) gradual decrease in long-term debts;
(c) slight decrease in material inventory due to improved inventory management;
(d) more availability of funds for the Government through increased accrued
taxes; and (e) a slight, though continuous, increase in turnover of assets.
6.10      The following table indicates the financial rates of return and
net present values discounted at an opportunity cost of capital of 11% over
11 years for CEA and for the four plants comprising the major investment in
processing and railroad equipment:
Base Case
Financial Rate       Net Present
of Return             Value
(%)            (US$ Million)
Rio Haina                     20.2                   6.6
Boca Chica                    12.1                  0.5
Consuelo                      13.2                   1.1
Ozama                         24.2                  15.6
CEA                           19.9                  18.4
1/   "Internally generated funds" means the sum of CEA's gross revenues
related to sugar and molasses sales and net non-operating income less
its operating, maintenance and administration expenses, interest and
other charges on debt longer than one year, repayment of principal,
taxes, all payments resulting from cash distribution of income and
surplus in respect of preceding years, any other cash, and any other
cash outflow other than capital expenditures.



- 36 -
6.11      A sensitivity test has been applied to the above financial analysis
based on the following assumptions (Annex 9, Table 4, pages 4 to 6):
(a) domestic sugar consumption increases at 3% per annum;
(b) export prices are US$0.21/kg in 1980, US$0.23 in 1981 and
remain at US$0.26 from 1982 (1978 constant dollars);
(c) the cost of cane production increases by an additional 0.5%
per year;
(d)  the indirect costs increase by an additional 1% per year; and
(e)  interest on short-term lending increases to 16% instead of 12%.
The results of this analysis show that, even on these assumptions, the proposed
investments show a satisfactory financial position of CEA; financíal rates
of return are as indicated below:
Financial Rate       Net Present
of Return             Value
(%)            (US$ Million)
Rio Haina                      16.7                  5.8
Boca Chica                     10.4                  0.4
Consuelo                       10.6                  1.4
Ozama                          20.2                 13.8
CEA                            16.5                 16.3
6.12      A risk analysis test performed on revenue forecasts using a normal
distribution for sugar prices, centered on the initial estimates and with a
standard deviation of a magnitude equal to 10% of the original estimates,
shows that in about 95% of all cases possible, the real revenue figures fall
within 20% of the forecast.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary direct benefits of the project would be that it would:
(a) lower unit cost of production of sugar in general for all CEA operations
from US$0.235/kg in 1978 to US$0.202/kg in 1985 and to US$0.198/kg in 1989;
(b) increase sugar production marginally by 74,000 m ton in the sixth project
year; and (c) prevent breakdowns in sugar factory and transportation equipment
due to deteriorated equipment. The CEA would be the major direct beneficiary
of the proposed investment, and outgrowers would benefit indirectly due to
CEA's more efficient operation. The project would help maintain many of the
40,000 jobs in CEA headquarters and sugar estates as well as an equal amount
of secondary employment used to supply CEA estates and personnel with goods
and services; it would also help maintain the present annual inflow of between
US$125 million and US$200 million in foreign exchange through exports.
Considering that the Government has used the sugar export earnings to finance
a variety of economic and social development projects, e.g., dams, irrigation
works, and low cost housing, these receipts are vital to the country's economic
stability and economic development.



- 37 -
7.02      Benefits which are due to t:he project but were not quantified for
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analysis are as follows:
(a)  avoidance of major equipment breakdowns in the manufacturing process
and in the transportation system due to the high level of obsolescence
of equipment and civil works and poor maintenance;
(b)  increases in yields of cane per hectare and corresponding reduction
in unit costs due to improved management and planning of cane
production;
(c)  increases in the sucrose content of cane due to improved varieties
and cultural practices; and
(d) transfer of land from CEA t:o IAD or an appropriate institution for
settlement by landless farm workers for the production of food and
industrial crops.
Economic Analysis
7.03      The incremental cost and benefit streams adjusted by the accounting
price for foreign exchange are presented in Annex 9, Table 5.  All of the pro-
ject costs have been taken into account in the economic analysis, including the
outlays for agricultural and management studies. The Net Present Value (NPV)
of the project costs and benefits discounted at 11%, the economic opportunity
cost of capital, over 11 years is est:imated at US$42.7 million in 1978 prices
(Annex 9, Chart 5). The ERR for the project is estimated at 25.1%, assuming
that:
(a)  an accounting price of foreign exchange was estimated at 25% above
the official exchange rate of RD$ 1.00 to US$1.00 to reflect the
incidence of trade duties and quantitative restrictions;
(b)  the lffe of the project ext.ends to 11 years after which a new
investment cycle would need to be undertaken to permit overall
sugar factory capacity to expand in line with domestic and
foreign demand of sugar;
(c)  at the beginning of the prciject, domestic demand and export quotas
set by ISA are fulfilled; h.owever, without the project there are
no increases in output of sugar to fulfill growing domesti.c demand
and, hence, there is need to reduce exports to satisfy domestic
demand, while with project investment, sugar estates can fulfill the
export quota while increasi.ng output to satisfy the growing domestic
demand (CEA would maintain its part, 67%, of the local market which
it shares with La Romana anid the Vicini group);
(d)  sugar prices were based on forecasts of the Bank's Commodities
and Export Projections Division;



- 38 -
(e) in the without-project situation, factory production levels were
assumed to be in line with existing cane throughput capacity,
limited by a 210-day grinding period, and it is also assumed that
high operation and maintenance cost would continue to be incurred
with some investment in replacement capital to solve production
ems caused by equipment breakdown;
(f) in the with-project situation, factory production levels are assumed
to be in line with ISA basic export tonnage and domestic market
demand and in line with improved throughput capacities of the
rehabilitated sugar factories;
(g) additional sources of savings counted as economic benefits were:
(i) payroll savings due to fewer grinding days;
(ii) savings in maintenance and operation of the transport
system; and
(iii) savings in maintenance in the factories; and
(h) the financial wage rate was used as the cost of labor as workers were
thought to contribute to marginal output in line with their wages.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.04      Based on these assumptions, a sensitivity analysis was made to
determine which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project.
In undertaking the sensitivity analysis, switching values were calculated for
the most important cost and benefit streams. The switching value of a
variable is that value at which the net present value of the project becomes
zero (or the rate of return equals the economic opportunity cost of capital).
The switching values of the relatively more important variables are presented
below:
Variable                       Switching Value
Benefits from Increased Sugar Output           -44%
Costs of Equipment and Civil Works for
Sugar Factories and Transportation           80%
Delay in all Project Benefits                  Three Years
Project Risks
7.05      The risk most likely to affect the project's economic rate of return
is the possibility of the world price of sugar being lower than that projected
by the Bank (para 5.06). Sugar stocks continue to be high in 1979 as produc-
tion is again expected to exceed consumption causing continued low sugar
prices. However, the forecasted peak for 1984-85 on the current sugar cycle
of US$0.40/kg in 1978 prices is lower than the two previous peaks in 1963-64
of US$0.461kg and in 1974-75 of US$0.77/kg. Another source of risk to the
CEA as a low-cost sugar producer could be the lack of a continuing long-term



- 39 -
capital investment program, of whic.h the proposed project ís a first-stage
operation. Unlesas CEA undertakes such an investment program, a second atage
of which would need to begin during the fifth to the tenth year after imple-
mentation of the proposed project, serious deterioration of equipment would
again become a major problem, causing high unit costs and breakdowns
of critical equipment in the transportation and factory systems. It ¡a
expected that the increasing volume of CEA's retained earnings in the future
years will enable it to undertake such a program. It 1s reasonable to assume
these limited risks in the light of the overall competitivenesa of CEA's
operations as compared to other countries exporting sugar.
Environmental Impact
7.06      The present methods of disposing of waste materials associated
with sugar production would continue to be used under the project since
there are no apparent ill effects on the environment. However, to ensure
that any increase in production as a result of the project would not change
the present situation, Bank supervision missiona would continue to check on
the matter, particularly in regard to water quality.
Employment Impact
7.07      The overall employment picture for CEA would generally be maintained
by the project. Agricultural activities would largely be absorbed by existing
staff, with marginal increments of seasonal workers to prepare land and cul-
tivate an additional 10% of cane. About a 10% increase in harvesting and cane
cart workers would be required. The rehabilitation of the railway track would
require about the present number of workers for a five-year period, after which
there would, most likely, be a shift of some workers to agricultural activities,
including cane cutting and cart work. In the sugar factories, there would
probably be a slight increase of personnel at Ozama factory to accommodate the
increased cane throughput (58%).
7.08      The overall impact of this project would be to improve skills of
personnel in all areas, involving supervisors and direct labor. A better
trained work force provided with bettter tools and equipment would be able to
work more efficiently. This would also dramatically reduce accidents and
equipment breakdowns and, thereby, prevent costly interruptions in operations.
As skills are acquired and improvedL and higher standards of operation and
maintenance are introduced, less labor would be needed to produce 1 m ton
of cane and sugar. However, labor released due to productivity changes would,
most likely, be absorbed in the effort to increase production of cane and
sugar in line with demand.
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the Government
that it would:



- 40 -
(a)  make an equity contribution of US$15 million to CEA at
the latter's request, but 80% of such funds would be
contributed not later than three years after the date of
the Loan Agreement (para 3.14);
(b)  arrange for timely financing, covering annual opera'-zonal
costs, to be provided to CEA in case it cannot secure the
necessary funds from commercial lending institutions
(para 3.14);
(c)  provide technical assistance, through its Secretariat of
Agriculture, to outgrowers who have been dropped by the
CEA estates as cane suppliers on alternative crops and
extension services for diversification out of cane pro-
duction (para 4.03);
(d)  make arrangements for the transfer of land retired from
commercial cane production to IAD or an appropriate
institution for preparation and settlement of landless
farm workers through the agrarian reform program, except
when those lands are used by CEA for cane experimental
activities and research or by Government for high priority
projects such as the manufacture of gasohol (para 4.03); and
(e)  carry out a review every two years of the prices paid to
outgrowers for cane and paid by consumers to retailers
on the sale of sugar by not later than October 31, 1981,
and furnish those reviews to the Bank and afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on them
(para 5.10).
8.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations from CEA that it would:
(a)  pay to Government a guarantee fee of 2.1% per annum which would
bring the effective cost of borrowing up to 10% in terms of
US dollars (para 3.14);
(b)  undertake the procurement procedures set forth in paragraph 3.15;
(c)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the
qualifications and experience of the Chief of the Project and
Special Studies Department prior to any future appointment
(para 4.01);
(d)  hire railway consultants for the project estates in accordance
with Bank guidelines and approved by the Borrower and the
Bank by January 31, 1980 (para 4.02);
(e)  carry out, by January 31, 1981, a reorganization of its Duquesa
experimental station to enable it to adequately apply its
present budget to achieve the purposes of the proposed
productivity increase program and rational land use purposes
(para 4.03);



- 41 -
(f) initiate the pilot researchb for payments to outgrowers
based on sucrose content du.ríng the 1980/81 grind;ng
season and, after submisslon of a report to the Bank no
later than October 31, 1981, would review the program wíth
the Bank and would implemenLt the findinga of the research,
if found appropriate, on ot.her CEA estates (para 4.03);
(g)  hire management consultanta to undertake atudies and to
implement their findings arid hire system analysts to
design and implement a syst.em of Electronic Data
Processing (para 4.04);
(h)  prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1980, a report describing a. training program for selected
members of CEA staff in thei fields of mechanical and
chemical engineering, both with emphasis on the sugar
industry (para 4.05);
(i)  send to the Bank: (i) semi-annual progress reports covering
progress on equipment procurement and installation and
on civil works construction and project expenditures;
and (ii) a draft completion report not later than six
months after the proposed p'roject investment had been
completed (para 4.06);
(j) send audit reports to the Bank within six months of the
close of CEA's fiscal year (para 4.07);
(k) undertake a study to determLine whether the current interest
rate charged to outgrowers results in losses to CEA and, on
the basis of the study, take appropriate action by September 30,
1980, after providing the Bank an opportunity to comment on the
study (para 6.02);
(1)  prepare a detailed recovery plan for loans in arrears, furnish it
to the Bank by December 31, 1979 and take all administrative and
legal action necessary to recover loans delinquent by more than
one year to outgrowers, outstanding at the time of signing of the
Loan Agreement, by January 31, 1982, and write off thereafter all
irrecoverable long-term loans (para 6.02);
(m) prepare annually and carry out plans for three fiscal years,
which would be furnished to the Bank for comment, for: (a) the
maintenance of the facilities, equipment and property of CEA
and its cost; (b) the capital expenditures to be incurred for
the modernization and expansion of each of the CEA estates
and headquarters; and (c) f:inancial statements showing the
source and application of funds (para 6.03);
(n) not incur any debt longer than one year unless the consolidated
net revenues of CEA's sugar estates would be at least two times
the debt service requirements on all debts longer than a year,
including the debt to be incurred, in any succeeding fiscal
year (para 6.07);



- 42 -
(o) maintain, jointly with all its estates, a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3 to 1 until
September 30, 1982, and of not less than 1.5 to 1 at all times
thereafter (para 6.07); and
(p)  aLiocate to reserves not less than 40% of its surplus
in each fiscal year (para 6.09).
8.03      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) securing by CEA of a loan equivalent to US$90 million to
assist in financing: (i) part of the project, in an amount
equivalent to not less than US$20 million, and (ii) current
operations and capital expenditures other than the project
(para 3.14);
(b) the hiring of engineering consultants for the project sugar
factories in accordance with Bank guidelines and their approval
by the Borrower and the Bank (para 4.02); and
(c) elimination of the subsidy derived from sugar sales on the
domestic market to the Dominican Electric Corporation (para 5.08).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan to CEA of US$35 million for 17 years with four years
of grace. The loan would be guaranteed by the Government of the Dominican
Republic.
August 27, 1979



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sugar Factories Detailed Equipment Description and Costs
1.   TURBO-GENERATORS
(a)  Boca Chica:  2 units, 20,000 kw, P.F. 0.80, 4,160 volts, 60
cycles, with controls. Turbines to be at
least four-stage, to have Woodward gover-
nors, of appropriate type. Steam con-
ditions to be determined with CEA personnel.
(b)  Ozama:        2 units, 1,500 kw.  Same characteristics as above.
2.   MILL DRIVE TRAINS
(a) Boca Chica: 6 Turbines, 750 hp, three-stage, Woodward governors,
steam characteristics to be determined with
CEA personnel.
High speed reducers, present units can probably be
used, 600 hp with S.F. 2.083. Consult Manu-
facturer.
Low speed reducers. 700 hp, S.F. 1.15 minimum.
reduction to allow maximum output speed no
more than 6.25 RPM when turbine is at rated
speed.
(b)  Rio Haina:   3 turbines, 2,000 hp, two-stage, Woodward governors.
Steam characteristics to be determined with
CEA Ipersonnel.
Gearing is to transmit 1,000 hp to each of two mills.
Output speed to be no more than 6.25 RPM
when turbine is at rated speed.
(c)  Ozama:        The drive tra:Ln should have the same specs as Rio
Haina. (Consult CEA personnel for steam pressures
for turbines). In the event that only five mills
are purchased, the last mill may be driven by a
1,000-hp turb:Lne and appropriate combination of
gears. A conl:rol panel for the turbines must be
provided with remote speed control.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
3.   MILLING TANDEM:
Ozama:       We recommend that, prior to purchasing a new tandem,
the second-hand market be searched, at least in Puerto
Rico and Louisana, for units manufact-ed subsequent
to 1950, in good or readily repairable condition, six
mills of 78" or five or six mills of 84". If such a
unit is found, the drive trains, knives, remaceration
pumps and any auxiliaries with moving parts must be
purchased new. Shafts must be tested ultrasonically,
and replaced if necessary; shafts must be re-shelled.
If a new tandem is purchased, it should consist of
5-78" x 39" units, journals at least 18" x 24". The
bearings should be of a high-lead brass similar to
"Tiger Bronze" as manufactured by Abex. Juice pans
and gutters to be of 304 stainless steel. The cush-
cush system will be the manufacturer's standard; if
chokeless pumps are used, DSM screens will be used to
strain the mixed juice, but they will not be mounted
over the mill. The maceration juiee pumps will be of
304 SS. A recording, integrating flow meter for
imbibition water should be provided. Grooving of the
rolls, as well as maeschart grooving, will be selected
by CEA personel. All motors to be TEFC. Cane carrier
to be conventional chain and steel slat, supported under-
neath by steel rails on the zone of the knives.
Ist. Knife Set.    Pitch of blades, 2"
Speed of rotation, 600 RPM
Driver: 500-hp turbine
2nd Knife Set.    Pitch of blades, 1"
Speed of rotation, 600 RPM
Driver: 600-hp turbine
4.   INJECTION WATER PUMPS
(a) Ozama, 2 Units
(b)  Boca Chica, 2 Units.  Vertical pumps 10,000 gpm, discharge head to
be determined with CEA personnel. At Ozama,
can be standard materials. At Boca Chica,
sea water is used; consult with manufacturer
for recommended material of construction.
(both Boca Chica and Rio Haina report excellent
results with stainless steel which is normally
not used with chlorides.) Motors to be 220 hp.
5.   SHREDDER
Consuelo.              84" wide, driven by 1,200-hp turbine three-
stages, for steam 150 psi vs 15 psi.



- 5-
ANNEX 1
6.   MIXED JUICE SCALE
O)zama:       Automatic juíce scale with capacity of 300
tons per hour.
7.   LIMING TANK
Ozama:        To be designed by consulting engineers, basic
tank to be not less than 15,000 gal. Small
pre-liming tank with high agitation mlay be
used ahead of the above tank if desired.
8.   LIMED JUICE PUMPS
(a)  Ozama:        2 units, 1,250 gpm vs 175 ft. head, with TEFC motor
pump to be of 304 SS.
(b)  Boca Chica:  2 units, 850 gpm vs 200 ft. head, with TEFC motor.
Pump to be of 304 SS.
(These discharge heads shou:Ld be reviewed
with CEA personnel.)
9.   JUICE HEATERS
Ozama:        2 units, at 2,000 sq. ft. H.S. 1-1/2" tubes of 304
S.S., 16' - 20' long, juice velocity appr.
5'/sec when grinding 230 TPH at 95% dilute
juice extraction. Bodies to have expansion
joints, and to be horizontal.
10. CLARIFIERS
Ozama:        1 unit with capacity equal to that oE a 26'-444
as manufactured by Dorr-Oliver. With
liquidation pump, all motors to be TEFC.
11. VACUUM PAN + CONDENSER
Ozama:        2 units at 2,000 cu. ft., low head type, 3,650 to
3,800 sq. ft. R.S., tubes to be of steel,
3-1/2" OD x 42" long. Downtake to be 42-45%
of the diameter of the calandria.  Footing
volume to be no more than 650 cu. ft. when
measured 6" above top tube sheet. Condenser
to be MJS type.
12. A/B MOLASSES PAN FEED TANKS
Ozama:                  To be designed by consulting engineer and
constructed in place, 1,300 cu. ft.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
13. SEED RECEIVERS
Ozama:        2 units, 2,000 cu. ft. each, to be dimensioned by
consulting engineer to fit in location
intended; each to be divided into two equal
compartments. Agitation to be conventional,
1/2 to 1 MPR. TEFC Motors.
14. "A/B" CRYSTALLIZERS (PAN RECEIVERS)
Ozama:        2 units, same as item 13, above, but not divided
into compartments. TEFC Motors.
15. "C" CRYSTALLIZERS
Ozama:        3 units, 2,000 cu. ft. each, with cooling by Blanchard,
Honiron or any conventional type. Movement
to be 1-1/2 to 2 MRP. TEFC Motors.
16. BOILING HOUSE EXTENSION
Ozama:        20' x 56', with roof, staging and cladding to be
designed by consulting engineer.
17. "A/B" CENTRIFUGALS
(a)  Barahona:    6 units, 48" x 30" fully automatic with staging and
controls.
(b)  Ozama:        2 units, same as above (for both factories determine
if a mixer is required).
18. 'WC" CENTRIFUGALS
Ozama:        3 units, with staging, controls and mixer with
stevens coils, 1,000 mm x 34 , or the
size that may correspond to the manufacturer's
standard.
19. VACUUM PUMPS
Ozama:        1 unit, 6,000 cfm with its TEFC motor.
20. MOLASSES PUMPS
(a)  Ozama:        1 unit, 100 gpm vs 125 ft. head, rotary pump with
built-in relief valve on discharge, with its
TEFC motor, for "A/B" molasses.
1 unit, 80 gpm vs 200 ft. head, same as above, for
"C" molasses.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
(b)  Boca Chica:  2 units, 100 gpm vs 100 ft., same as above, for
"C" molasses.
21. CALANDRIAS
Ozama:        To increase the capacity of the No. 2 quad, new
calandrias must be designed by the consulting
engineer and put out for bids. Tubes to be of 304
S.S., 78" long x 1-1/2" OD, 16 ga.  Downtake to
be no more than 30% of the diameter of the calandria.
Height of vapor belt must be increased to at least
13' from the top tubesheet to the caitchall.
Catchall and catchall drains must be! reviewed, and
changed as necessary.
22. CLARIFIED JUICE TANK
Ozama:        Rectangular tank to be designed by consulting
engineer and constructed in place to occupy two
bays.  Pumps to be relocated immediately adjacent
to tank. Tanle to be maximum size that will fit
in 2 bays, up to 30,000 gallons.
23.  MIXED JUICE PUMPS
(a)  Ozama:        2 units, rubber-lined centrifugal pumps, 1,000 gpm
vs 60 ft. head wíth TEFC mcotor.
(b)  Boca Chica:  2 units, same as above but 750 gpm vs 60 ft.
24.  MAGMA PUMP
(a)  Ozama:         1 unit, "Rota" type, 100 gpm vs 70 ft. head, with
TEFC Motor.
(b)  Boca Chica:  1 unit, same ¿1s above but 70 gpm vs 70 ft. head.
25. TRACEC SCALE
Ozama:        1 unit, 40' p:Latform length, 50 short tons capacity,
30" track width, automatic print-out.
26.  BOILERS
(a)  Quisqueya:   1 unit, 125,000 lb steam per hour.
(b)  Consuelo:    1 unit, 125,000 lb steam per hour.
27. RAIL CAR DUMPING RAMP
(a)  Consuelo:    1 unit, to increase on-loading of rail cars from
existing system to more efficient operation.
May 5, 1979



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable for Equipment Ordering and Installation at Ozama Estate
Latest Date        Latest Date         Latest Date
Item                 Place Order         Start Constr.       Complete Constr.
Mill                 May 1, 1980          l        ±tIy      Dec. 1, 1981
Juice Scale          Jan. 31, 1980       Sep. 30, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
Juice Heaters        Jan. 31, 1980       Aug. 31, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
Clarifier            Feb. 28, 1980       Dec. 31, 1980       Mar. 31, 1980
Vac,Pans              Sep. 30, 1980      June 30, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Mol. Tanks                 --            June 30, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Seed Rcvrs.          Jan. 31, 1981       July 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
B.H. Extens.         Jun. 30, 1980       Nov. 30, 1980       Mar. 31, 1981
"C" Cryst.           Jan. 31, 1981       July 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
"A/B" Cryst.         Jan. 31, 1981       July 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
"A/B" Centr.         Nov. 30, 1979       Nov. 30, 1980       Mar. 31, 1981
"C" Centr.           Oct. 31, 1979       July 31, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
Inj. Pumps           Dec. 31, 1980       Sep. 30, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Vac. Pump            Dec. 31, 1979       Sep. 30, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
"A/B" Mol. Pump      Jan. 31, 1980       Oct. 30, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
"C" Mol. Pump        Jan. 31, 1980       Oct. 30, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
Inj. System           (Dead Season Either 1980 or 1981)   Dec. 1, 1981
Piping Alt.           (Dead Season, 1980 and 1981)           Dec. 1, 1981
Calandrias           Nov. 30, 1980       June 30, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Cl. Juice Tank             --            July 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Mud System            (Dead Season, 1980 or 1981)            Dec. 1, 1981
Turbo-Alt.           Mar.  31, 1980    Apr. 30, 1981         Dec. 1, 1981
Mixed J. Pump        Dec. 31, 1980       Oct. 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Magma Pump           Dec. 31, 1979       Oct. 31, 1980       Dec. 1, 1980
Cane Scale           Aug. 31, 1980       July 31, 1981       Dec. 1, 1981
Boilers              Jan. 31, 1980       Sep. 30, 1980       Dec. 1, 1981
Rail Car Dumping
Ramp                (Dead Season, 1980)                    Dec. 1, 1980
March 27, 1979



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detaíled Epuipment Description and Costa
(Us$ 1000)
1980                               1981                                Total
Item                             Local    Foreign    Total          Local    ForeLgn    Total           Local    Foreign    Total
Barahona
Centrifugals                                      528         15        543           92         85         177          620        100        720
Boca Chica
Turbines and gears                                284          -        284        2,552        512      3,064         2,836        512      3,348
Turbo-generators                                 638          30        668          159         89        248           797        119        916
Injection water pumps                              90         10        100            -          -           -           90         10        100
Miscellaneous equipment                            70          9         79             -          -          -           70          9         79
Civil works                                         -        _            -            -         15          15            -         15         15
SEub-total:           1,082         49      1,131        2,711         616      3,327        3,793        665      4,458
Consuelo
Shredder                                         330          20        350            -          -           -          330         20        350
Boíler                                         1,000       1,000      2,000             -          -          -        1,000      1,000      2,000
Rail Car Dumping Ramp                              65         65     _ 130                                    -           65         65        130
Eiub-total:           1,395      1,085      2,480             -          -          -        1,395      1,085      2,480
Rio Haina
Turbines and geara                                180          -        180        2,239        340      2,579         2,419        340      2,759
Civil works                                         -          -          -            -         10       _10              -         10         10
Sub-total:              180          -        180        2,239         350      2,589        2,419        350      2,769
quisqueya
Boiler                                         1,000       1,000      2,000            -          -           -        1,000      1,000      2,000
Ozama
r¡il¡ing tandem                                3,230           -      3:,230       3,070        951      4,021        6,300         951      7,251
Juice scale, etc.                                  87         30        117            -          -           -           87         30        117
Juice heaters                                      96         15        111            -          -           -           96         15        111
Clarifier                                         233         18        251             -        12          12          233         30        263
Vacuum pans                                      331           -        331            -         18          18          331         18        349
A/B mol. tank                                       -          -          -           12           6         18           12          6         18
Seed receivers                                      9          -          9          114         18         132          123         18        141
C crystallizers                                    44          -         44          547         80        627           591         80        671
A/B crystallizers                                  11          -         11          102         61         163          113         61        174
A/B centrifugals                                  189         20        209           21          10         31          210         30        240
Injection pumps                                    37          6         43            -          -           -           37          6         43
C centrifugals                                    126         15        141             -          -          -          126         15        141
Vacuum pump                                        16          4         20             -          -          -           16          4         20
A/B mol. pump                                       1          -          1             7          2          9            8          2         10
C mol. pump                                         1          -          1             7          2          9            8          2         10
Condenser water                                     -          -          -           36         44          80           36         44         80
_ Cane scale                                          -          -          -           40          22         62           40         22         62
Piping, etc.                                        -          -          -           98         32        1.30           98         32        130
Calandrias                                         10          -         10          111          19        130          121         19         140
Clarifier juice tank                                -          -          -           20          30        .50           20         30          50
Filter cake system                                  -                     -           92         49         141           92         49        141
Turbo-generators                                   56          _         56          736          73        809          792         73        865
Mixed juice pumps                                   2          -          2            25          2         27           27          2          29
Magma pump                                          1          -          1            13          2         15           14          2          16
Civil works                                        50          -         50           65         265        3.30         115        265        380
Sub-total:            4.530        108      4.638        5.116       1.698      6,814        9,646      1,806    11,452
T,otal:               8,J15      _ 2         972        10 158       2 749    12.907        _____       5 006
March 28, 1979



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REIABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers for Sugar Factories
A. Scope and Purpose
1.        The State Sugar Council (CEA) is presently involved in a rehabilita-
tion of a group of its sugar estates. These terms of reference are principally
in regard to the Ozama sugar factory where the largest amount of work will be
performed and Consuelo ad Quisqueya where steam boilers of 125,000 lb per hour
would be installed.  At the other sugar factories, some of the work described
below will be performed by CEA personnel as indicated.
2.        Part of the CEA program would be financed by the Bank.  Terms of
reference include the specifications, purchase, engineering and monitoring
of the installation of equipment financed by the project in par£icular for
Ozama, Consuelo and Quisqueya sugar factories and in general for the other
project sugar factories.
B. Preparation of Specifications, Tendering,
Evaluation and Construction
3.        The engineering consultants would carry out the following tasks:
(a) visit Ozama, Consuelo and Quisqueya sugar factories and
examine the physical plant in detail, paying special attention
to the facilities available for accomplishing the project;
(b) review the equipment and works incorporated in the project to
determine a logical timetable. This timetable should be com-
pared with the timetable previously prepared by CEA with Bank
approval. Any differences should be discussed with CEA and
a conclusion reached;
(c) within 60 days of signing your contract with CEA, complete a
rigorous material and energy balance for Ozama, and determine
whether upon completion of the project there will be capacity
for 230 TPH. If there is not enough capacity, determine
where the bottlenecks are and how they can be eliminated;
(d) prepare specifications for all equipment and structural
material to be purchased. Except for the off-the-shelf items,
these specifications should be detailed at least to the extent
of materials of construction, size of bearings and such areas
as may affect operations and/or ease of maintenance (this refers
especially to the milling tandem). The specifications must be
submitted to CEA for approval. Specifications are to be written
for all equipment to be purchased for the project, including
that for factories other than Ozama, Consuelo and Quisqueya;



- _i1 -
ANNEX 2
(e)  upon receipt of the approva] of the specifications from CEA,
prepare the necessary tenders for international competitive
bidding for all equipment to be purchased under th.e loan. The
bid lists for each item or group of items must have previous
approval of CEA. For export: credit bidding, prepa.re tender
packages for Brazil, France., Germany, Japan, UK and USA,
preparing the packages in accordance with what the respective
countries traditionally supply to the raw sugar industry. In
the event that export credil: is not used, packagesE may be
prepared for manufacturers who supply a whole linei, such as
process equipment and pumps. The bids should be due 60 days
after the mailing of the tenders;
(f)  on the bid-due date, commence the procese of bid-analysis,
taking into full account quality and design as well as price
as would have been detailed in the bidding documerLts. Also take
into account the existing equipment, such as centrifugals.
[f a bidder has taken exception to any part of the specifications,
determine whether the exception will affect the proper operation or
maintenance of the equipment; if not, the bid may be accepted;
(g)  review with CEA all bid analyses, informing them of the
areasons for your selection;
(h)  while the above process is taking place, send personnel to
Ozama, Consuelo and Quisqueya sugar factories to obtain
necessary drawings, or to measure up preparatory to making the
necessary construction drawings;
(i)  prepare all drawings for construction, submitting them to CEA
for approval before issue. Issue four copies of each approved
drawing to CEA for their files and use in the fíe:Ld; and
(j)  if requested by CEA, send an engineer for periodic inspection
of manufacture of major items of the project.
C. Staffing
4.        Personnel required for the project will be the fo.llowing:
(a)  Project Manager:  A qualified engineer, headquart,ered in
the home office, to be in overall charge of the project,
and to supervise and be responsible for all phases that
are carried out in the home office such as writing of
specifications and drafting. He will maintain contact
with the construction, at least, by receiving a copy of
all reports made by the resident engineer to CEA.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
(b) Resident Engineer: A qualified engineer with construction
experience. Duties to be as indicated in paragraph 5 below.
He must be able to speak Spanish fluently.
(c)  Draftsmen:  These are to be in number and category sufficient to
provide all the engineering drawings needed to complete the
project, aside from manufacturer's drawings provided with the
equipment.
D. Reporting
5.        A qualified and experienced resident engineer would be required at
Ozama mill, taking up residence in Santo Domingo. His primary duty will be to
monitor the physical aspects of the project, ascertaining that the equipment
and works are being installed properly and according to drawings, instructions
and schedule. Should abnormalities occur, he would immediately inform the
local manager and the chief of the Project Division. In any case, he will
fortnightly inform CEA of progress, in writing, using the forms provided for
that purpose. He will monthly, or as required, meet with the chief of the
Project Division to review the budget. Although at no time will he be autho-
rized to direct any part of the work, he will at all times render such advice
and assistance as may be required by the CEA personnel. As each item of the
project is finished and ready for testing, he will be present at the test
and will reach an agreement with the local personnel as to whether the
results of the test are acceptable or not. In the case of testing turbo-
alternators, he may request assistance from his home office to assure a safe
test, bearing in mind that he has no responsibility in the operation but is
strictly advisory. The timing of his presence on the project cannot be
exactly defined at present. It can be said, however, that the minimum will
be the last month of dead season, 1980, and during the last month of the
1980/81 crop and all of dead season, 1981.
E. Cost Estimates
6.        Costs of engineering consultants are estimated at 7.5% of total
investment for factory equipment in Ozama sugar factory. An international
firm would be hired possibly associated with a local firm. Total baseline
cost would be US$830,000 of which about US$790,000 (95%) would be foreign
exchange cost. Approximately 115 man-months would be required which would
mean an average base cost of US$7,200 per man-month including firm overhead
and other charges, wherever appropriate.
May 5, 1979



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage in Barahona Sugar Estate
A. Background
1.        The Barahona sugar mill and its associated 11,500-ha estate
is located in the southwest of the Dominican Republic near the city of
Barahona, 200 km from Santo Domingo in the provinces of Barahona, Indepen-
dencia and Baoruco. It is the largest irrigated area in the country devoted
to cane production and represents 4% of the total land under sugar. The
mill, founded in 1920, has a capacity of about 187 m ton per hour. Average
annual production of cane milled in Barahona between 1970 and 1978 was
about 825,480 m ton with a maximum of 904,680 m ton in 1974. In 1978, the
630,180 m ton milled represented 10.3% of the total CEA produiction and more
than 6% of the country's production.
2.         The sugar estate occupies a flat depression betweeni the Neiba
bay Lago Enriquillo (42 m above sea level), Sierra de Neiba cnd Sierra de
Baoruco. The floor of the valley is formed mainly by marine lacustre
deposits and young alluvial soils deposited by the Yaque del Sur river,
which provides water for the existing irrigation networks. The main body of
irrigated lands is relatively flat (1% to 4%), at elevations ranging between
20 and 1 m.
B. Existing Situation
Basic Problem
3.         It appears that at least 70% of the area is suffering from exces-
sively high water tables, with the consequent hazard of salinization.  Since
1938, a monthly water table map has beesn produced recording the water levels
in a network of perforated standpipes .nd data shows that water tables rose
steadily until the main drains were rehabilitated. However, sub-surface
drainage In the fields is not improving because irrigation waters are not
well controlled. Rehabilitation of the drainage system as well as an
improvement in the application of irrigation water could lead to a consider-
able lowering of the water table, but the entire Barahona area would have to
be studied before investments could be justified.
4.         INDRHI received a loan from the Interamerican Development Bank
(IDB) to finance the services of a specialized consulting firm to study the
irrigation zones to be served by the SILbana Yegua dam currently under
construction in order to detemine the optimum use for the water from the dam



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
as well as the best use of the Azua 1 canal, and of the Santano main canal
serving the Barahona area. However, it appears that the INDRHI study would
not include a detailed analysis3of Barahona water requirements which INDRHI
currently has set at about 10 m /sec. Water is available for the sugar
estate lands only 18 hours a day. During the remaining six hours, farmers
living inside and around the area of Barahona use the supply. Further
detailed study of water requírements on the estate coordinated with the
overall INDRHI river basin study is needed.
Irrigation System
5.        No canals in the present irrigation system are lined, except for
the "A" c nals, which carry water to the reservoir with a capacity of
600,000 m . Main canals and laterals are maintained but the tertiary
system is not kept up so that operational wastes are high. Control struc-
tures are insufficient and most of the measurement structures have been
destroyed, making it impossible to record actual flows.
Drainage System
6.        The existing drainage network includes seven independent small
drainage basins. About 85% of the waters are discharged into Enriquillo
lake, 11.5% in the Yaque del Sur river and 3.5% in the Rincon lagoon. The
main drainage network is about 311 km in length. Rehabilitation and mainten-
ance work, begun in 1975, has been completed on 290 km and the rest will be
finished by the end of 1978. However, vegetation is already growing again
in the canals worked on initially. The present state of the secondary
surface drainage works leaves much to be desired, with excessive irrigation
water often ponding for more than four days.  Some split ditches can be
found into which the quarter drains are supposed to discharge, but most are
clogged or used to convey irrigation water. Collector drains at the bottom
of the fields are blocked and utilized only when excessive ponding occurs.
Generally speaking, provision is also inadequate for the outlets to the main
drains and erosion often results. It is estimated that the total length of
secondary and tertiary drains is about 670 km.
C. Barahona Project Component
General
7.        The project component would finance a two-year study for reha-
bilitation of the irrigation and drainage systems of the Barahona estate.
The purpose of the study would be to determine (a) what actions must be
taken to ensure continued sugarcane production on the Barahona estate in
amounts sufficient to meet the installed capacity of the mill, and
(b) whether the cost of such actions can be economically justified.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
8.         The main components of the project component woulcl be:
(a)  a detailed analysis of about 11,500 ha of the Barahona sugar
atate farm, to determine thoe area required to supply the 187 m
ton/hour (installed capacity of the mill) using efficient
sugarcane production methods;
(b)  development of about 100 ha as a pilot scheme where information
could be obtained on approx:imate costs of the drai.nage system;
techniques to improve sugarcane cultivation, incltLding land
leveling and appropriate irrigation methods; and sugarcane
varieties best adapted to the soils; and
(c) training of personnel in charge of irrigation at t.he estate.
Detailed Features
9.         The rehabilitation study would be carried out by a specialized
international consulting firm which would:
(a)  assist CEA in defining the scope of work and supervising
the preparation of supporting studies;
(b)  carry out soil and water insvestigations 1/ for cane production
and define the area require¿L to supply the installed capacity
of the Barahona sugar factory;
(c)  carry out the necessary studies and investigations to deter-
mine the economic importance of private farms located in the
estate area (crop area, water use and such) and prepare a
full report which would be used as a basis for establishing
water rights, coordinating d.istribution of irrigation water
between the estate and private farms, and recommending the
participation of private farms in financing rehabilitation
of the irrigation and draina.ge networks and the cost of opera-
tion and maintenance;
(d)  prepare, after agreement with CEA and the Bank on the criteria
for final designs; (i) final designs of the irrigation and drainage
networks; (ii) specifications, bill of quantities, and cost esti-
mates for all project works; (iií) operation and maintenance manuals;
and (iv) recommendations as to minimum personnel neseded to operate
the network;
(e)  recommend proper irrigation methods; drainage pracitices; leaching,
land leveling and crop culture practices; and farming techniques
to be implemented in the estate lands;
1/   These investigations are to follow USBR procedures or any other accept-
able to the Bank.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
(f) carry out investigations and surveys to determine what is needed
to improve the road network, taking into account the areas to
remain under sugarcane; prepare a cane transportation analysis
and requirements for both trucks and trains; and produce final
designs to meet requirements. Prepare specifications, bills
of quantities, cost estimates and definition of the minimum
number of persons and equipment required for road maintenance;
(g) evaluate project benefits; select the most suitable alternative
for rehabilitation; prepare the economic justification; determine
estate financial capacity; and prepare financial and sensitivity
analyses;
(h) analyze the general organization of the Barahona estate to enable
authorities to determine the structure and functions of the unit
that would be set up to be in charge of engineering studies,
construction, supervision administration, operation and main-
tenance of drainage and irrigation systems and coordination of
the agricultural activities on the estate;
(i) prepare tender documents and plans suitable for international
competitive bidding according to international guidelines and
Dominican Republic laws and regulations; and
(j) prepare periodic progress reports and reports on specific studies,
including selection of alternatives to be submitted to CEA for
discussion with the Bank whenever appropriate and approval of CEA
and the Bank and prepare 50 copies--25 in Spanish and 25 in English--
of the final report on the rehabilitation studies.
10.       The consultant will also assist CEA in selecting about 100 ha to
be used as a pilot area and in directing and supervising the following
activities:
(a) detailed soil survey of the 100-ha area;
(b) study of general soil drainage problems;
(c) study of soil salts and their effects under various irrigation
methods and drainage requirements;
(d) formulation of recommendations for leaching, drainage, soil
amendment and the like; study of financial results; and develop-
ment of alternatives so that recommendations could be applied to
all estates;
(e) research on sugarcane varieties and preparation of recom-
mendations to improve culture techniques appropriate to the
particular soil and drainage characteristics (including land
leveling of the area);



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
(f)  training personnel in charge of water distributicin and irri-
gation in the use and control of water and in different
irrigation methods and practices for sugarcane cultivation;
and
(g)  preparation of periodic progress reports to be submitted to
CEA, including a completion report on the pilot area.
Subcontracts
11.       Under the supervísion of the consultants, CEA would subcontract
basic studies required for the rehabilitation study. These studies, to be
prepared in the six months preceding the arrival of the full team of
consultants in Barahona, would include the followíng:
(a) Updating the Irrigation and Drainage Networks. Complete terms
of reference for this work would be produced by the consultants,
but main activities would be:
(i)  preparation of maps of the project area on a scale of
1:5,000, profiles of the drains at scale 1:2,000 horizonal
and 1:200 vertical, and measurements of sections of the
canals as required by the consultants;
(íi) staking out the alignment of the irrigation and drainage
networks (down to 15-ha service block) with permanent
bench marks placed at appropriate intervals as specified
by the consultants; and
(Iíi) preparation of drawings and details as specified by the
consultants of the existing main and secondary structures
(diversion, control, measurement, bridges and culverts)
in the irrigation and drainage networks.
(b)  Controlled Aerial Photography.  This work would be done on about
15,000 ha at a scale of 1:20,000. It would be used for soil
survey, planimetric control of irrigation canals, drains, and
roads, and delineation of sLugarcane area. Terms of reference and
specifications would be provided by the consultants.
(c)  Detailed Topography.  This work would be carried out on about
100 ha for the selected pilot area at a scale of 1:2,000, with
0.20-m contours and a minimlum of 16 points of level per ha, referred
to the basic topographic network of the estate. Detailed topography
would be used by the consultants to design and plan irrigation and
drainage works, carry out land leveling and locate areas for sugar
trials in the pilot area.
(d)  Land Leveling.  This work would be done on the pilot area under
the consultants' control and terms of reference.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
(e) Soil and Land Suitability Surveys. This survey would cover
11,500 ha, followíng specífications prepared by consultants,
to provide:
(i) basic soil and land suitability information for
design of irrigation and drainage systems;
(ii) data on general suitability of soil areas for
sugarcane production to assist in deciding
possible reduction of sugarcane areas;
(iii) description of physícal and chemical characteristics
of soíls gulde design of irrigation and drainage
measures and selection of fertilization rates for
optimum productívity; and
(iv) graphic representation of results of soil survey on
1:20,000 controlled photomosaics (see (b) above).
These works would include:
(1) semi-detailed soal survey (i.e., one boring per
15 ha; four soil samples per boring; one infil-
tration test per 40 ha) over 11,400 ha of the
Barahona sugar estate (totalíng approximately
760 borings, 3,040 samples and 380 infiltration
tests);
(2) detaíled soil survey (i.e., one boring per 5 ha;
four soal samples per boring; one infiltration
test per 10 ha) over 100 ha in the pilot area
(totaling approximately 20 borings; 80 samples,
and 10 infiltration tests) and hydraulic conductivity
tests in selected sites;
(3) analysis of the approximately 2,360 samples,
determining texture, pH, electric conductivíty,
salt content, moisture retention capacity,
apparent density, nutrients (N,P,K) cation
exchange, possible toxicity, and the like.
These analyses could be conducted partly in the
new soíls laboratory at the sugar mill (for the
less complex determinatíons such as texture,
pH, and conductivíty) and partly at the soíls
laboratory at the Duquesa Experimental Station
(for the more complex physical and chemical
determinations);
(4) agronomic interpretation of the results of the above
surveys and laboratory analyses to determine a range
of suitabílíty for irrigated cane production; and



59 9
ANNEX 3
(5)  preparation of no less than two soil maps,
indicating in one the soil characteristics
pertinent to irrigation and drainage (ccnductiv-
ity, salt content, infiltration and permeability
rates and such) and, in the other, the various
areas corresponding to the different ranges of
suitability for sugarcane production.
The above specifications are presented as guidelines and for purposes of
preliminary cost estimation. Final specifications would be prepared by the
consultants in accordance with their requirements for engineering and
agronomic purposes.
D. Cost Estimates
12.       Cost estimates for the rehabilitation study, and pilot research
area, are based on an activity program, personnel requirements to accomplish
programmed activities (international consultant firm and CEA's required
counterpart personnel), equipment, and required subcontracts for basic
studies. Unit prices were calculated using updated costs for consulting
services in the Dominican Republic aIs provided by international consulting
firms and local consultants. Additional unit prices were calculated using
standard procedures, which, for each work item, required an estimate of
equipment use (depreciating and operation), labor, and contractor admini-
stration cost, and profit margins. The total cost of the study and pilot
research is estimated at US$2.7 million, of which the foreign exchange
component would be US$1.4 million, about 52%. Detailed cost estimates are
given in Annex 3, Table 1.
May 5, 1979



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
DOMlNICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage in Barahona Sugar Estate
Detailed Cost Estimates
(US$ Equivalent)
Item                                     Local           Foreign            Total
Rehabilitation St.dy
Foreign Personnel (Consultant)
Salary                                                 140,800         796,600            937,400
Cantral Office Support                                   7,970          71,690             79,660
C3nsultants Benefit                                     17,850         104,190            122,040
Instillation and Travel                                    30,000          44,200             74,200
Sub-total:                 196,620       1,016,680          1,213,300
Local Personnel (Consultant)
Silary                                                457,920                 -           157,920
C)nsultants Benefit                                     45,790                -            45,790
Sub-total:                 503,710                -           303,710
Reimaursable Expenditures                                  93,200                -            93,200
Subc ntracts
U)dating Irrigation and Drainage                      100,870                 -           L00,870
A-rial Photography                                       5,000          30,000             35,000
Sñil Survey (Semidetailed)                              81,400          16,700             98,LOO
Sub-total:                 187,270           46,700           733,970
LocaL Personnel (CEA)
S lary                                                 121.200                -           L21,200
Total Cost Rehabilitation Study:         1,102,000       1,063,380           2,165,380
Pilot iesearcrn Phase
Foreign Personnel (Consultant)
Slary                                                  39,600         234,000            273,600
C-ntral Office Support                                   2,340          21,060             23,400
C)nsultants Benefit (12%)                                5,030          30,610             35,640
Instillation and Travel                                    12.000          12,400             24.400
Sub-total:                  58,970          298,070           357,040
Equimrent                                                   2,200          45,000             47,200
Subc7ntracts
D?tailed Topography                                      3,300                -             3,300
S3il Survey (Detailed)                                   7,140           1,460              8,600
Lind Leveling                                            1,730           3,060              4,790
Iiternal Drainage                                       11 000           8,000             19,000
Sub-total:                  23,170           12,520            35,690
LocaL Personnel (CEA)
Slary                                                 117,020                -           117.020
Total Cost Pilot Research Phase:            201,360         355,590            556,950
Total Baseline Costs:                    1.303,360        1                  L 722 330
March '8, 1979



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Program for Reduction of Cane Areas in the Project Sugar Estates
A. Introduction
1.        As a result of the 1974-76 sugar boom, total cane ¿Lrea in the
Dominican Republic, including private industry and CEA estates and out-
growers, underwent a significant expansion. Although there is a lack of
reliable data on cane areas, FAO/CP 1/ estimates, in rounded numbers, that
the total area expanded from 151,000 ha in 1970 to about 250,000 ba in 1977.
This expansion included a 61% area increase in CEA estates arid outgrowers,
and an 82% area increase in the private industry. The CEA arid outgrowers
cane area reached about 212,600 ha in 1978/79 of which about 49% corresponds
to outgrowers.  Because of quota limitations by the International Sugar
Agreement ([SA) of 1977, present estimates of cane to be milled in the
1978/79 season amount to some 7,029,2510 m ton. Assuming an overall weighted
average yieLd of 46 m ton per ha for the proposed project mills, the area
required to produce this volume of canri plus a 20% reserve would be about
184,000 ha, thus leaving close to 30,0,00 ha unharvested.
2.        Expansion of the cane area has resulted not only in a large volume
of unharvested cane, but also in increases in production costas because of
caane being hauled from long, uneconomi,cal distances. Sound management
principles indicate the need to reduce these areas to conforma to mill
requirements and lower transport costs. Careful consideration should be
given to the following aspects of area reduction before action is taken in
that direction:  (a) the need to insure cane supply to the miLlls; (b)
progressively declining yields in most estates; and (c) social problems
created by reducing outgrowers' cane areas.
3.        CEA has already undertaken a program to eliminate progressively
unnecessary or unproductive cane areas.  It has taken steps to eliminate low-
yielding areas, as in Barahona sugar estate where highly saliLne fields have
been permanently removed from production, and it has established a policy to
avoid renewal of outgrowers' contracts for areas which are low-yielding or
located at urneconomical distances from the mill or the railroad transfer
points. The program, however, is severely constrained by lack of basic
information on the extent and productive capabilities of both CEA and
outgrowers' holdings.  A complete cadaster of cane areas does not exist; nor
is there complete information on the soils and the relative adequacy of
different areas for cane cultivation.
1/   FAO/CP, Dominican Republic, Sugar Industry Rehabilitation Project,
May 1978.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
4.        Since reduction of cane areas would result in additional lands
being available for other agricultural uses, the determination of the
potential uses of each land unit becomes essential to CEA's future plans as
well as to -hose of the Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA) and the
Agrarian Relurm Institute (IAD). In addition, reduction of cane areas must
be achieved while ensuring cane supply to the sugar factories and allowing
for a reserve against increases in volume demand, such as in unexpected
drops in sucrose content.
5.        To achieve this delicate balance, a program is required which
would provide the following: (a) the necesary basic information (aerial
photography, cadastral survey, land suitability survey, and transport
study); (b) the measures required to increase productivity per unit area
(research, extension, input supply); and (c) a schedule for progressively
reducing the cane area as target increases in productivity are achieved.
This program could serve as a basis for the establishment of a geographic
information system to assist CEA in evaluating production capabilities and
improving the long-term managemeat of the resource base. 1/
B. Basic Information
6.        A serious obstacle to the implementation of a program to reduce
cane areas is the lack of basic data on such important aspects as area and
location of CEA ho]dings; size and location of outgrowers' farms; qualitative
information on soil and terrain characteristics which are essential for
determining adequate agricultural and harvesting practices; productive
capabilities of different areas and their suitability to cane production and
to other crops; and economic distances from field to factory or to railroad
or truck loading stations.
Aerial Photography
7.        One basic tool used almost universally for cadastral and other
surveys is aerial photography. While aerial photographic coverage of the
Dominican Republic already exists, it is obsolete for cadastral purposes and
its scale (1:40,000) is too small for effective use in soil and land capabi-
lities surveys. To provide the physical basis for the different surveys
required, a 1:20,000 scale photography is required, preferably with ortho-
photos. Such photography is being undertaken with USAID financing,
although the product will be standard photography with normal distortion
limitations. To provide an acceptable cartographic base, however, controlled
mosaics can be prepared from the standard negatives, which will facilitate
plotting of CEA estates and outgrowers' farms. The USAID-financed project
will provide photographic coverage for the area encompassed approximately
by the 69000  and 70030' meridians longitude west agd 18 00' and 19000'
parallels latitude north, an area of about 5,000 km , at a cost of about
1/   Tillman, E., "Project for the Rational Use of the CEA Land Resource
Base," February 28, 1979.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
US$80,000. This area covers CEA holdings and outgrowers' farms in Rio
Haina, Ozamna, Boca Chica, Consuelo and Quisqueya. In additilon, arrangements
are being made between CEA and USAID for aerial photographic coverage of
Barahona sugar estate.  The availability of both standard contact prints and
controlled mosaics will facilitate photointerpretation for qualitative
subjects such as soils, land capability, and cane coverage, as well as spatial
characteristics such as property boundaries, surface area of- holdings,
and linear measurement of distances from field to factory or to railroad
sidings. Other aspects of basic studies in which aerial photography will
provide effective assistance are the following: (a) preparation of topo-
graphic maps for irrigation and drainage studies; (b) identification of
areas suitable for mechanized harvesting; and (c) identification of cultural
characteristics (roads, dams, irrigation ditches, railways and sidings,
power lines, sugar mills and other plant facilities).
Cadastral Survey
8.        Information on actual CEA land holdings is scant and disorganized.
Data in the individual estates does not always coincide with that in head-
quarters. As a result, irregularities are reported such as the existence of
outgrowers on land that actually belongs to CEA, which cannot be either
proved or disproved for lack of basic information. The situation is not any
better where the outgrowers are concerned. Both the CEA factories and the
Dominican Federation of Sugarcane Outgrowers (FEDOCA) maint;ain records of
cane delivered by each outgrower to the mill, but there is no attempt to
determine the location or total area of the individual outgrowers nor of the
portion of their holdings represented by cane or the nature or the comple-
mentary crops on their farms.
9.        Without accurate information on such matters, CEA cannot attempt
to rationalize the use of its own land by increasing productivity while at
the same time reducing area and, thereby, decreasing unit production costs.
Nor can it properly advise the outgrowers to do the same while suggesting
alternative productive uses for the land liberated by the proposed cane
reduction.
10.       A cadastral survey, which is important to the whole agricultural
sector, becomes essential to proper management of the sugar industry.
Without knowledge on the extent, terrain, and agricultural facilities in
each of the CEA estates, it is difficult to identify constraints to in-
creased productivity or to design effective production plans which take into
consideration the areas more suitable for production and yet within economic
distance from the factories or from its main transport network. Decisions
as important as the opening of a new road, the extension of an existing
railway or the elimination of a given area from the production scheme can
all be facilitated by a complete cadaster of all CEA land holdings. As a
result of a productivity increase and an area reduction program, state-owned
lands may be eliminated from cane prc,duction and made available for agrarian
reform programs. Arrangements between CEA and IAD to implement such programs
would be faster and more effective on the basis of a well organized and
executed cadaster.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
11.       There already exists a national cadaster program under the responsi-
bility of the National Cadaster Directorate (DCN) 1/; therefore, any attempt
by CEA to carry out a full cadastral survey of its own holdings and of
outgrowers' farms should be fully coordinated with the efforts of the
national agency to avoid duplication. There are, however, specific data
directly related to the sugar industry, such as cane varieties, yields,
agricultural practices, and degree of mechanization, which would be added to
the normal questions on surface area, ownership, crops, livestock, and farm
infrastructure. A well-designed cadastral questionnaire, jointly with
controlled aerial photographic mosaics, would provide the basic information
necessary to cane productivity increase and area reduction program and
contribute to the work of the national cadaster program.
Soil Survey
12.       Soil studies have been made in various CEA estates at different
times, but no attempt has been made to use them as a basis for improved
agricultural practices or selection of production areas. These studies, in
fact, have seldom been preserved in their entirety and reports can be found
without the corresponding maps and vice versa. Perhaps the most studied
estate has been Barahona where Aughtry and Lunin 2/ made a soil classifica-
tion study and a study on fertilizer levels and later Bonnet 3/ interpreted
them and made recommendations for a detailed soil survey of the estate. Such
studies are included in the project proposed for Bank financing (Annex 3).
13.       The availability of aerial photography at 1:20,000 scale will
facilitate a semi-detailed soil survey which would serve as a basis for a
potential land suitability classification on which to base a program to
increase land productivity. A basic soil survey at the level of series,
types and phases, with adequate chemical and physical analyses coverage,
would provide the basis for evaluation of the suitability of different areas
for cane or for other crops (para 18). In the case of Barahona, such studies
would complement the soil survey related to the rehabilitation of the irriga-
tion and drainage schemes which are already included in the proposed project.
Terrain details included in the soil survey would provide essential informa-
tion for the identification of areas suitable for mechanized harvesting after
the results of a proposed pilot project on mechanization of agricultural
operations in Boca Chica are known (Annex 5).
1/   Part of the national cadaster program is being executed under an IDB-
financed agricultural development project (PIDAGRO).
2/   Aughtry, J.D. and Lunin, J., The Fertilization of Certain Irrigated Soil
Types of the Dominican Republic (1967).
3/   Bonnet, J.A., Informe Final del Estudio de Suelos en los Campos de Cana de
Azucar del Ingenio Barahona de la Republica Dominicana (1970).



- 165 -
ANNEX 4
Transport Study
14.       The objective of a program to reduce cane areas and increase field
productivity is mainly to reduce cane production costs thus increasing the
benefits of sugar production. In this effort to reduce costs, transportation
of cane becomes an important factor and distance from field to factory or to
railway or truck siding is critical to the economic evaluation of a given cane
area. The determination of the economic distance beyond which transporta-
tion of cane becomes non-economical is, therefore, essentiaL to any program
aimed at reducing sugarcane growing areas. Otherwise, the benefits resulting
from improved agricultural practices and higher yields would be offset by
the increased transportation cost in the more remote areas. This is the
case, particularly when assessing the economic feasibility of harvesting
some of the outgrowers' cane or administration cane in the :Largest sugar
estates.
15.       A study to determine the economic hauling distances would take into
consideration the transportation costs from each area identified as highly
productive for cane by the land suitability studies (para 183) under different
systems of transportation such as oxen, tractor-trailers, trucks and raílway.
In cases of longer distances, the economic feasibility of constructing
additional railway branches could be considered. On the basis of this
study, alternative ateas could be identified which should be planted and
harvested under varying sugar price assumptions. The elimination of the
less economically distant fields would be implemented progrtessively, as
target increases in cane productivity were achieved.
C. Productivity Increase
16.       The basic studies described in the previous paragraphs constitute
the foundation for a program to increase productivity in cane production,
prerequisite to any attempt to substantially reduce cane area. Increase in
productivity, however, is a twofold achievement involving both increased
volume or weight of cane per unit area and higher sucrose content in the
mature cane. The first aspect reflects directly on cost reduction by
decreasing labor required for land preparation and crop cultivation, and by
allowing area reduction which results in savings in transport costs. The
second will improve factory efficiency by increasing overal:L sugar factory
yields. Under the present system of payment for cane, all outgrowers would
benefit from higher sucrose content in the cane, but under an appropriate
system for payment of cane based on its quality rather than weight, such as
proposed for a pilot project in Monte Llano sugar estate (Annex 6), only those
outgrowers willing to improve the sugar yields of their cane would benefit
directly, 1:hus providing a much-needed incentive for productivity increases.
17.       Productivity increases both in cane volume and sucrose content are
the result of improved agricultural practices such as better land preparation,
selection of cane varieties and high quality seed, improved cultural practices,
use of irr:Lgation, and selection of the most suitable areas for cane production.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
To achieve these improvements, three elements are essential: (a) a good
land suitability survey of the available areas; (b) an efficient research
effort to determine the most suitable varieties of cane and agricultural
practice tur each set of soil and terrain condtions; and (c) an efficient
extension service to transmit the results of the research both to the staff
responsible for agriculture in each sugar estate and the outgrowers willing
to make the additional effort to improve their cane crops.
Land Suitability Survey
18.       A land suitability survey would be carried out simultaneously with
the standard soil survey (para 12) and taking into consideration other rele-
vant factors for cane production (such as terrain, availability of irrigation
water, rainfall amount and distribution) as well as suitability to other
crops. The resulting land map should indicate: (a) general land suitability
for rainfed agriculture with subclasses indicating principal limiting factors;
(b) suitability classes for cane production; and (c) suitability classes for
other crops, particularly food crops. These maps would be presented on the
1:20,000 controlled photomosaics (para 7) and serve as a basis for selection
of areas on which productivity increase efforts would concentrate.
19.       The land suitability survey should be extended beyond the CEA lands
to include outgrowers' farms. The additional cost would be relatively low
and the information obtained would be useful both for outgrowers wishíng to
improve their cane productivity and for those interested in other crops,
particularly in the context of Government policy of increasing food and
industrial crops. The results of thís survey would also be fundamental in
determining areas with lower productíon potential for cane and thus candi-
dates for progressive reduction as increased yield targets are achieved.
Agricultural Research
20.       Agricultural research is essential to any effort to increase
productivity. In relation to cane, research is necessary on a wide scope of
subjects such as cane varieties, land preparation, seed selection and
treatment, cultivation practices, fertilization, disease and pest control,
determination of optimal cane maturity, use of irrigation and/or drainage
methods. However, to obtain full advantage of the research program, these
investigations must be carried out for varying soil and climate conditions
and would therefore have to be based on a land suitability study (para 18).
21.       Agricultural research is at present being carried out at the
Duquesa Experimental Station, the main institution within CEA responsible
for research on cane production. It is located some 100 km west of Santo
Domingo and has 187 ha of land under its administration but special trial
plots are located throughout the CEA estates. The division operates as an
autonomous unit with an annual budget of RD$ 700,000. It has its own board
of directors which reports directly to the CEA central office in Santo



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Domingo. Its organization is composed of an administrator and seven tech-
nical divisions under the supervision of a technical director. The tech-
nical sections are: plant breeding, variety trials, soils and fertilizers,
weed control, entomology, phytopathology and statistics. In addition, six
technical advisers, in different technical fields, are loc;ated in Puerto
Rico and visit the station periodically.
22.       Duquesa's current activities consist mainly of a small breeding
program in cooperation with the Barbados breeding station ithrough an annually
renewed agreement. Advanced varieties and seedlings are provided under this
agreement for trial and introduction in the Dominican Republic, and widespread
variety and fertilizer trials are being carried out in difiEerent CEA
estates. Other activities at Duquesa are mainly laboratory-oriented and
concern biological aspects of cane production.
23.       Existing facilities at Duquesa are well suited for an intensified
program to increase cane productivity. The experimental station, with a
strengthened soils laboratory, can provide substantial support to the
land suitability survey program and benefit from this exercise in the
organization of its cane variety and fertilizer research efforts. While at
present there is little involvement in the agronomic aspect:s of cane produc-
tion (land preparation, cultural practices, and such), the station recently
took steps to add irrigation as one of its activities and should in the
future be involved in the mechanization pilot project in Boca Chica estate
(Annex 5) and in all aspects of cane production which influence crop pro-
ductivity. To achieve its proper role in a program to increase productivity,
the experimental station will require, in addition to limited support from
the proposed project, an extensive r,eorganization of its structure and
objectives more geared to the present needs of the industry and which will
allow a more direct use of its already substantial budget for the purposes
of the productivity increase program.
24.       A more effective applied research approach is needed; however, if
the experimental station is to play the required role in the effort to
increase cane productivity, coordination with the agricultural staff in each
of the project sugar estates is requLred.  Also needed is a frequent and
extensive exchange between Duquesa and CEA estates on research requirements
and resul:s of research conducted by the station. While the responsibility
of initiating such exchange lies with both parties, Duquesa should be more
active in identifying the research requirements and in monitoring the applica-
tion and results of its recommendations.
25.       Outgrowers' apathy to cane research can be overcome through an
effectíve extension service which would seek out private growers, indicate
the benef:Lts of improved agricultura.L practices, and be ready to assist
them in the application of the stat¡on's recommendations. Should the
results of the pilot project on paymBnt for cane on the basis of sucrose
content prove successful, the station should be ready to supply the technical
advice required by the outgrowers to benefit from this incentive.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Agricultural Extension
26.       Extension is an essential part of any effort to improve produc-
tivity in both the CEA estates and the outgrowers' farms. Agricultural
extension is practically non-existent for cane outgrowers and very limited
within the CEA estates themselves. Contact between research at Duquesa and
the agricultural staff of CEA is mainly restricted to periodical meetings.
The exchange necessary to guide research programs and improve agricultural
practices is also very limited. While the information and support of the
experimental station is directed at the outgrowers as well as the CEA
estates, outgrowers seldom request them and, besides, there is no mechanism
to monitor the results of technical recommendations. However, one exception
is the cane breeding program whereby Duquesa conducts some variety trials
on outgrowers' farms and they, in turn, procure from CEA the seedlings of
new varieties. Nevertheless, a much needed system to assist the growers,
for example, in various aspects of field production, improvement of their
operations, crop diversification is lacking.
27.       The extension task is, in part, carried out by the fíeld foremen
in the estates but, without a strong link to experimentation, the advice
they can offer is limited to their academie background or personal experience.
The function, however, is implicit in the agricultural departments of each
estate and, if it is to work, there must be organization and well-directed
efforts. The mechanisms are known for transmitting technical information on
improved or more suitable varieties and better agricultural practices from the
experimental station to the estates and the outgrowers as well as feedback
from the field to the research staff on specific problems requiring early
attention. In this respect, the research and field staffs must meet one
another half way.
28.       Extension work, whether directed to the estates or the outgrowers,
is closely related with a statistical program which keeps track of results
obtained from each recommendation implemented and provides the feedback to
direct additional research. Once a program of extension is designed along
these lines, its execution becomes part of the day-to-day operations of the
agricultural staff in CEA. Providing these services to the outgrowers,
however, may require additional manpower. If proper extension services are
provided to link cane research with production in the CEA mills, the resulting
increases in productivity would provide the incentive for outgrowers to rely
more on new technical information. The possibility of payment for cane
based on sucrose content would supply the additional incentive needed for a
successful extension effort directed to outgrowers.
29.       In the context of the proposed project, the present research
activities of the Duquesa Experiment Station as well as its involvement in
basic soil and land suitability studies (paras 12 and 18), the results of the
proposed mechanization pilot project in Boca Chica and the program to implement
payment of sugarcane based on sucrose content at Monte Llano, should provide
sufficient information for an extension service to begin improving fíeld
operations on both the CEA estates and outgrowers' farms.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
The present excess of cane, which leaves a substantial amount uncut, tends
to discourage the added effort of agricultural extension. An unwritten CEA
policy has, in fact, been to avoid productivity increases in order not to
reduce the volume of cane provided by outgrowers. With the implementation
of a program to reduce cane areas and improve cane productivity, however,
the extension component should be accorded a high priority.
D. Reduction of Cane Area
30.       A program to rationalize cane production through increased field
productivity and reduced production areas, thus bringing down the cost of
producing the raw material for the industry, must consider two different
situations: (a) the CEA estates; and (b) the outgrowers. In the first
instance, Government owns the land involved in the reduction and is able to
make decisions on whether to maintain the reduced areas as a reserve for
future expansions of sugar output, use them for other agricultural purposes
(livestock, food crops), or transfer them to other national agencies such as
the IAD. In the second case, the outgrowers own their own farms and the
reduction of cane area would most likely be compensated by some other
agricultural use to avoid a decrease in the outgrowers' farm income. In
both cases, however, ensuring the supply of cane to the mills is the first
consideration and this requires a careful balance between cane requirements
of the mills, including reserves, and cane production area.
Reduction of CEA Cane Areas
31.       The first stage of this program includes the elimination of
production areas where productivity has declined to a point where harvesting
of cane is not economic. This is the case particularly in some highly
saline areas of Barahona sugar estate, and some of the outlaying areas of
Rio Haina. This type of area reduction is an ongoing process and, in most
cases, involves only abandoning the fields without providing any kind of
agricultural attention. The decision to abandon a field is the result of
direct observation of declining productivity or of analysis of harvest
reports. Since there is an excess of standing cane in the field, reduction
of some of the less productive areas does not normally require compensatory
measures to ensure supply to the mills.
32.       A further step is the proposed program that is based on a gradual
increase in cane productivity and a corresponding decrease in production area.
Such program must be based on an estimate of the cane requirements of each
project mill after the proposed rehabilitation takes place. An estimate of
these requirements by CEA is as follows:



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Cane Reguirement in the Project Mills
After Rehabilitation
(m ton)
Project              Total Milling             Reserve Cane            Total Cane
Mill                Reguirement 1/                 20%               Reguirement 2/
Barahona                775,500                  155,100                  930,600
Rio Haina             2,086,100                  417,300                2,503,400
Ozama                   947,900                  189,600                1,137,500
Boca Chica              634,900                  127,000                  761,900
Consuelo                816,300                  163,300                  979,600
Quisequeya              453,500                   90,700                  544,200
1/   Based on the following average milling periods:  Barahona and Ozama,
190 days; Rio Raína, Boca Chica, Consuelo and Quisqueya, 200 days.
2/   Includes CEA estates and outgrowers' cane.
33.       To determine the area required to supply the rehabilitated mills'
capacity, assumptions must be made on the percentage of cane requirements to
be supplied by the project estates and the proportion to be supplied by the
outgrowers, whích were: (a) Rio Haina, 57% administration and 43% outgrowers;
(b) Ozama and Boca Chica, 53% and 47%; (c) Consuelo, 63% and 37%; and (d)
Quisqueya, 58% and 42%. Barahona only mills state cane. A second assump-
tion is the average yields expected per unit area in order to determine the
land required to produce the needed supply for the project mills plus the
20% reserve CEA's average yield assumptions are: (a) 116 m ton/ha for
Barahona, which is fully irrigated; (b) 56.1 m ton/ha for Rio Haina,
Consuelo and Quisqueya; and (c) 59.4 m ton/ha for Ozama and Boca Chica. On
the basis of these assumptions, the area required to produce the supply
shown in paragraph 32 and the area available for reduction are as follows:



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Area Reguired in Project Estates to Produce Cane Supply
(1)              (2)             (3)           (3 - 2)
Cane Required   Area Required   Area in Cane   Excess Cane
Project              from Project   to Produce (1)    1978-80             Area
Estate             Estates (m ton)        (ha)              (ha)          (ha)
Barahona                930,600          8,020            10,375          2,355
Rio Haina             1,421,000         25,440            35,680         10,240
Ozama                   602,900          10,150            8,490        -1,660 1/
Boca Chica              403,800          6,800             7,470            670
Consuelo                617,100          11,000           13,640          2,640
Quisequeya              315,700          5,630             8,110          2,480
Total                 4,297,100         67,040            83,765         16,725 2/
1/   Estimate shows Ozama as not being able to produce its own cane supply.
The balance must be obtained by planting additional cane or transporting
it from one of the excess cane areas in other estates.
2/   In addition, there is an excess estimated at 16,070 ha in outgrowers'
cane.
34.       The above exercise is presented as an example of the process to
arrive at area reduction decisions. Fundamental assumptions such as expected
yield increases must be based not on overall estimates but on actual experi-
ence resulting from implementation of the productivity increase program
described in paragraphs 16 to 29. Furthermore, calculation of area required
provides only quantitative solutions. Information provided by basic studies
(paras 6 to 15) is required to determine the actual areas available to each CEA
estate, their suitability to cane production, and the economic distance from
field to factory or to railway or truck siding. Only with a balanced analysis
of all these factors can final decisions be taken on area reduction without
risk of endangering cane supply to the mills.
Reduction of Outgrowers' Cane Areas
35.       While CEA does not have control over outgrowers' farms, it can
discourage excess production of cane through the contracts establishing
purchase of cane by the mills. This action, as indicated earlier, has
already been initiated with revision before renewal of outgrowers' contracts
to eliminate areas of low productivíty or beyond economic distance from
sugar factories or transport sidings. At present, (1978/79), this procedure
has not created serious problems because most of the outgrowers whose
contracts have not been renewed only became cane producera during the sugar
boom years 1974-76, and large parts of the areas eliminated were clearly
marginal for cane. As cane productiv:Lty increases in the CEA estates,
requirements from outgrowers may tend to decrease, at least until a balance
has been reached when CEA estates achieve their optimum productivity level.
The outgrowera, however, should regard the area reduction program as a means
to reduce production costs and make laad available for other, perhaps, more
profitable, agricultural uses.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
36.       The subject of cane area reduction in outgrowers farms is one of
both economic and social importance. It must be based on a delicate balance
since more than cane supply to the mills is involved. Realizing this, CEA,
jointly with the SEA and the IAD, has formed a working group to study the
reduction of cane areas. The support from these two agencies is important
in settling new farmers on CEA land eliminated from cane production and in
diversifying crops on the outgrowers' farms where cane area reduction has
taken place.
E. The Program
37.       The proposed program would finance the consulting services to
implement basic studies (aerial photography, cadastral and soil surveys, and
transport study), as well as those for design of a productivity increase
program and an area reduction program. Implementation of the two latter
programs, however, can only rest with CEA itself, although other agencies
(SEA, IAD, FEDOCA) can provide valuable assistance. The decision to initiate
and maintain a sustained effort to increase productivity through better
research and extension and improved agricultural practices and to gradually
reduce the areas in cane as the productivity targets are achieved cannot be
made by external consultants, but only by the responsible staff in the
institution.
38.       The actions involved in the implementation of the program are not
separate from the normal functions of the agricultural production responsibility
of CEA and are not, therefore, included in the cost of the program. Estimated
costs for the additional services required are presented in Annex 4, Table 1.
May 5, 1979



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 1
DOMIN]ECAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Program for Reduction of Cane Areas in the Project Sugar Estates
Detaile¿l Cost Estimates
US$ equivalent
1.   BASIC SURVEYS
Aerial Photography
Controlled aerophotographic mosal.cs of yroject
estates and outgrowers' farms (7,000 km )
1:20,000 scales                                                 80,000
Soil Survey
Semi-detaíled survey at 1:20,000 scale with
aerophotographic mosaic base                                   350,000
Cadastral Survey
Land ownership survey of all project estates
and outgrowers' farm with questionnaire on
agricultural practices, cane yields, virieties,
other crops, livestock, etc. (7,000 km )600,000
Transport Study
Analysis of economic distances of nore suit-
table production areas and outgrowers' farms
to mill or transport (railway or truck) siding                  50,000
2.   PRODUCTIVITY INCREASE
Land Suitability Survey
Land c:lassification for general agricultural
purposes (standard US Soil Conservation
Service) and suitability to cane and other
high priority crops.  Scale 1:20,000                           350,000



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 2
US$ equivalent
Agricultural Research
Strengthening of Duquesa Experiment Station
laboratories and services for participation
in basic surveys and productivity increase
programs                                                       300,000
Agricultural Extension
Design of agricultural extension program for
project estates and outgrowers; purchase of
vehicles and equipment; cost of new variety
seediíngs and demonstration plots                              300,000
3.   AREA REDUCTION SCHEME
Design of cane area reduction programs over
a five-year period for project estates and
outgrowers' farms                                              100,000
4.   GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
Establishment of a geographic information
system to permanently assist in evaluating
and improving the long-term management of
the resource base                                              200,000
Total Baseline Cost;                                    2,330.000
April 2, 1979



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural and Harvesting Mechanization Pilot Research
in Boca Chica Sugar Estate
Introduction
1.        All operations of the State Sugar Council (CEA), from cane produc-
tion to marketing of refined sugar, aire fully integrated, with the related
infrastructure and facilities, production farmas, transport system, sugar
factories, and the like, being under direct ownership and control of CEA.
However, under the present system, varíous operations such as land prepara-
tion and cultivation are conducted by contractors, which often results in
low-efficiency mechanized operations, particularly in regard to depth and
furrowing, and in poor timing due to conflicting commitments on the part of
the contractors. In addition, frequeincy and standards of operation are
uniform for all estates, regardless of soil conditions. These problems are
compounded since CEA exercises littlei control over contractor's work and
performa little supervision.
2.        The Dominican Republic relies heavily on the seasonal migration of
Haítian laborers for the harvesting of sugarcane. While the cost of this
labor remains relatively low, its availability is always dependent on political
factors that are outside the control of the sugar industry and it has been
known to become a critical factor for the industrial process. It is well
known that not all terrain in the CEA. sugar estates lends itself to mechanized
harvesting and that, as indicated by other Bank experience in sugar projects 1/,
successful mechanization requires several years of intensive and careful
training and the development of a group of specialized operators. However,
the possibility of mechanizing cane harvesting cannot be discarded, at
least in those estates or parts of estates where terrain justifies such an
approach.  The use of more sophisticated and costly mechanization, such as
large loaders, should be delayed for a later phase of the project, if and
when overall mechanization has been found to be technically and economically
feasible.
3.        The investment cost of mechanizing both the agricultural and
harvesting operations is high, and operation and maintenance of the required
equipment would represent a substantial operational cost which requires
careful economic and financial justification. Furthermore, the process of
mechanizing operations which have been traditionally carried out by less
sophisticated techniques cannot be achieved over a short period but would
require considerable effort to train operators for each typie of machine and
develop a well-trained repair and maintenance staff. Other aspects of an
efficient mechanized operation include improving the communication systems,
maintaining a well-stocked reserve of spare parts and efficiently storing
and distributing various kinds of fuel.
1/   Caroní Sugar Rehabilitation Project Completion Report, January 8, 1979.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
4.        Taking into consideration the above complexities, any effort to
mechanize operations in the sugar industry should start with a pilot project
and careful monitoring to determine the efficiency, both technical and
economic, of different stages of mechanized operations and to identify the
staff training and support facilities required for effective use of machinery.
Such a pilot project should be carried out preferably on one estate that has
terrain conditions suitable for increased mechanization, particularly
harvesting operations, and that is already using some mechanization to
facilitate its expansion. On the basis of results from such a pilot project,
areas of other estates that have conditions similar to those where mechanized
operations are proven to be economically and technically effective can be
gradually incorporated into the program until mechanization has reached all
the estates of the CEA in the degree justified by the conditions on each
estate. Similarly, training of machinery operators and repair and mainten-
ance workshop staff would eventually be expanded from the pilot estate to
others.
5.        To conduct the proposed pilot project, the Boca Chica sugar estate
is recommended on the basis of its predominantly flat terrain, its relative
closeness to Santo Domingo, its current use of machinery for many of the
agricultural operations, and the availability of trained repair and mainten-
ance staff.
Boca Chica Sugar Estate
6.        The Boca Chica sugar mill, which would have a milling capacity
of about 3,700 m/ton of cane per day after project rehabilitation, is
located on the southern coast of the country, some 25 km east of the capital
city of Santo Domingo. The mill is supplied by a cultivated area estimated
at 19,620 ha, of which almost 80% was harvested in the 1976/77 season. Of
these, 59%, or 11,640 ha, correspond to outgrowers. 1/ The 7,980 ha of
administration cane occupy land extending roughly east-west, north of the main
Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris highway. The soils in most of the estate
are predominantly well structured clays and clay loams overlaying coraline
limestone, with some interspersed alluvial clays. The terrain is predominantly
flat to gently rolling, with slopes rarely exceeding 1:25 (4%), while in the
northern part of the cane areas, they seldom exceed 1:50 (2%). Shallow soils
and limestone fragments constitute the major limitations to agricultural
mechanization, but it is estimated 2/ that stony lands occupy no more than 800
ha located in the southeastern part of the estate. Drainage seems to be a
serious problem in parts of the farm, particularly in areas of alluvial soíls,
but these are not generally used for cane production.
1/   The outgrowers' federation (FEDOCA) estimates total outgrowers' area
at 10,450 ha for the 1978/79 season (Annex 9, Table 1).
2/   Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services Ltd (BATS), Report on
the Agriculture of CEA, Vol. 1, 1974.



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
7.        Cane varieties in Boca Chica are predominantly B4362 (51%)
and PR980 (32%), with other varieties constituting an additional 17%.
Average yields under present conditions are about 51 m/ton/ha/year, con-
siderably below the average for Barahona (82 m/ton/ha) but comparable to
Ozama (52 m/ton/ha) and Quisqueya (50 m/ton/ha), higher than Rio Haina (46
m/ton/ha) and Consuelo (48 m/ton/ha), and within the overall average for all
CEA sugar mills (50 to 55 m/ton/ha).
8.        Cultural Practices.  Land preparation is already mechanized and
consists of a first ploughing, a cross-ploughing, and subsequent harrowing
and furrowing. Sub-soiling is carried out on heavy clay soils before or
after cross-ploughing, but it seldom occurs in Boca Chica. Frequency and
standards of operation are uniform for all parts of the estate regardless of
soil conditions. First and second ploughings are carried ouat by the same
equipment, usually a disc plough. The rate of ploughing is about 0.5 ha per
hour and depth usually does not exceed 8 to 10 cm, sufficient for some of
the shallow coraline soils but not enough for the deeper red and brown clay
and clay loam soils. Harrowing is done at a rate of about 0.7 ha per hour,
usually with 24-inch disc harrows. Furrowing is normally done with two-row
mould-board ridgers at depths ranging from 20 to 50 cm, depending on land
conditions, and at a rate of about 1.2 ha per hour. Land planing, which is
carried out in Barahona, is seldom done in Boca Chica, although some of the
areas show shallow depressions which could be easily corrected by this
practice.
9.        Seedcane is usually planted by hand at a rate of 4 to 6.5 m/ton/ha,
depending on the area, but some successful attempts have been made to use a
mechanical planter. The cuttings are usually planted at a depth of 0.8 to 2.0
cm with a 50% 4- to ll-cm overlap. With some varieties (e.g., PR980), planting
is done on a continuous line.
10.       Fertilizer is generally applied by hand, first in the furrow at
planting time and later by air broadcasting or by hand on the top of the row.
Boca Chica has at least one mechanical fertilizing machine which has been in
use but wit:hout monitoring of results as compared with hand application.
11.       Harvesting and Loading.  Cane harvesting is done entirely by hand
and loading is generally done in the same manner although there has been
some experience with push-piler type mechanical loaders.  The main source of
labor is Haiti, which supplies about l[5,0000 laborers annually. 1/ This
source of labor has been traditionally available except for short periods of
political unrest between the two countries, but no attempt has been made to
measure the economic cost to the country of the yearly drairL of foreign
exchange or the impact of this massive import of labor on the domestic labor
market.
1/   10,OOC' regularly and an additional 5,000 during peak season.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
12.       The possibility of mechanizing cane harvesting and loading in the
CEA estates has been considered on several occasions and a study was carried
out to determine the advisability of introducing mechanized harvesters. 1/
In its study of the national sugar industry, BATS 2/ assessed the efficiency
of the present harvesting system and estimated that losses of 2 to 4 m/ton
per ha occur in most fields with the present harvest techniques. However,
no indication is given in the report that mechanical harvesting should be
considered. Recent contracts of CEA personnel with neighboring countries
which use mechanical harvesters (i.e., Cuba, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico) may
have been instrumental in awakening interest in this aspect of mechanization,
but, there are many complementary measures to be taken (improved land prepara-
tion and planting, training of specialized operators, and such), as indicated
by the Downs report (op. cit.) and by experience in Jamaica, Australia and
other countries, before mechanized harvesting can be introduced and then it
should be done gradually and on an experimental level in order to determine
whether it is technically feasíble and economically justified.
13.       Both administration and outgrowers' cane in Boca Chica is loaded
by hand into ox-carts or tractor trailers for transport to rail sidings
where it is transloaded by crane or by hand. Administration cane requires
only one transloading, but outgrowers' cane may require more than one or go
directly to the mill. The use of mechanical harvesters would make mechanical
loaders a justified investment, but it is recommended that this latter step
be taken only after a pilot project has demonstrated the feasibility of
effectively using the mechanical harvesters.
14.       Downs 3/, based on 1971/72 data, indicates that 97% of all lands
in Boca Chica are suitable for mechanical harvesting. The remaining 3% has
slopes steeper than 15 degrees (33%) or is sufficiently rocky or stony to
affect machinery operation (Annex 5, Table 1). To supply the estimated mill
requirements of 700,000 m/ton of cane after rehabilitation and a daily
milling capacity of 3,300 m/ton, 14 harvesters would be required.
Pilot Project
15.       The proposed pilot project for mechanization of agricultural and
harvesting operations in the Boca Chica sugar estate would, in its first
phase, concentrate on improving land preparation, planting and cultivation,
and weed and pest control and on introducing mechanical harvesting in a
limited area of the estate. In addition, mechanized maintenance of roads and
ditches would also be improved and facilities provided for storage, repair
and maintenance of the mechanical equipment. The entire operation would be
the subject of a monitoring scheme to determine the advantages of increasing
1/   R. Downs, Report on Mechanization of Sugarcane, (1973).
2/   BATS, op. cit.
3/   Op. cit.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
mechanization and the limitations to the most effective use of machinery.
The results of this monitoring and evaluation exercise would later be used
as a guide for mechanization of other CEA sugar estates. Annex 5, Table 2
summarizes the equipment proposed and project costs.
16.       Land Preparation.  Improved mechanized land preparation would
require rubber-tired tractors and harrows for land breaking, cross-ploughing
and tilling (Annex 5, Table 2, Item 1). The proposed machinery has been
selected on the basis of soil conditions in the area and the need to achieve
a well-tilled seedbed and prevent formation of clods which would later
result in inefficient agricultural and harvesting operations. Rubber tires
have been preferred over tracks because they provide sufficient traction
under predominant soil conditions while causing less damage to soil structure
in cane fields. In order to achieve optimum till, however, ploughing under
the best moisture conditions possible is essential.
17.       While land preparation, which is generally carrie,d out by contrac-
tors, is aLready mechanized in Boca Chica, the additional equipment would
allow the estate to improve and expand its existing facilities and reduce
its dependency on outside equipment and labor. The increased control and
supervision of land preparation by CEA staff would result in improved
quality and timing of agricultural operations, important factors to inerease
productivity, particularly in areas harvested mechanically.
18.       Planting and Cultivation.  The Boca Chica sugar estate already has
two mechanical planters but they are being used inefficient]Ly or not at all.
The pilot project would provide tractors suitable for drouglit of these
planters, as well as fertilizer spreaders which would mecharnize this opera-
tion, at present largely carried out by hand. In addition, tractors, plows
and cultivators would be supplied for cultural operations in new planting
and ratoons (Annex 5, Table 2, Item 2).
19.       Weed and Pest Control.  AppLication of herbicides and insecticides
to prevent major cane weeds and pests would be improved with additional
sprayer equipment (Annex 5, Table 2, Item 3). If results of research on the
origin and control of the recent rust infection indicate thei need for inten-
sive spraying, the proposed equipment may prove insufficient. At present, the
use of the spreaders would be mainly for insecticides (Endrin, Diazanon or
Lanate) for protection against leaf caterpillar (Calisto pulchella).
20.       Harvesting.  An initial area of 3,000 ha would serve as a pilot
operation for mechanical harvesters. This area is based on the use of three
combine-type mechanical harvesters with an operating capacity of about 15 ha
per day over a period of 194 days, the estimated working period for the mill
after project rehabilitation. These three harvesters (Annex 5, Table 2, Item
4) would supply a total of some 765 m/ton per day, or 23% of the daily cane
requirement of the rehabilitated mill.



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
21.       To achieve maximum efficiency from the mechanical harvesters, a
number of conditions must be satisfied. Without such efficient use, the
results of monitoring and evaluation of mechanized harvesting would not
reflect its true potential. In addition to proper training of operators for
the equipment, field conditions should be such as to facilitate best results
from the harvesters. These conditions include:
(a) fields with long rows of cane;
(b)  minimal drainage in the field;
(c)  adequate spacing at the ends of each row for maneuvering
of harvesters and transport equipment; and
(d)  fields large enough to allow a reasonable volume of
cane to be harvested.
22.       The soil itself must be well prepared and free from clods, rocks
or large pieces of wood that could either obstruct the operation of the
equipment or be picked up and delivered to the mill jointly with the cane.
Cane characteristics that enhance the efficiency of mechanized harvesting
include: (a) high sucrose content; (b) well-defined maturity; (c) compact
but good sprouting stumps; (d) uniform and even growth; (e) strong ratoon
ability; (f) resistance to pests and diseases; and (g) adaptability to
varying soil conditions. These characteristics, however, can be achieved
only through careful variety selection and improved agricultural practices,
which constitute an important part of the area reduction component of the
proposed project (Annex 4).
23.       Field Maintenance.  Field leveling, ditch cleaning and internal
road maintenance are operations which, although not directly related to land
preparation, assume an important role in the efficient management of cane
production. Some of these tasks are already somewhat mechanized in Boca
Chica, but they are still time consuming and, in some cases, particularly
land leveling, are almost never done. Weeding of drainage ditches and
roadside slopes is necessary and can be critical for adequate drainage of
cane fields and efficient transport of the cut cane. These operations are
very well adopted to mechanization through mechanical graders and rotary
mowers such as proposed for the pilot project (Annex 5, Table 2, Item 5).
24.       Equipment Storage and Repair and Maintenance Workshop.  Adequate
protection, repair and maintenance of mechanical equipment is at least as
important as its efficient use in the field. Storage facilities for agricul-
tural equipment is at present almost non-existent in Boca Chica, and valuable
machinery, such as mechanical planters, have been observed stored in an open
field and showing indications of deterioration from neglect. The availability
of maintenance and repair facilities, both in the field and in a workshop,
are an essential component of any mechanization scheme since time lost
because of faulty or broken equipment can be extremely costly. These costs
include not only actual labor not properly utilized, but ineffective use of
the mill and loss of sucrose in cane already cut but detained in the field
because of mechanical deficiencies.



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
25.       To provide adequate repair service in the field with a minimum
loss of time, an efficient system of communications and transport must be
developed to support the mechanization scheme. A communication system
already exists and would be improved under the transport component of the
proposed project. To transport maintenance and repair personnel and equip-
ment, three pick-up trucks would be provided under the project, together with
an adequate storage facility and workshop and mobile repair and maintenance
equipment (Annex 5, Table 2, Item 6).
26.       Training, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Provision for six man-months
of technical assistance would be included in the proposed project (Annex 5,
Table 2, Item 7) to assist CEA in the organization of the pilot scheme and
training of staff. This organization would include the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation system to provide:
(a)  a comparison of cane yields, using the present and future
mechanization systems for a full crop cycle (six years);
(b)  a cost/benefit comparison of the two systems to CIEA;
(c) preparation of a master plan, including costs, for expan-
sion of mechanization to administration cane areas in all
other project estates if results of (a) and (b) are satis-
factory; and
(d) organization and staffing arrangements according to (e).
27.       Staff participating in the pilot scheme would receive necessary
training, particularly maintenance and repair staff and operators of mechanical
harvesters, all of whom require intensive training and cons:íderable experience
to effectively develop their skills.
28.       Organization and Management.  The proposed pilot scheme would be
carried out on a total of approximately 5,000 ha in Boca Chica over a period
of five years (20% of the area each year), except for the evaluation of cane
yields (para 26(a)), which would be extended to six years to cover a full crop
cycle. Staffing needs for the implementation of the scheme would consist of
an agricultural engineer to supervise and evaluate the operations, one
assistant to monitor implementation and results, and about 20 tractor
drivers and helpers.
29.       The required personnel would be drawn from the available CEA
staff and would be trained as requirecl. In addition to the US$1.2 million
capital costs, an estimated annual budget of RD$ 180,000, representing 15% of
capital costs per annum, would be required for the running costs of the
scheme. CEA has agreed to provide these running costs from its regular budget
and, consequently, they are not included in the proposed project costs.
April 2, 1979



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Performance  and    sicaCharacteristics at Boca Chica Sugar Estate
1. Mill Capacity (TCD)
Present (m ton)                                        2,993
After Rehabilitation (m ton)                           3,356
2.  Harvest Season (November-Jvlne)                             195 days
3. Sugarcane Area (ha)
Administration                                         7,980 (41%)
Outgrowers                                           11,640 (59%)
Total:          19,620
4.  Average Yields (m ton/ha/year)                               51
5.  Cane Production (m ton)1/                               752,414
6.  Sugar Produced (m ton/year)_/                            77,623
7. Physical Characteristics of the Estate
Average (1965-77) rainfall during harvest
season (mm)                                             74
Terrain with less than 4% slopes (ha)                19,030 (97%)
Terrain with 4% to 33% slopes (ha)                       590 (3%)
Terrain with more than 33% slopes                          -
Rocky or stony terrain (ha)                              605 (3%)
Terrain suitable for mechanized harvesting (ha)   19,000 (97%)
Sugarcane suitable for mechanized harvesting
(m ton)                                           775,200
Administration cane suitable for mechanized
harvesting (m ton/day)                               3,975
1/ 1976/77.
Source: CEA, FAO/CP, Bookers Agricultural Technical Services, and Downs, R.
Report on Sugarcane Mechanization.
March 8, 1979



- 8:3 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agrlyc   Ltural and Harvesting Mechatiization Pilot Proict
in Boca Chica Sugar Estate
Detailed Cost Estimates
Unit       Tota]
Cost      Cost
- (USS '000) --
A.  Lquip_mett-
1.  Lancl PreparaticOtl
150-hp rubber--rirnc. t,i( tors      '¡ieh 1 u   36 h" w
for land-breakítig (2 J00
125-l'p rxibber-tlte(l trAc tors wJth. j' 26"
harl-ows for cross-plnughing and Lillíng (2)              40        80
2.  Plantín_ and Cultivatiur¡
100-hp rubber-tired tractors foi draught of
mecl,anica] planters (2)                                  25         50
4-ton capacity mechanical fertilizer spreaders (2)    9             18
80-hlp rubber-tired tractors with wouidboarad 14low,
and d.isc cultivators for opening of furrows ar.d
cu.l ivatiori (2)                                        20        40
100-hp rubbef-tired tractors with cultivator
equipment for alignment and cultivation of
ratoons (2)                                               4         90
3.  Weed and Pest Control
780-gallon sprayer equipment for application of
herbicides and insecticides (2)                            9        18
300-liter sprayers for applic,ation of herbicides
and insecticides (3)                                       9        27
4.  Harvesting
Combine-type mechanical cane harvesters with
incillary !'quipmerit (3)                               150(       450



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 2
Unit      Total
Cost      Cost
- (US$ '000) --
5. Field Maintenance
Mechanical grader for ditch cleaning and field
and road leveling (1)                                   100       100
Rotary mowers for ditch and road maintenance (2)          5          5
6.  Equipment Storage and Repair and Maintenance
Workshop
Open structure for storage of agricultural
and harvesting equipment (1)                             50         50
Workshop for repair and maintenance of
equipment (1)                                            50        50
Repair and maintenance tools and equipment              100       100
1-ton pick-up trucks for transportation of
repair and maintenance personnel and equipment           12         36
Total cost of equipment:                 1,214
B. Trainíng, Monitoring and Evaluation
7.  Technical assistance for design and establishment
of monitoring and evaluation system for
mechanization pilot project (6 man/months)                7         42
Total Pilot Project Capital Cost4l:               1,256
1/  Purchase of two combine-type cane harvesters (ltem 3a) and ratoon alignment
and cultivation equipment (Item 2c) has been proposed for inclusion in a
first phase of the overall investment program to be financed by CEA, thus
reducing the cost of the agricultural mechanization pilot project to be
financed under the proposed loan to US$866,000.
January 10, 1979



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Study for Payment to Outgrowers Based
on Sucrose Content
Introduction
1.        The law concerning cane outgrowers in the Dominican Republic 1/
requires that payment for production be based on the overall sucrose content
of all canes milled during the season. While additional provision is made
that, when overall yields exceed 12% sucrose content, 55% of the value of
the additional sugar produced will also be paid to the outgrower (Art. 20,
para I), this procedure does little to provide the incentives necessary to
increase sugar yields on individual farms since the efforts of a small number
of outgrowers would result in only a minor overall increase.
2.        The implementation of a program to increase cane productivity
and reduce cane areas, both in the State Sugar Council (CEA) sugar estates
and in the outgrowers' farms (Annex 4), will require, in the former case, an
incentive that will make farms willing to undertake the additional effort
and investment involved to introduce higher yielding varieties, more effec-
tive agricultural practices and improved harvesting and transport of cane
in order to achieve higher sugar yields in the mills. Probably the most
effective incentive would be a system under which the outgrower was paid,
not on the basis of cane weight, but on the basis of the sucrose content of
the juice taken from random samples of each outgrowers' supply to the mill.
Such a system is in use in many sugar-producing countries, and, in the United
States, in Puerto Rico and in the states of Florida, Louisiana and Texas.
3.        Introduction of a system to pay outgrowers' cane on the basis of
sucrose content has long been contemplated in the Dominican Republic and
has the support of the Dominican Federation of Cane Outgrowers (FEDOCA)
but reluctance to change traditional procedures or uncertainty as to the
results of such an approach have probably prevented its imp:lementation.
It must be recognized that a period in which cane producing areas are being
reassessed and consideration is being given to reallocating cane supplies
from small inefficient mills to larger mills proposed for rehabilitation
under the project is not the most appropriate time to introduce a new system
of payment to the outgrowers. However, the possibility of such an approach
should receive serious consideration in the context of the ]Long-term program
to increase productivity and reduce cane areas.
1/   Law 491 of October 23, 1969 on Cane Outgrowers.



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
4.         It is in the above context that a pilot study for payment to the
outgrowers on the basis of sucrose content is proposed in order that the
advantages which may derive from the implementation of such a procedure
can be determined and a methodology established which is simple and
efficient and which satisfies the CEA as well as the individual outgrowers.
To implement such a study, it is necessary to select a sugar estate that
is not very large, where outgrowers are well organized and where the delivery
system of cane from the outgrowers' farms to the mill lends itself to accurate
sampling in order to correlate the origin of the cane and the results of
the sucrose analysis. The sugar estate proposed as the site of this pilot
project is Monte Llano, located in the northern part of the country near
Puerto Plata and not included in the six mills covered by the proposed
rehabilitation project.
Monte Llano Sugar Estate
5.         Monte Llano sugar mill, with a milling capacity of some 2,000 m
ton of cane per day, is supplied by an area estimated at 6,330 ha, of
which more than 90% has been cultivated and harvested in recent years. Of
these, 2,960 ha, or 46% of the total, are held by outgrowers. The total
outgrower area, however, is estimated at 4,607 ha by the outgrowers' federa-
tion (Annex 6, Table 1). While the actual area being planted or harvested
by cane outgrowers will not be certain until a proper cadaster of CEA and
outgrower lands is carried out (Annex 4), it is evident that the area and the
number of outgrowers, estimated by FEDOCA at 156, are adequate for a pilot
project such as suggested in paragraph 4.
6.         Total cane production in Monte Llano has been estimated by CEA at an
average of 138,000 m ton/year, with an average yield of 48 m ton/ha. The
composition of the cane fields is almost equally divided between two varieties
(41%, B4362; 43%, PR980; 16%, others), thus allowing samples to be relatively
representative of the average.
7.         Transport of cane to the mill is by truck, which facilitates taking
samples and making identification at the delivery point, and the facts that
the outgrowers are well organized and the outgrowers' association well
established and operative tend to create the right conditions for a compara-
tive study of the present system of payment and the proposed method based on
sucrose content.
Terms of Reference for the Study
8.         The pilot study should be planned by an independent firm of consul-
tants which would set up the procedures for sampiing, Brix determination,
conversion of net cane into standard cane and calculation of payment to
outgrowers based on sucrose content as well as for recording results and
comparing payments under the present system. The pilot project should be



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
simple and capable of being carried cut without burdening the mill with
sophisticated equipment, either for determining sugar content or calculating
the corresponding payments. It should be established during the 1980/81
harvesting season, and, after results have been processed and a conclusion
arrived at as to the suitability of implementing the new system of payments,
a report and recommendation would be presented to CEA and the Bank.
April 2, 1979



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outgrowers Serving Monte Llano Sugar Estate1/
Number of              Area            MT cane/    Average
Outgrowers     %       (ha)      %       Year      Farm Size
Small (1-40 ha)           131         84    1,478      32      64,519       11.3
Medium (41-80 ha)          10          6      566      12       24,681      56.6
Large (81 ha)              15         10.   2,563      56     111,836      171.0
Total                     156        100    4,607    100      201036
Sugarcane areas estimated from cane production in 1977/78 harvest
based on an average yield of 39.6 m ton/ha.
Source: Federacion Dominicana de Colonos Azucareros (FEDOCA)
March 8, 1979



- 89 -
ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
1.        The appraisal mission has identified two general areas within the
framework of CEA's operational and administrative activities where sizeable
improvement could occur through the application of more updated management
techniques and principles. The areas are: (a) management information and
operational planning; and (b) personnel administration, training and organ-
ization. The services of a management consulting firm over a period of two
years are considered essential in the area of management and planning while
individual consultants would be hired from time to time to undertake specific
tasks in personnel administration and organization, following a plan of action
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
Management Information and OperationaL Planning
2.        Management Information.  Introduction of EDP methodology and facil-
ities to improve management information should concentrate on the following
sectors:
(a) payrolls (bimonthly, monthly, and temporary);
(b)  cane purchases from outgrowers (timing, production,
lending, arrears, administration, and interests);
(c)  cane planting, cultivation, harvesting of land owned
by CEA;
(d) inventory control (material, spare parts, animals, and such);
(e) budgeting (operational, capital, and administrative); and
(f)  accounting (financial planning, control, and monthly reporting).
The consultant will work with a team of CEA's system engineers to investigate
the present administration of the abovre-mentioned functions and define the
following tasks:
(a)  tabular definitions of decision rules for computer runs;
(b)  sources of information, input/output identification, registry
description, and summary of internal job descriptions;
(c) Operational, organizational chart, definition of functional
responsibilities, line and staff administrative responsibilities;



- 90 -
ANNEX 7
(d)  present information flow, description of present
information;
(e)  system, organizational chart, present rules and
responsibilities;
(f)  definition of new information system, functions,
departments, and filing organization; and
(g)  design of new information system, codification, data
filing, storing, and miscellaneous.
3.        Operational and Administrative Planning.  The consultants will
assist CEA through improvement and implementation of planning techniques in
all main management areas, and main areas of intervention, in addition to
those indicated in paragraph 2 (d and e) will be:
(a)  crop forecasting based on the previous history of fields
and outgrowers' performance, the proportion of plant cane
and ratoons, the weather and other relevant factors. The
timing of agricultural operations should be geared to the
area to be planted in a particular period, the different
cultivation operations required, the weather conditions
and the equipment needed;
(b)  harvesting planning on a day-to-day basis, related to the
overall plan for the processing of the crop in the optimum
period and the factory capacity. The program must be
arranged so that cane is cut and transported to meet daily
factory requirements. Excess cane cut and transported will
seriously affect sugar recovery. Quotas for cane delivery
must be carefully allocated between estate and colonos, and
a system implemented to monitor the deliveries. The sequence
of harvesting of estate fields must take into account the
replanting programs, i.e., fields to be replanted should be
cut early to allow sufficient time for cultivating and plant-
ing before the onset of rains;
(c)  transportation planning based on the above considerations;
(d)  planning of processing operations based on above considera-
tions; and
(e)  long-term business planning including changes in sugar processing
and transportation technological innovation.



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Personnel Administration, Training and Organization
4.         Personnel Administration aind Training.  The consultant will assist
CEA in introducing updated personnel management and administration techniques
and an overall training program for management and staff. Main specific tasks
will be:
(a)  evaluation of skill and potential of present staff (job
evaluation) and definition of trainíng needs and facilities
(courses, seminars, field esvaluations, and visits to other
factories);
(b)  establishment of an efficient system of personnel selection,
paying particular attention to career development, compensa-
tion, leave and retirement policies, work conditions, medical
insurance and fringe benefiLts, in general;
(c) analysis of existing train:ing programs in high schools, tech-
nical colleges and univers-ities, and their suitability for
CEA's training needs;
(d)  special attention in designing training programs to be stressed
in such skills as mechanical and clerical training; use and
maintenance of equipment; preventive maintenance; welding;
fitting; laboratory analysi:s; boiler operations; use of fertil-
izers, herbicides and pesticides; cane harvesting; and tractor
repairs;
(e) monitoring of training programs to ensure the meeting of
requirements, performance of participants, and course effective-
ness; and
(f) efforts to formulate a graduate training program for CEA mecha-
nical and chemical engineers.
5.         Organization.  The consultant will assist CEA in establishing
improvements in organization to act along operational (manufacturing,
transport, and- cultivation) and administrative lines for continued control
and improvement of day-to-day activities.  Main sectors of interest will be:
(a)  study of an updated decentralized system of operations and
management decisions;
(b)  investigation through business techniques (value analysis,
method, timing and means, aind linear programming) of present
operations and consequent reporting and advice to manage-
ment for modifications;



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
(c) analysis of principal tasks and responsibilities of main
operational and administrative functions and preparations
of departmental manuals of job descríptions;
(d) continuous evaluation of managerial and staff positions
to assess company's funetional needs and advice to manage-
ment for needed modifications; and
(e) preparation of departmental organization charts and manuals
for distribution to CEA's plant and administrative managers.
March 30, 1979



- 93 -
ANNEX 8
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHAIBILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants for Transportation
Technical Assistance
A. Rail Track Maintenance
Purpose
1.        The State Sugar Council (CEA) would improve the condition of the
track at all eight sugar estates that operate railroads to haul their cane.
Six mills have interconnected 30" gauge railroads while one has standard
(1.435 m) gauge and another 1 m gauge. The purpose of this program is to
reduce derailments and reduce track maintenance costs, especially after the
five-year track rehabilitation program has been completed.
2.        This CEA program would be partly financed by the Bank, and terms
of reference include preparing specifications for materials and equipment
to be used in track maintenance.
Terms of Reference
3.        The consultant would:
(a)  visit all CEA mills that operate railroads and familiarize
himself thoroughly with the track and current track mainte-
nance practices and equipment;
(b)  make a new schedule of track maintenance works according to
modern technology, including redimensioning of track gangs,
material inventory, mainteriance tool equipment and schedule
for the track rehabilitaticn works, including size of gangs,
tools and materials;
(c)  prepare specifications for the track maintenance equipment,
track materials, and tools to be ordered and submit above
specifications to CEA and the Bank for approval;
(d)  upon receipt of the approved specifications from CEA and the
Bank, prepare the necessary tender documents for international
competitive bidding, where applicable or for purchase through
sound business practices. The tender documents, tender procedures,
and the evaluation of tender would be done according to the
Bank's guidelines;



- 94 -
ANNEX 8
(e) after analyzing such tenders, have them approved by CEA
before sending them to the Bank for its consideration.
On CEA's and the Bank's approval, prepare and deliver to
CEA the appropriate purchase orders for their processing,
and preparation and mailing;
(f) prepare and submit to the CEA Director of Transportation and
to each mill manager a track rehabilitation and maintenance
schedule in conformity with the yearly track improvement require-
ments of the project;
(g) assist the CEA Director of Transportation in developing an
"on-the-job training" program for railroad track maintenance
personnel;
(h) prepare a track maintenance procedures and standards manual
for the 30" gauge mill. Later, similar manuals would be
prepared for the standard and meter gauge railroads; and
(i) reside in the Dominican Republic approximately 11 months per
year during the first two years of the five-year contract. Sub-
sequently, make at least two visits per year for a total of not less
than 30 days per year. All visits to CEA will be coordinated in
accordance with the CEA Director of Transportation. Quarterly
during the first two years and after each subsequent visit, the
consultant would submit to the CEA Director of Transportation and
the corresponding sugar estate manager a progress report with
recommendations for any action to be taken to help accomplish
the purpose of the project.
Requirements and Qualifications
4.        The consultant would be a graduate engineer or qualified by
adequate experience in railroad track maintenance, preferably, though
not required, in an industrial-type railroad. He may delegate his duties
to qualified resident representatives during the first two years, but he
would always be responsible for the commitment. The consultant or his resi-
dent representative, if he appoints one, must be able to communicate verbally
and read and write in Spanish.



- 95 -
ANNEX 8
B. Railway Operations
Purpose
5.        The purpose of this prograrm is to improve railway operating
practices and train schedules with the view of reducing operating costs
and fuel consumption. This CEA program would be partially financed by
the Bank.
Terms of Reference
6.        The consultant would:
(a)  visit all CEA mills that operate railroads and fa,miliarize
himself thoroughly with the operation of each rai.lroad and its
requirements, problems and limitations;
(b)  make a specific schedule of train operation for each mill,
taking into account the trains needed by the sugar factory
during the harvesting season, including personnel required
for all operations of loadi.ng and unloading trains, of running
the trains on the line, ancl of managing railway h,eadquarters;
(c)  assist the CEA Director of Transportation in developing an
"Ion-the-job training" program for railroad operating (traffic)
personnel;
(d)  prepare a railroad operating manual for each mill which clearly
defines standard practices and operating rules at each mill, includ-
ing preparation of periodic reports;
(e)  review any existing report forms and recommend to the CEA Director
of Transportation any changes or additions. These reports would
be coordinated with the accounting departments at the various
estates and would cover, among others:
(i)  derailments, causes and costs, including interruptions
in service;
(ii) volume hauled per day, week, etc. and per car;
(iii)  maximum and average ti.me elapsed between loading and
unloading of cane, with causes for any abnormal delays; and
(iv) fuel and lubricant consumption per day, ton and ton/km
hauled; and
(f) visit the eight mills two or three times a year during each grinding
season of the five-year con.tract for a total of not less than 60
days the first year, 45 days the second and 15 days each the third,



- 96 -
ANNEX 8
fourth and fifth years. The initial visit will be at least
30 days in duration to permit adequate time for familiarization with
the various ratlroad operations.
7.        All visits to CEA would be coordinated in advance with the CEA
Director of Transportation and a progress report would be submitted to
CEA and the Bank after each visit, with recommendations for any changes
or actions to be taken.
Requirements and Qualifications
8.        The consultant would be a graduate engineer or qualified by
adequate experience in industrial or short line railroad operations
and he should be able to communicate in Spanish.
C. Railroad Car Repairs and Maintenance
Purpose
9.        CEA would improve railroad car maintenance in order to increase
their availability and reduce costs. A central car maintenance shop would
be established to replace present minimal facilities at the six mills using
the 30" gauge railroad lines. The car repair facilities at Rio Haina and
Barahona, the two other mills that use standard and meter gauge railroads,
already have fairly effective car maintenance operations. Only general advice
and, possibly, training of CEA personnel would be required in Rio Haina and
Barahona.
10.       This CEA program would be partly financed by the Bank, and the
terms of reference include preparing technical specifications and tender
documents according to the Bank guidelines for cars and shop facilities
and equipment purchased under the loan.
Terms of Reference
11.       The consultant would:
(a) visit all CEA estates that operate railroads and familiarize
himself thoroughly with the existing railroad car fleet and
the present car maintenance procedures;
(b) make the engineering design for the new central workshop for
car maintenance, including guidelines of procedures, spare
parts inventory, team of personnel, schedule of maintenance
works, list of machinery to be used, and the like;
(c) assist the CEA Director of Transportation in the selection of
a suitable location for the shop and, once it is selected,
prepare its layout and coordinate shop requirements with the
assigned architect;



- '7 -
ANNEX 8
(d)  prepare a list of initial equipment and tools required in the
repair shop, taking into account any items that may be avail-
able at other CEA facilities;
(e) assist the CEA Director of Transportation in the selection of
personnel that will work in the repair shop, including the
shop superintendent (preferably a mechanical engíneer) and
assistant superintendent;
(f)  study the existing fleet of 30" guage railroad cars with a view
to standardizing their parts and components as much as possible
within economically sound limits (wheel diameter and design,
coupler types, and the like);
(g) prepare a maintenance proceclures and standards manual to cover
all the 30" guage raílroad car maintenance. This manual will
serve as the basis for similar manuals to cover the standard gauge
Rio Haína cars and the meter gauge cars at Barahona;
(h)  prepare technical specifications and tender documents for equipment
and material to be purchased, including the new rail cars, bogies
and spare parts covered under the loan. Specifications should cover
all areas that may affect operation and take into account as much as
possible inter-changeability with existing equipment and optimum
standardization of parts and components;
(i)  prepare the necessary tender documents for interna.tional bidding
where applicable or for purchase through sound business practices,
upon receipt of approved specifications from CEA and the Bank.
Eidding would be carried out according to the Bank.'s guidelines;
(j)  assist the CEA Director of Transportation in devel.oping an
"on-the-job training" program for railroad repair personnel
in line with the procedures prescribed in the maintenance
mnanuals;
(k)  assist the superintendent of the 30" guage railroad car repair
shop in the proper organizat ion of the shop and th.e training
of its personnel;
(1) recommend to the CEA Director of Transportation any modifcations
to existing rail cars, including engineering design, that are
economically advisable for Lower cost maintenance or improved
operating efficiency and coirparibility so that all. 30" guage railroad
cars would be fully interchangeable on all estates having 30" guage
raiIways. Special attention would be directed to equalizing coupler
heights and minimum curve radius limitations; and



- 98 -
ANNEX 8
(m) reside in the Dominican Republic for a period of approximately
eight months the year prior for and nine months the year after the
start of operation of the 30` guage railroad central car repair shop.
In each of the three years following, make two visits totalling at
least 30 days each year, to CEA railway car maintenance operations.
All visits to CEA would be coordinated with the CEA Director
of Transportation. Quarterly during the first two years and
after each subsequent visit, a progress report would be prepared
and submitted to CEA and the Bank, detailing observations and
recommendations for better achieving the purposes of the project.
Requirements and Qualifications
12.       The consultant would be a graduate engineer and/or qualified by
adequate experience in railroads car repair and maintenance; however, sugar
mill experience is not a requirement. He may delegate his duties to a
qualified resident representative during the first two years but he would
always be responsible for the commitment. The consultant or his resident
representative, if one is appointed, would be able to communicate verbally
and read and write in Spanish.
D. Locomotive Maintenance
Purpose
13.       CEA would improve locomotive maintenance at all eight sugar estates
that operate railways to haul their cane. The purpose of this program is to
increase availability of motive power (diesel-electric and diesel hydraulic
locomotives, in standard, meter and 30" gauge) and minimize maintenance and
fuel costs. This CEA program would be partly financed by the Bank, and the
terms of reference include the technical assistance for the locomotive
maintenance and the preparation of specifications for three diesel-electric
45-ton locomotives as well as their reception at the sugar estates.
Terms of Reference
14.       The consultant would:
(a) visit all CEA estates that operate railrcads and familiarize
himself thoroughly with all locomotives, their operating
limitations, estate service requirements and locomotive
maintenance facilities and their equipment;



- 99 -
ANNEX 8
(b) draw up a locomotive maintenance program in order to achieve
lower cost for the locomotive operation and obtain the approval
of the CEA Director of Transportation;
(c) implement his recommendations with specific written procedures
and practices to be used by the workshop personnel, conduct
training sessions at any or all of the estates that operate
railways;
(d)  make a list of spare parts :required and the workshop machinery
needed for locomotive maintenance works and prepare technical
specifications and bid documents for the purchase of spare parts and
materials as well as fuel and lubricants;
(e)  prepare technical specificatíons and tender documents for the three
diesel-electric 45-ton locomnotives according to Bank guidelines.
The specifications should take into account adaptability to the
required service and, as far as possible, interchangeability with
existing equipment on such :items as wheel brake equipment and the
like. Specifications would be submitted to CEA and the Bank for
approval;
(f) the bid evaluation would be done according to the Bank's guidelines;
(g)  assist the CEA Director of Transportation in devel.oping an "on-the-
job training" program for locomotive maintenance personnel. Also
.assist in training locomotive engineers in the best locomotive
operating practices from a mechanical and electric.al point of
view;
(h) assist and advise on the proper organization of works at the
locomotive maintenance shops;
(i) propose to the CEA Director of Transportation any modifications
to existing locomotives which are deemed economica.lly advisable;
and
(j) visit the eight mills with railroads at least two times a year
during the five years of the contract for a total of not less
than 120 days the first year, 60 days the second and 30 days
each the third, fourth and fifth years. The initial visit will
be at least 60 days in duration to give sufficient time for becoming
t.horoughly familiar with the equipment and facilities. All visits
to CEA would be coordinated in advance with the CEA Director of
Transportation and a progress report would be submitted to CEA and
t.he Bank after each visit, with recommendations for any changes or
actions to be taken.



- 100 -
ANNEX 8
Reguirements and Qualifications
15.       The consultant would be a graduate engineer and/or qualified by
adequate experience in locomotive maintenance, preferably, though not
required, in industrial diesel-electric and diesel-hydraulic converter
types, in the range of 285 to 600 hp (shunters). He should be able to
communicate in Spanish.
E. Estimated Cost of Railroad Consultants
16.       The total estimated baseline cost for the railway consultants would
be US$486,000, of which US$390,000, or about 80%, would be foreign exchange.
The average cost per man-month of consultants, including all local counterpart
support, firm overhead, social charges and fees, would be about US$8,100.
April 2, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Number of Outgrowers and Size of Cane Area on Project Estates
Small                   Medium                   Large
1/       ----(1 - 40 ha)      --   -(41 - 80 ha) ----    -----(81  ha) ------   -----Total------
Project Mills-         No.    %    Area    %   No.    %   Area   %   No.   %    Area   %   No.    Area    %
Barahona-/              -      -     -            -                       -            -          -        -      -
Rio Haina               609   75    7,404  23   116   14   7,769 24    92  11   17,194 53   817   32,367  100
Ozama                  686   88    8,546  52    54    7   2,402 15    37   5    5,576 33   777   16,524  100
Boca Chica             685   91    4,371  42    33    5   1,552 15    31   4    4,527 43   749   10,450  100
Consuelo               521   87    4,493  37    44    7   2,394 20    38   6    5,174 43   603   12,061  100
Quisquéya              131   80    1,672  27    16   10         650 10    17  10    3,884 63   164    6,206  100
Total                2,632   85   26,486  34   263    8  14,767 19   215   7   36,355 47 3,110   77,608  100
Average Farm Size              10 ha                      56 ha                    169 ha
1/ Area for Rio Haina and Quisqueya has been obtained directly. Area for Ozama, Boca Chica and Consuelo has
been estimated from 1977-78 crop production on an average yield of 46.2 m ton/ha for Ozama and Boca Chica,
and 42.9 m ton/ha for Rio Haina, Consuelo and Quisqueya.
2/ Administration cane only.
Source:  Federacion Dominican de Colonos Azucareros (FEDOCA)
December 7, 1978






112  11                            :Íl'
2-,-                                                                      12,  1                                       12  1.
',o
7,---    Is.,-                             21,1,   Pl -1, 19-'  11-2 -1 l            717. -',    79-,-           "2,5"            .......                                                                    .......
¿l                                                                                        11   21        11:1                           11 12l
41                                                                                                                                      ......
11 il4                      11,---                                                         l,511                                                                                                                ---144
.4 ll,                  :7.-
4,111
1,112
65
1   2,---
4 1------a .. 1
4
211
21,1  %        1,4
4                              n,-                                          ajI,   1.1-                                       1,1   l, 22
......                                           1.14                    31              135,21
7 4                          21
1,21`1 :211
11 1, -1       11,21                                                                                                                                                                                 41             111.911
1,--- ,112                  ...... in                                        53",8            0,052        139,,6        153,141             3,1112                                 4,--- ,111                      5,11,11
11 111        37:111                                                                                                                   M               l."
12....                         12
14                          1 4: 1. 1       21                                                                                                                      2,
2,                          21:              "l                                                                           "7:",
n   1 2                     11,142           11,141                      1 1 :,l, 4 2    11,31                       1,14'                                                         11,141
1,1---                             u,m                         11
:Z
z,       2            2 ,             14,111       - ,l,                           44,---       .2    2        16,,,i           ll, 3JI           'j          ',9,1         .1,118          616,41.    1,W3,7U
'22,






- .03 -
ANNEX 9
Table 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Baseline Costs for Consultants and Related Servlces
Expatriate Consultants                     Local Consultants
F.E. Cost                              Local Cost
Total     Man-          per Man-        Total      Man-         per Man-
Cost     Months           Month         Cost      Months          Month
(Us$ '000)  (No.>        (US$ '000)    (US$ '000)  (No.)         (Us$ '000)
Sugar Factory
Engineering Services - 7.5 % of
Ozama Mill Rehabilítation               830.0    115.0            7.2
Transportation
Traffic Control )
Track Maintenance  )                      405.0      50.0            8.1             -         -
Car Maintenance )
Locomotive Maintenance                     81.0      10.0            8.11
Sub-total:      486.0      60.0           8.1              -         -             -
Barahona Irrigation and Drainage
Studies                                 1,260.0    121.5           10.4            905.4    476.5            1.9
Research Area                             414.6      42.0            9.9           142.4      75.0           1.9
Sub-total:   1,674.6    163,.5           10.2         1,047.8    551.5             1.9
Agriculture
Mechanization                               -         -              -              50.0      50.0           1.0
Area Reduction                          1,650.0    187.5            8.8            650.0    600.0            1.1
Cane Sucrose Content                       10.0       1.5            6.7            20.0      10.0           2.0
Sub-total:   1,660.0    189.0             8.8            720.0    660.0            1.1
Management
EDP System Engineering                    200.0      33.5            6.0           100.0      33.0           3.0
Management Assistance                     500.0      89.0            5.6           350.0    117.0            3.0
Suh-total:      7no.n    122.5            5.7            450.0    150.0            3.°
Total:        5,350.6    650.0            8.2         2,217.8  1,361.5             1.6
August 10, 1979



DOMINICAN REP LIBLIC
SUGAR RERABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of CEA
Part A:  Income Statement
(us$s0o0)
1976       1977        1978        1979       1980         1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1986        1987        18e         les*
.    _   _    _   _ - - - - - - - -  _    _  - - -   - - - -                                        - -    - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - -_ _ , _
A. OPERATING REVENUE
_0_4_
SUGA R
DOMESTIC                               42150.0    31799.0    18384.0    28046 0    2815667    29564.5   31042.8    32594.9    34224.6    35935.9    37732.7    39619.3    41600.3    43880.3
EXPORT                                ¡65091.0   124552.0    72006.0   105000.0   152280.1   ¶65148.8  205899.8   245221.0   288116.8   288116.8   288116.8   220198.4   220198.4   220198.4
MOLASSES
DOMESIIC                                2854.0      2154.0      1245.0     3567.0      3103.6      3258.8    3421 7       3592.8      3772.4      3961.1      4159.1      4367.1      4585.4     4814.7
EXPORT                                  S050.0      3811.0      2203.0     4763.0      5289.4      6050.8    8164-2       86572.4     9001. 1     9451.1      9923.7    104I 9.9    *0940.9    11487.9
QTHER OPERATING REVENUE                 4390.0      3313.0      191S.0     4852.0      4852.0      4852.0    4852.0       4852.0      4852.0      4852.0      4852.0     4852.0      4852.0      4852.0
(INCLUDING INTEREST1
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE               219535.0   165629.0    95753.0   146228.0   193681.8   208875.0  253380.5   294833.1   339966.9   342316.8   344784.2   279456.7   282177.0   285033.3
8. PRODICTION COSTS
CANE                                  102498.0   103172.0    72855 0   124472.0   121265.0   121265.0  121265.0   121265.0   121265.0   121265.0   121265.0   121265.0   121265.0   121265,0
TRANSPORT                              15228.0    10269 0      4319.0    13252.0    12992.3    13057.0   13122.0    13187.2    13252.9    13318.8    13385.1    13451.7    13518.6    13585.9
MANUFACTURING                          13210.0      9630.0      4046.0    11674.0    11476.8    11533.9   11591.3    11649.0    11707.0    11765.2    11823.8    11882.6    11941.7    12001.2
MAINTENANCE                            10126.0      6165.0      3057.0     8361.0      8293.3      8368.0    8*43 4       8519.4      8596.2      8673.6      8751.7     8830.6      8910.1      8990.4              o
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS                141064.0   129236.0    84277.0   157759.0   154027.4   154223.9  154421.6   154620.7   154821.0   155022.6   155225.6   155429.9   155635.5   155842.4
C. INDIRECT COSTS
AOMIN. ANO GENERAL                     24802.0    25801 0    22322.0    15625.0        8229.1      8064.5    7903.2       7745.1     7590.2      7438.4      7289.7      7143.9      7001.0      6861,0
PLANT AND RAILROCA  OEPRECIATIOlN       7363.0      8205.0      7384.0     7014.0      7500.0      8560.0    9750.0       9960.0    10100.0    10750.0    11400.0    11950.0    12650.0    13400.0
DTHER INDIRECT COSTS                    1557.0      1812.0      1047.0      1685.0     1698.5      1712.1    1725.8       1739.6      1753.5      1767.5     1781.7      1795.9      1810.3      1824.8
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS                   33722.0    35818.0    30753.0    24324.0    17427.5    18336.5   19379.0    19434.7    19443.7    19955.9    20471.3    20889.8    21461 3    22085.7
NET OPERATING INCOME                   44749.0       575.0   -19277.0   -35855.0    22226.8    36314.5   79579.9   120777.8   165702.2   167338.3   169087.3   103137.0   105080.2   107105.2
OTHER COSTS
INTEREST                                                                               9493.7    12219.0   14075.0    14390.0    14155.0    12006.0          9787.0      7567.0      5348.0      3129.0
INCOME 8EFORE TAXES                    44749.0       575.0   -19277.0   -35855.0    12733.1    24095.5   65504.9   106387.8   151547.2   155332.3   159300.3    95570.0    99732.2   103976.2                D P t
EXPORT 1AX                             41899.0    26787.0       4200.0      4112.0    18273.6    19817.9   21319.3    4234B.4    60451.5    60451.5    60451.5    25333.9    25333.9    25333.9                 a
INCOME TAX                                                                                          1711.0   17674.3    25615.8    36438.3    37952 3    39539.5    28094.4    29759.3    31456.9               4
NET INCOME                              3850.0   -26212.0   -23477.0   -39967.0    -5540.5         2566.6   26511.4    38423.6    54657.4    56928.5    59309.3    42141 7    44639.0    47185.3
OPERATING RATIO                            79.6       99.7       120.1       124.5        88.5        82.6      68.6        59.0        51.3        51.1        61.0       63.1        62.8        62.4
UNIT COST/MT       ,                      195.8      215.6       235.4       218.0       206.3       206.1     206.1       204.9       203.5       202.7      201.8       200.7       199.7       198.7
August 14, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of CEA
Part A: Sources and Apolication of Funds
(US$'000)
1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       1988       1989
_          - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - _-_-__ _ _-__ _ -_ _
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL FUNDS GENERATION
NET INCOME BEF INTEREST                 22226.8    36314.5    79579.9   120777-8   165702.2   167338.3   169087.3   103137.0  105080.2   107105.2
DEPRECIATION                             7500.0     8560 0      9750 0     9950.0    10100.0    10750.0    11400.0    11950.0  12650.0    13400.0
INTERNAL FIJNOS                         29726 8    44874.5    89329.9   130727.8   175802.2   178088.3   180487.3   115087.0  117730.2   120505.2
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
GOVERNMENT EQUITY                        7500.0     7500.0
LOANS RAISED
IBRD                                     4500.0    10800.0    16900.0      1400.0      1400.0
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING                   78000.0    11000.0      1000.0
TOTAL LOAN RAISED                       82500.0    21800.0    17900.0      1400.0      1400.0
TOTAL SOURCES                          119726.8    74174.5   107229.9   132127.8   177202.2   178088.3   180487.3   115087.0 117730.2   120505.2
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                      34488.0    28028.0    18656.0    17665.0    17432.0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0  15000.0    15000.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     3512.0      1350.0     1998.0                                                                                           °
SHORT TERM DEBT CONVERSION              55000.0
DEBT CHARGES
AMORTIZATION
IBRD LOAN                                                                             2692.0      2692.0     2692.0      2692.0   2692.0      2692.0
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING                                                                 15000.0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0  15000.0    15000.0
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                                                                    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0  17692.0    17692.0
INTEREST
IBRD LOAN                                 225.0      990.0      2375.0     3290.0     3430.0      3231.0     2962.0      2692.0   2423.0      2154.0
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING                    5100.0    10900.0    11700.0    11100.0    10725.0       8775.0      6825.0     4875.0   2925.0       975.0
INTEREST ON SHORT TERM DEBT              4168.7      329.0
TOTAL INTEREST                           9493.7    12219.0    14075.0    14390.0    14155.0    12006.0       9787.0      7567.0   5348.0      3129.0
EXPORT TAX                              18273.6    19817.9    21319.3    42348.4    60451.5   60451.5    60451.5    25333.9  25333.9    25333.9
TAX PAYMENT                                                     1711.0    17674.3    25615.8    36438.3    37952.3    39539.5  28094.4    29759.3
INCREASES IN WORKINC CAPITAL                                                                                                                             060'
NONCASH WORKING CAPITAL                 57072.5      2207.1    14857.3    17501.3    19830.3      1444.7      1586.4   -27247.9   1881.1      2034.7    15 1 C
CASH INCREASE                           -3113.0      4552.5    28613.4    16548.8    16025.7    29055.8    34454.2    37202.5  24380.8    27556.2
TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL                   53959.5     6759.6    43470.6    34050.1    35856.0    30500.5    36040.6        9954.6  26261.9    29590.9
OTHER PAVMENTS/INCREASE IN ASSETS                   6000.0      6000.0     6000.0      6000.0     6000.0      3564.0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS             119726.8    74174.5   107229.9   132127.8   177202.2   178088.3   180487.3   115087.0 117730.2   120505.2
YEAR END CASH BALANCE                    2000.0    6552.5    35165.9    51714.7    67740.4    96796.2   131250.4   168452.9 192833.7   220389.9
August 14, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of (EA
Part A: Balance Sheet
(uS$ '000)
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        198?       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986        1987        1988        1989
  _   _   _  _                                                                                                        _   _  _   _   _   _   _    _  - - - - - - - -
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                            4049.0      6150.0     2113.0      5113.0     2000.0      6552.5    35165.9  51714.7    67740.4    96796.2   131250.4   168452.9   192833.7   220389.9
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE            13203.0      9071.0     7321.0    50137.0    47207-5    51005.7    62132.1  72495.3    83778.7    84366.2    84983.1    68651.2    69331.2    70045.3
SUGAR ANO MOLASSES STOCKS      99325.0    51582.0    49377.0    55453.0    42000.0    34500.0    37700.0  44200.0    52000.0    52000.0    52000.0    40000.0    40000.0    40000.0
WORKING CAPITAL
AOMINISTRATION CANE            36210.0    33244.0    26595.0    52727.0    53148.8    53574.0    54002.6  54434.6    54870.1    55309.1    55751.5    56197.5    56647.1    57100.3
DEVELOPMENT LOANS               9816.0    16465.0    13172.0    23140.0    24297.0    25511.9    26787.4  28126.8    29533.2    31009.8    32560.3    34188.3    35897.7    37692.6
DEAD SEASON EXPENSES            7676.0      7655.0     7641.0      7831.0     7361.1      6919.5      6504.3   6114.0      5747.2      5402.4      5078.2     4773.5      4487.1      4217.9
WORK OROERS                      382.0       420.0      330.0       401.0      401.0       401.0       401.0    401.0       401.0       401.0       401.o      401.0       401.0       401.0
DRAFT ANIMALS                   8924.0      8549.0     8321.0      8114.0     8114.0      8114.0      8114.0   8114.0      8114.0      8114.0      8114.0     8114.0      8114.0      8114.0
MATERIAL INVENTORY             39389.0    39672.0    41100.0    39471.0    38681.6    37907.9    37149.8  36406.8    35678.7    34965.1    34265.8    33580.5    32908.9    32250.7
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS          218974.0   172808.0   155970.0   242387.0   223211.0   224486.5   267957.2 302007.3   337863.3   368363.8   404404.3   414358.9   440620.8   470211.7
FIXEO ASSETS
LANO                           30111.0    30092.0    30007.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0  29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0
PERMANENT PASTURES              2443.0      2439.0     2431.0      2428.0     2428.0      2428.0      2428.0   2428.0      2428.0      2428.0     2428.0      2428.0      2428.0      2428.0
PLANT AND EOUIPMENT           192225.0   203471.0   205833.0   207301.0   241789.0   269817.0   288473.0 306138.0   323570.0   338570.0   353570.0   368570.0   383570.0   398570.0
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION      110623.0   118828.0   126212.0   133226.0   140726.0   149286.0   159036.0 168986.0   179086.0   189836.0   201236.0   213186.0   225836.0   239236.0
NET FIXEO ASSETS               81602.0    84643.0    79621.0    74075.0   101063.0   120531.0   129437.0 137152.0   144484.0   148734.0   152334.0   155384.0   157734.0   159334.0
WORK IN PROGRESS               16804.0      8257.0     6606.0      2530.0     2530.0      2530.0      2530.0   2530.0      2530.0      2530.0     2530.0      2530.0      2530.0      2530.0
DEPRECIATEO EOUIPMENT            440.0      621.0       770.0       997.0      997.0       997.0       997.0    997.0       997.0       997.0      997.0       997.0       997.0       997.0
OTHERS                          1720 0       970.0        -        1314.0     4826.0      6176.0      8174.0   8174.0      8174.0      8174 0     8174.0      8174.0      8174.0      8174.0
TOTAL FIXEO ASSETS           133120.0   127022.0   119435.0   110461.0   140961.0   161779.0   172683.0 180398.0   187730.0   191980.0   195580.0   198630.0   200980.0   202580.0                     0
CN
INVESTMENT                       200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0    200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0
DEFERRED CHARGES                 896.0      856.0      1056.0       867.0      867.0       867.0       867.0    867.0       867.0      867.0       867.0       867.0       867.0      867.0
OTHERS
TOTAL ASSETS                  353190 0   300886.0   276661.0   353915.0   365239.0   387332.5   441707.2 483472.3   526660.3   561410.8   601051.3   614055.9   642667.8   673858.7
LIA8ILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCRUED TAXES                  32774.0    25252.0    29364.0        -           -         1711.0    17674.3  25615.8    36438.3    37952.3    39539.5    28094.4    29759.3    31456.9
ACCOUNTS PAVABLE              29954.0    15296.0    12237.0    30389.0    15764.4    15764.4    15764.4  15764.4    15764.4    15764.4    15764.4    15764.4    15764.4    15764.4
SHORT TERM OEBT                 8037.0    11149.0    11060.0    63995.0       5484.1         -
CURRENT DUES-LNG TRM D8T           _-                      -          -           -                       -   17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0            -
CURRENT OUES-DEFERRED TAX          -                            -                 -       6000.0      6000.0   6000.0      6000.0     6000.0      3564.0         -
BONUSES                         2013,0         -           -       3000.0     3000.0      3000.0      3000.0   300.        30000     3000.0       3000.0      3000.0      3000.0     3000.0
OTHER LIABILITIES                  -           _           _      16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0  16422.0    16422 0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES    72775.0    51597.0    52661.0   113806.0    40670.5    42897.5    58860.7  84494.2    95316.7    96830.8    95982.0    80972.9    82637.8    66643.3
LONG TERM DEBl                 10540.0     5829.0      4117.0     5948.0    85448.0   110248.0   128148.0 111856.0    95564.0    77872.0    60180.0    42488.0    24796.0    24796.0
DEFERRED TAXES                     -           -                  33564.0    33564.0    27564.0    21564.0  15564.0        9564.0     3564.0         -           -
CAPITAL                       140000.0   140000.0   140C0. 0   140000.0   147500.0   155000.0   155000.0 155000.0   155000.0   155000.0   155000.0   155000.0   155000.0   15500<.>0    5 h;i
RETAINFD EARNINGS             129572.0   103360.0    79883.0    60597.0    55056.5    57623.0    84134.4 122558.1   177215.5   234144.0   293453 3   335595.0   380234.0   427419.3               ¡s t
TOTAL LIABILITIES            353190 0   300886.0   276661.0   353915.0   365239.0   387332.5   441707.2 483472.3   526660.3   561410 8   601051.3   614055.9   642667.8   673858.7
CURRENT RATIO                      1.6         1.3        1.1         1.0        2. 2        2.1         2.3      2.0         2.1        2.4         2.8         3.4         3.7        5.0
August 14, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILlTATION PROJECT
Financial Anal.ysis of CEA
Part B: Income Statement Based on the Sensitivity Tests
(USS '000)
1976        1677        1978        ig979       1980         .9.        1982         1983        1984        1985         1986        1987         1988        1989
A. OPERATING REVENUE
SUGAR
DOMESTIC                              42150.0    31799.0    19394.0    29046.0    28156.7    29001.4   29871.4    30767.6    31690.6    32641.3    33620.6    34629.2    35668-1    36738.1
EXPOR1T                              165091.0   124552.0    72006.0   105000. 0   150135.3   164433.9   188741.5   188741.5   188741.5   188741.5   188741.5   188741.5   188741.5    188741.5
MOLASSE 5
DOMESTIC                               2854.0      2154.0       1245.0      3567.0      3103.6      3196.7      3292.6      3391.4      3493.1       3597.9      3705.8       3817.0      3931.5       4049.5
EXPORT                                 5050.0      3911.0      2203.0       4763.0      5289.4      6050.8    8164.2        8572.4      9001.1       9451.1      9923.7    10419.9       10940.9      11487-9
OTHER OPERATING REVENUE                4390.0      3313.0       1915.0      4852.0      4852.0      4852.0    4852.0        4852.0      4852.0       4852.0      4852.0       4852.0      4852.0       4852.0
(INCLUDING INTEREST)
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE              219535.0   165629.0    95753.0   146228.0   191537.0   207534.8  234921.8   236324.9   237778.3   239283.9   240843.6   242459.6   244134,0   245869.0
8. PRODUCTION COSTS
CANE                                 102498.0   103172.0    72855.0   124472.0   121871.3   122490.7  123093.1   123708.6   124327.1   124948.7   125573.5   126201.3   126832.3   127466.5
TRANSPORT                             15228.0    10259.0       4319.0    12928.0    12992.3    13057.0   13122.0    13187.2    13252.9    13318.8    13385.1    13451.7    13518.6    13585.9
MANUFACTURING                         13210.0      9630.0       4046.0    11674.0    11476.8    11533.9   11591.3    11649.0    11707.0    11765.2              11823.8    11882.6       11941.7    12001 .2
MAINTENANCE                           1Q128.0      6165.0      3057.0       8361.0      8293.3      9368.0    8443.4        8519.4      8596.2       8673.6      8751.7       8830.6      8910.1       8990.4
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS               141064.0   129236.0    84277.0   157435.0   154633.8   155439.6  156249.7   157064.2   157883.1   158706.4   159534.1   160366.2   161202.8   162043.9
C. INDIRECT COSTS
ADMIN. ANO GENERAL                    24802.0    25801.0    22322.0    15625.0          8481.0      8565.8    8651.4        8738.0      8825.3       8913.6      9002.7       9092.7      9183.7       9275.5
PLANT ANO RAILROAO DEPRIECIATION    7363.0         8205.0       7384.0      7014.0      7575.0      8645.6    9847.5    10049.5    10201.0    10857.5           1 1 514.10    12069.5    12776.5      13534.0
QTHER INDIRECT COSTS                   1557.0      1812.0       1047.0      1695.0      1701.8       1718.9    1736.1       1753.4       1771.0      1768.7       1906.5      I1824.6      1842.9      1881.3
TOTAL INOIRECT CasTs                  33722.0    35818.0    30753.0    24324.0    17757.8    18930.2   2.0235.0    20540.9    20797.3    21559.7    22323.3    22986.9    23803.0    24670.8
NET OPERATING INCOME                  44749.0       575.0   -19277.0   -35531.0    19145.4    33165.0    58437.1    58719.8    59097.9    59017.8    58986.3    59106.5    69129.1    59154.3
OTHER COSTS
INTEREST                                                                                M189.7    12878.0    14317.9    14440.0    14155.0    12006.0             9787.0      7567.0       5348.0      3129.0
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                   44749.0       575.0   -19277.0   -35855.0         7955.7    20286.9    44119.1    44 279. 8    44942.5    47011.8    49199.3    51539.5    53780.1    56025.3
EXPORT TAX                            41899.0    26787.0       4200.0       4112.0     18016.2    19732.1    16501.7    16501.7         16501.7    16501.7       16501.7     16501.7      16501.7     16501.7
INCOM4E TAX                                                                                           222.0    11047.0     11111.3      11376.5    12204.0    13079.0    14015.1          14911.4     15809.4   055c
NET ENCOBE                  ~~~~~~~~3850.0   -26212.0   -23477.0   -39967.0   -10060.5      332.9    16570.5    16666.9       17064.9    18306.1       19616.6    21022.7    22367.1    237W4.          4E-(
OPERATING RATIO                          79.6         99.7       120.1       124.3        90.0         84.0        75.1        75.2        75.1         75.3        75.5         75.6        75.8         75.9       4 
UNIT COST/MT                            195.8       215.6        235.4       218.0       207.4        208.9      210.5        210.9       211.2       212.1        213.0       213.7        2145         215.4
August 1.4, 1Q79



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PDDJECT
Financial Analysis of CEA
Past B: Sources and Application of Funds Based on the Sensitivitv Tests
(US$ '000)
1980       1981        1982       1983        1984        1985       1986        1987        1988        1989
SOUPCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL FUNOS GENERATION
NET INCOME BEF INTEREST                  19145.4    33165.0    58437.1    58719.8    59097.9    59017.8    58986.3    59106.5   59128.1    59154-3
DEPRECIATION                              7575.0      8645.6     9847.5    10049.5    10201.0    10857.5    11514.0    12069.5    12776.5    13534.0
INTERNAL FUNDS                           26720.4    41810.6    68284.6    68769.3    69298.9    69875.3    70500.3    71176.0   71904.6    72688.3
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
GOVERNMENT EQUITV                         7500.0      7500.0
LOANS RAISED
IBRO                                      4500.0    10800.0    16900.0       1400-0      1400.0
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING                    78000.0    11000.0       1000.0
TOTAL LOAN RAISEO                        82500.0    21800.0    17900.0       1400.0      1400.0
TOTAL SOURCES                           116720.4    71110.6    86184.6    70169.3    70698.9    69875.3    70500.3    71176.0    71904.6    72688.3
APPLICATIONS OF FUNOS
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                       34488.0    28028.0      3656.0      2765.0      2132.0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0    l5000.0               0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      3512.0      1350.0      1998.0                                                                                             w
SHORT TERM OEBT CONVERSION               55O0.O
OEBT CHARGES
AMORTIZATION
18RO LOAN                                                                               2692.0      2692.0      2692.0      2692.0    2692.0       2692.0
OEVELOPMENT FINANCING                                                                   15000.0    15000. 0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0    15000.0
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                                                                      17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17692.0   17692 0    17692.0
INTEREST
IBRD LOAN                                  225.0       990.0     2375.0      3290.0     3430.0      3231.0      2962.0      2692.0    2423.0       2154.0
OEVELOPMENT FINANCING                     5100.0    10900.0    11700.0    11150.0    10725.0        8775.0      6825.0      4875.0    2925.0        975.0
INTEREST ON SHORT TERM OE8T               5864.7      988.0       242.9
TOTAL INTEREST                           11189.7    12878.0    14317.9    14440.0    14155.0    12006.0         9787.0      7567.0     5348.0      3129.0
EXPORT TAX                               18016.2    19732.1    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7    16501.7
TAX PAYMENT                                                       222.0    11047.0    11111.3    11376.5    12204.0    13079.0    14015.1    14911.4
INCREASES IN WORKING CAPITAL
NONCASH WOPKING CAPITAL                  52627.5      3122.5    13534.5      7408.9      8829 .     1152.8      1278.2   -10593.6       1537.5     1672.0
CASH INCREASE                            -3113.0                29954.5    12006.7    -5722.8    -9853.7    -5526.7    11929.9          1810.3     3782.2    I PX z
TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL                    49514 5      3122.5    43489.0    19415.7       3107.0    -8700.9    -4248.4       1336.3     3347.8      5454.2   tb1D I9
OTHER PAYMENTS/INCREASE IN ASSETS                     6000.0     6000.0      6000.0      6000 0     6000.0      3564.0                                         JL 'o
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS              116720.4    71110.6    86184.6    70169.3    70698.9    69875.3    70500.3    71176.0    71904.6    72688.3
YEAR END CASH BALANCE                     2000.0      2000.0    31954.5    43961.2    38238.4    28384.7    22858.1    34788.0    36598.2    40380.5
August 14, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financfal Analysis of CEA
Part B: Balance Sheet Based on the Sensitivity Tests
(US$S000)
tg7C       1977       1978        4979       1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1985        1986       1987        1988       1989
CURRENT ASSET1'
CAU44                            4049.0      6150.0     2113.0     5113.0      2000.0     2000.0    31954.5    43961.2    38238.4    28384.7    22858.1    34788.0    36598.2    40380.5
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              13203.0    9071.0      7321.0    50137.0    46671.3    50670.7    57517.4    57868.2    58231.6    58608.0    58997.9   59401.9    59820.5   60254.2
SUGAR AND MOLASSES STOCKS       99325.0    51582.0    49377.0   55453.0    42000.0    34500.0    37700.0   44200.0    52000 0    52000.0    52000.0   40000.0    40000.0    40000.0
WORKING CAPITAL                                                                          5540       502     43.             47.         50.        55.         69.t       64.         70.
ADMINISTRATION CANE             36210.0    33244.0    26595.0    52727.0    53148.8   53574.0    54002.8    54434.6    54870.1    55309.1    55751.5    56197.5    56647.1    57100.3
DEVELOPMENT LOANS                9816.0    16465.0    13172.0   23140.0    24297.0    25511.9    26787.4    28126.8    29533.2    31009.8    32560.3    34188.3   35897.7    37692.6
DEAD SEASDN EXPENSES             7676.0    7655.0       7641.0     7831.0      7361.1     6919.5     6504.3      6114.0     5747.2      5402.4     5078.2      4773.5     4487.1      4217.9
WORK OROERS                       382.0       420.0      330.0      401.0       401.0      401.0       401.0      401.0      401.0       401.0      401.0       401.0      401.0       401.0
DRAFT ANIMALS                    8924.0      8549.0     8321.0     8114.0      8114.0     8114.0      8114.0     8114.0     8114.0      8114.0     8114.0      8114.0     8114.0      8114.0
MATERIAL INVENTORY              39389.0    39672.0    41100.0   39471.0    38681.6    37907.9    37149.8   36406.8    35678.7    34965.1    34265.8    33580.5    32908.9    32250.7
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           218974.0   172808.0   155970.0  242387.0   222674.8   219599.0  260131.1  279626.7  282814.1   274194.0   270026.8  271444.7   274874.8  280411.2
PIXEO ASSETS
LAND                            30111.0   30092.0   30007.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    291<7.0   29817.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0    29117.0
PERMANENT PASTURES               2443.0      2439.0     2431.0     2428.0      2428.0     2428.0      2428.0    2428.0      2428.0    2428.0       2428.0      2428.0     2428.0      2428.0
PLANT AND EOUIPMENT             <92225.0  203471.0  205833.0  207301.0   241789.0   269817.0  273473.0  276238.0  278370.0   293370.0  308370.0  323370.0   338370.0   353370.0
ACCUIMULATED DEPRECIATION       110623.0   118828.0   126212.0  133225.0   14o0o8   0   149446.0   159294.1  169343.6   179S44.6   190402.1   201916.1  213985.6   226762.1   240296.1
NET FIXEO ASSETS                81602.0   84643.0   79621.0   74075.0   100988.0   120370.4   114178.9  10,894.4    96025.4   102967.9  if4Asq.Q    09384.4   111507.9   113073.9
ORX IN PROGRESS                 16804.0     8257.0     6806.0      2530.0     2530.0     2530.0      2530.0    2530.0      2530.0      2530.0     2530.0      2530.0     2530.0      2530.0
DEPRECIATED EOUIPMENT             440.0       621.0      770.0       997.0      997.0      997.0       997.0      997.0      997.0       997.0      997.0       997.0      997.0       997.0
DTHERS                            1720.0      970.0                 1314.0     4826.0     6176.0      8174.0    8174.0      8174.0     8174.0      9174.0     8174.0      8174.0      8174.0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS             133120.0   127022.0   119435.0   110461.0   140886.0   161618.4   157424.9  150140.4   142071.4   146213.9   149699.9   152630.4   154853.9   156319.9                0-.
INVESTMENT                        200.0       200.0      200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0      200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0       200.0
DEFERREO CHARGES                   896.0      856.0     1056.0       867.0      867.0      867.0       867.0      867.0      867.0       867.0      867.0       867.0      867.0       867.0
OTHERS
TOTAL ASSETS                   353190.0   300886.0  276661.0   353915.0   364627.8   382284.4   418623.0  430834.1  425952.5   421474.9   420793.7   425142.1   430795.5   437798.1
LIA8ILITIES
CURRENT LIAB!LITIES
ACCRUEO TAXES                    32774.0   25252.0    29364.0                               222 0    11047.0   11111.3    11376.5    12204.0    13079.0    14015.1    14911.4    15809.4
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                 29954.0    15296.0    12237.0    30389.o    15843.3    15922.5    18002. 1   16082. 1    16162.5    16243.3    16324.6 ó     64064.2    1488.2    18570.9
SHORT TERM DECT                   8037.0    11149.0    11060.0   63995.0       9314.0      3036.5
CURRENT OUES-LNG TRM O6T                                                                                        17692.0    17692.0    17692.0    17992.0    17692.0    17992.0
CURRENT DUES-DEFERREO TAX                                                                 6000.0      6000.0    6000.0      6000.0     6000.0      3564.0
BONUSES                           2013.0                            3000.0     3000.0      3000.0     3000.0    3000.0      3000.0     3000.0      3000.0      3000.0     3000.0     3000.0
OTHER LIARILITIES                                                  16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0   16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0    16422.0
TOTAL CUIRRENT LIABILITIES      72778.0    51697.0    52661.0   113806.0    44579.3    44603.0    52471.1   70307.4    70653.0    74561.4    70081.6    67535.3    68513.8    51802.1
DEFERREO TAXES                                                     33564.0    33564.0    27564.0    21564.0   15564.0       9564.0     3564.O
LONG TERM DEST                   10840.0     5829.0     4117.0     5948.0    88448.0   110248.0   128148.0  111856.0    95564.0    77872.0    60180.0    42488.0    24796.0    24796.0 C         ,- 
CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                        ID 2
CAPITAL                         140000.0   140000.0   140000.0   140000.0   147500.0   155000 0   155000.0  155000-0   1550000   15500000   155000 0          5150000   1550000 O   15  O        O
RETAINE1O EARNINGS             129572.0   103360.0    79883.0   60597.0    50536.5    50869.4    67439.9   84106.8   101171.5   119477.6   139096.1   160118.8   182485.9   206200.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES              353190.0   300886.0   276661.0   353915.0   364627.8   382284.4   418623.0  430834.1   425952.5   421474.9   420793.7   425142.1   430795.5   437798.1
CURRENT PATIO                        1.6        1.3        1.1         0.0        2.0        2.0         2.4       2.1         2.1         1.9        1.9        2.0         2.0        2.7
August 14, 1979



- 110 -
ANNEX 9
Table 4
Page 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Analysís of CEA
Notes to the Financial Statements
These fianncial statements are based on the assumptions stated in
Chapter VI, CEA Financíal Background and Projections, only those items on the
financial statements which are not specifically mentioned in that Chapter are
included in these notes.
Income Statement
1.        The volume of sugar exported is held constant (714,000 m ton) in line
with ISA quotas; there is no expansion of sugar exports under the project.
The volume of sugar for the domestic market (117,000 miliíon in 1979) increases
by 5% per annum in line wíth local demand forecast.
2.        The unit price of exported sugar is that forecast by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division (para 5.06 of main text); the
unit price of sugar sold on the domestic market is the Government regulated
price of US$0.24/kg received by CEA from INESPRE.
3.        Other operating revenue includes interest collected from outgrowers
for production loans given by CEA and sales of deteriorated equipment and property.
Sources and Application of Funds
1.        Government equity of US$15 million is the counterpart contributíon
for the Bank/CEA project.
2.        Development financing is the approximately US$20 militon that is co-
financed by commercial banks under Bank/CEA project.
3.        Tax payment is basically corporate income tax and includes any excise
or sales taxes which CEA pays.
Balance Sheet
1.        Accounts receivable increase appreciably in 1980 largely due to errors
and omissions in the data for the previous years; this is not a structural
change. The assumption used for forecast was that accounts receivable would
be paid after three months.



- 111 -
ANNEX 9
Table 4
Page 8
2.        Sugar and molasses stocks are in line with ISA sugar stocking
requirements, about 125,000 m ton for CEA, and reflect the unit price of sugar
for the corresponding year.
3.        Administration cane is the cost invested in cane standing but not
harvested within the fiscal year; it would be harvested the following year.
4.        Development loans are production loans to outgrowers for planting,
cultivation and harvesting granted by CEA at an 8% per annum rate of interest.
5.        Dead season expenses are expenditures absorbed by CEA in carrying out
annual, routine, preventive maintenance of the sugar factories and of transport-
ation system during the period of the year (usually between July and November)
when the sugar factories are not grinding cane.
6.        Work orders are construction works to be undertaken in the fields,
transportation, sugar factories or at CEA headquarters.
7.        Draft animals are the oxen used to haul the cane from the fields and
to transfer it to the railway and trucks.
8.        Material inventory includes spare parts, equipment and materials.
While the amount of about US$35 million appears high relative to the book value
of US$155 million of capital, it is actually only about 5% of the current
market replacement value of all CEA assets.
9.        Deferred taxes are taxes of various types, mostly export taxes, which
were not paid to Govermnent due to low world sugar prices and relatively high
costs of production. It is assumed that these taxes amounting to US$33.6 million
would be deferred until 1982 at which year they would start to be paid over
the following six-year period.
10.       The current ratio calculation considers as current assets only cash,
accounts receivable and sugar and molasses stocks but excludes other items
described as current assets in CEA's balance sheets, such as loans to outgrowers,
draft animals and material inventorr as their cash conversion period exceeds
one year.
l1.       In the base case, Part A, the large accumulated cash balance ís
indicative of the amount of cash which the company would have available to dis-
tribute to its permanent workers and to Government according to CEA statutes
(para 2.13 of main text).
Prices Used in Financial Statement
1.        Constant 1978 dollars are used in the financial statements except for
the loans raised to finance the project (Bank US$35 million, cofinancing US$20
million), which are in current prices to enable the reader to follow the analysis
more clearly.
August 10, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams!./
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Sugar      Trans-                                             Savings    Savings in         Savings in
Factory   portation  Agriculture                   Value of   in Cane   Transportation  Sugar Factory
Equipment  Equipment   Equipment    Management  Additional  Grinding  Operation and   Operation and
Year  and Works  and Works  and Services  Assistance    Sugar?/    Period   Maintenance              Maintenance
(Ci)       (C2)           (C3)          (C4)         (B1)      (B2)            (B3)            (B4)
1   15,207.8    3,362.5        4,652.9           -            -         -              -
2   17,788.7   12,161.9        2,206.4       1,055.0      4,210.0      31.0           79.0              -
3        -       2,133.0         475.4       1,681.4      7,940.0    235.0           860.0             84.0
4,       -       2,133.0         285.0         801.2    12,658.8    223.0          1,066.0             91.0
5        -       2,133.0         316.0         801.2    16,606.3    195.0          1,272.0             99.0
6        -           -             -           801.2    21,405.0    168.0          1,478.0            108.0
7        -           -             -           801.2    25,940.0    136.0          2,009.0            116.0
8        -           -             -           801.2    27,998.8    113.0          2,009.0            126.0
9        -           -             -           801.2    21,667.5       90.0        2,009.0            136.0
10        -           -             -           801.2    22,836.3       71.0        2,009.0            145.0
11   -9,404.03/ -2,906.91/          -           801.2    24,405.0       42.0        2,009.0            155.0
1/  These cost and benefit streams have been adjusted by an accounting price for foreign exchange.
2/  Based on FOB prices as forecasted by Bank.
3/  Residual value of sugar factory and transportation equipment is based on the estimated resale value
on the occasional world markets for used equipment.                                                             >
Note:  Project life is limited to 11 years due to fact that after that period, project sugar estates
would required additional investment to increase capacity and thereby maintain a grinding
períod in the range of 180 to 210 days, considered as an acceptable range.
May 8, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organizational Chart of CEA Headquarters
ii Boarda oft    ectoMt  P
* FLnancIal               * Acco.nting                        * Budget,ng                          * Agriculture                      e Storage                          * Personnel Admn-strat.on
* Operational             * Comptrollershp                    * Treasurs                           * Manufacturrng ard                * Sh.pping                         * Recruitment                    Procurement
* Administration                                              * Projects and                          Maintenance                     * Marketing                        * Career Development
Studies                          * Transportat,on and                                                  * Relatrons with UnUons
Maintenance                                                       e Social Benefits
* Installations,                                                     * Training
Construct.on and
¡ Adm") stra- -- § ir Finance and X i | MaMartntgnance
Ma.ni-tance                                                                                    World Bank   20043
IDS



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule"l
Year 1                    Yea, 2                     Yead 3                    Year 4                     Year 5
Key Acttivmtes_                        _..rIII                                                                                      r        __ 
Quarteis  1st   2rno   3td   4th   1si   2,nd   3rd  l4th    1st   2nd  I3d   l4th   1st   2oid   3rd   4th   1st                  3rd   4th
SUGAR FACTORIES                                      -     -             -                    -
Engineering
Ozama-                                                                        -     - 
Soca Chica
Rio Haina
Barahona
Consuelo                                                                            -      -     -
Quisqueya                                                                     -     -      -     -
TRANSPORTATION
Engineering
Railway Equipment and Materiais                                            _      I
Trucks arid Road Mairntenrance Equi; rnent
Ozama Cane Yard Equipment
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation and Drainage in Barahona Sugar Estate
Rehabilitation Study:
Updating lrrigation and Drainage Networks
Semi Detailed Soil Study
Design of Irrigation and Drainage System
Roads Study
Pilol Research:
Detailed So¡i Study
Irrigation and Drainage Study and Works
Land Leveling Study and Works
Nlonitoring and Training i
Cane Area Reduction Program                                   i     i                                                                                                    i
Aerial Photographv                                                                                         ii
Soil Survey
Cadastral Survey
Transport Study
Land Capability Survey
Agricultural Researchi
Agricultural Extension
Mechanization Pilot Researcli
Purchase of Equipment                                                -                       i        
Training, Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                    -     -      -
Cane Sucrose Content Pilot Research
MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
ilanagement Studies                                                              1                                                                                i
EDP Systems Engineering                                -                                  _     L                                                                    -      -
EDP Hardware Leasing                                   i                                
1, Excludes cetail of sugar factories and transportation implementation schedu es which                                                                                                                   r|
are shown in IBRD Charts 2 and 3, respectively                                                                                                                  Worid Bank - 20044            ~           °



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Sugar Factories
Year 1                      Y ear 2                     Yea, 3                      Year 4                       Year 5
Key Activ,tes                            í---1-                                                                                    _7            -l~=n                     ,
FACTORIESI~~~~~uare'                                           4rh2nT   Ist   2na   3rd   4th    it        nd   3rdl  4thj   s    2n         3      4Th     lt 2n         3r       h
Prepa---t o, of Tender Documents
OZAMA
Millí,nc Station
Mílhnsg Tanderri2                                       M¡  
Millíng Tandem3                                                              -           -
Juice Treatment and Evaporation.
Juice Scale-
Ju,ee Heater
CIarifiíers
Sugar Boílhng and Crvstallization
Vacuum Pansis~
Crystall zers                                                  E
Seed Receivers
Calandrias
Boiling House. Exteuision
Centrifugal Staríon
A/B Centr,fugais
<2 Centrifugais 
Steam asnd Power Generation
Turbo-Generators-
Pumps, Knives, L,ming Tank, Condenser,                                               ~
Track Scale, Piping, Others
BOCA CHICA
M¡iling Stat,on 
Mlill Turbinesand Gearing-                                                         -       -
Sscamn anid Power Geneiration
Turbo-Generators- -
Purmps, Water, Limne Jauce, Molasses, Mixed JuiceU
RIO HAINA
VM,lling Station
Mill Turbines a,id Gear¡ng
BARAHRON A
Cerut,fugal Ssationu
AIB Centrifugals
CONSUELO
Cane Preparation
Shredder
Rail Car Dumping Ramp
Steam asid Pomer Generation
Boiler
OUISQUEYA
Steam asid Power Generation
Boiler                                                               Ml  
-Procurements <tenderinq, manufacturing, ceiiery
Constructíosn (foundat,ons, sruct--re, erect,on, comm,ss,on,ng) 
1/ Engsneerísng would beigin about m,el-1979                                                                                                                      mx
2/ Th,s sched.le assumes -1líing tanidem  ~nuld be e,ected or. site of presents tandem                                                                           <
3/ This schedule assumes mil ng tanidem would be erected bes,de thse presents tandem                                    WrdBn       04



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Transport Equipment and Works
Ye,l 1                    Year 2                      Year 3                    Year 4                     Year 5
Key Act vities
Quarters   lst   2lf  3rd   4th    1t   2nd   3rd   4t            st   2nd   3d    4t    1st   2nd   3rd | 4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th
ENGINEER ING                                                                                                   i
Technical Specifications
Preparation of Tender Documents
RAILWAY EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Cross Ties                                                     _                                                                                                                    - e           -
Ballast Stone                                                  _  _ e                                                  -             -
Rail                                                             U-I           in   tutu                                                              _
Welding Kits                                                      -                 § 11t1leeii                                                   _
Rail Anchors and Gauge Rods                                      m-     _   el*_
Screw Spikes                                                       m         111                                                           _                                                      _
Portable Ballast Stone Crushers                                _-I-_        t         li                      
Light Tamper Machines                                                        liii                      I
Ra¡l Inspection Cars                                              =I-                         a t "itI
Tie Carving and Drilling Machines                                            lislas  l|ii
Tractors with Backhoeand Bucket                                                ali  es ti
Tie Replacing Machines                                            _                                                  l|I                                                                 I
Herbicide Sprayers                                              -     _      tla   ees                         l lea a a.
1 50,20 m tons Cane Cars and 50 Bogies                                                      mtaih|I
Three 45 m tons Diesel-Electric Locomotives                             _     _ll0llolo lii:                                             I             I  lI                             I      I
120 Thru Air Brake Pipe Kits                                                       me*
Telecommunication Equipment                                            -1 elIi
Profabricated 30'' Railway Car Repair Shop Building                   = _  _   .    a 1 9 y
Traveling Crane for Repair Shop                                                                         aiií
Wheel Press                                                                               F              iai
Wheel L.athe                                                                                             11
Axie Lathe, Radial Drill and Other Machine Tool                                                         M Ii 
Portable Hand Tnols                                                  i¡                           _        11
480 Roller Bearing Boxes                                                                      m       i"m '  -   I a
Miscellaneous Track Hand Tools                                              ;                           §pelo
TRUCKS AND ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
20, 25 m tons Truck Tractors                                    _-I-              lila
40, 25 rn tons Semi Trailers                                    _ I         iSil         tIji
Five Caterpiller D6 or Equivalent                               _-           a     i  o§ Ese
OZAMA CANE YARO EQUIPMENT
Cane Table                                                                          liiI
Two Grab Loaders                                                     i      I                     *MMIiU
Hoists, one 15 m tons Traveling and one 8 m tons fixed Hoist*                iiMji                                                       i                                        i 
Manifolds and Chain Mlats                                                           a a aI
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                                           3t
M   M _  _    T(Lnde,,,,g,Bjink Approzva  Conatract Signul19                                                                                    -
1lttt1tts1 NAanufactur,,qg¿vild De¡,ve,v at Port rl
;            ¡~ Assemi,ly Const,uct,on, MoverTIent to S;te. Comrm,ssion,ng                                           \rdBn-206|D



- ,17 -
ANNEX 9
Chart 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present Values of Cost and Benefit Streams Against D:Lscount Rates
10.0-o°
NIO.
9.0
>8.0
w 5.0
co 
u-
CL 4,0
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 2s 26 2 7
D ISCOUNT RRTE
L 5E0 GE ND_= 11._oox - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CRPITTL
= INCREMENTRL BENEFITS
---                       = INCREMENTL COSTS
May 7, 1979



- 118 -
AlNEX 10
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Selected Reports and Studies
A.1 CEA - Study on the Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Sugar Industry,
1975, 10 vols., prepared by Bookers Agricultural and Technical
Services ltd.
A.2 CEA - Sugar Industry Rehabilitation Project, 1978, 2 vols., prepared by
FAO/CP as project preparation report.
Selected Working Papers
B.1  Barahona Estate:  Detailed Description of Drainage and Irrigation Works
and Terms of Reference for Water.
B.2  CEA Sugar Factories:  Technícal Information.
B.3 CEA Transportation System on Project Estates.
B.4  Financial Statements of Project Estates.
B.5 Railway Maps of Project Estates.
B.6 Economic and Financial Rates of Return: Computer Printout.
B.7  Legal Information Regarding Sugar Taxes and Subsidies.
B.8 Farm Models of Cane Outgrowers.
B.9  Analysis of Cost of Railway System Versus Road System on Project Estates.
B.10 Detailed Project Cost Table by Years and by Local Currency and Foreign
Exchange.
February 16, 1979



I BRD 14080
72'                                                                           71-    .70°| S-M MARCH 1979
7    L7pero.                                                                                                                                                                              d
NTE CR ST  -                                                 orioi                                                                     DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                   d G1.
r-oz  LO/O~ -~s   ->NRROPLATA                                                             SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                      -.
Locotion of SugOr Estotes
Costear                                                                        - BELIZE    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA  HA1611  P ... o R-r
r  1 ¡ _ /Soon  Lrg                                                              Jose ConBrenos                                                                                                                                  5.. SAifrLvAfiSO     OAUGIUJAiUWt
-10
- '      i|l     \   B Lo  LORepre5Ct5AN TIA07   =í   r   :                             R 1l                                         ^                        orea/e               PANAMA
( L4]=e  >^Lornde                                                                 \Morare1 I--SMnedeotro   c0(O  r                                        \ .
A                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69'     rrrr,aeraer
Los T*,,e-s    ~ ~ ~ ~.r.....re ,O                       O.O.,,rOr
:; 4 < 0 ~~~~~~~~~~de o. Mas M.>0t-=¡<6- -   -___ 
To0 Pon orrl'r , oc ' e ápedro Sontoro                                             ,      L Ca'eno           j                                  U     I          C                                                   c d  Lo Ms
t.E L 1                                          J.q d. H.,a                    c---/-.                   L.r S.1                          L. u-                                                                                                                r
Y~ ~~~~~PJ                                                                                            H 9.sAr éX\ \ OB ERelVeó '   9 ,A,GXO
rL g  ¡;  , tL > m41 /srgX Pro Escond do { ^ /çr t - PeOmor de Oct > _ fflW ¡ v 1.3~~~~~~~~~~Y.  .-                                                                                                                              ElMoco
d  d,. L.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Rc e'm
=        ur;u    jÁ Alta9rro                         a       B%<o< ARAHONA                    L   54ns            Aguo ceLo Estoncrat;b;Se                                                                   7r
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R1                                                                                                ---u 7  wJ 
Nos Saleas---
> ;Aa   gi        d            <                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT COiMiPrNENTS                                                                                 LOCATION  OP SUGAR ESTATES
=PEDERNALESr°    Segar Esrorees:                                                                                                                                                         Maom Roeds                            E                                VICINI
- IS   R5   \|                              ;/z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Suegar Foetoro anrdtor Rojroaird R,Irobiltelrnoa                                                    Secaicadrp Ruad                        I 5corehone                       13 Coer                               Ia--
.                     /,                      |         ~         ~~~~~~~~ Crjre Areri Rodoctior Pnrograr l,2.3.4,5ir6            +-- I       rulardro                              2 RioHonro                        14 CrolCobol Cobon
Cob  Rol                                                         ,.f'            -     rrgahotrsDar oge Sbody oer Pilot Resoarjar Area I                *4s      Majar Airprotrs                       3 Ocoeri                           15 Arrgietrra
Cobo Rojo   \     -i  Enriqulito                 4¿            -  -  Iri~echorreetoro Piloi Beserrlac 4                                  *'      Otlser Airporis                       4 boarhia                         -LF ANOS WeSteRN
X  J                            t          w j~~~~~~~~~~ Prlot Sbody for Meas erorg Corre Serrase CondeeS 12           p,      FarIs                                 5 OoisgruolaioL    nae
gr   S                    |                  S~~~~~~ugar Paortars                                                 ^--   Rover,                                 0 CoaoseLo
_  _---\    Ov edo l /                     EXISTING SUGAR ESTATES                                        -   -   -   Int~~~~~~~~~~~Prereerioel Baoudories   7 Soatri Fe
:2X:j  CEAC1`so l2                                                                 9 Cadrrey
5  viginl 13 14iS1                       K                   lIP    2i      3jr    40    i5               10Espoiroeze
16       Golf cnd Wesbern 16                              IIOCMiEtEiS                                                     1   mso
)  A                                            ^~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eerist,rg Segar Parterres                       MILESw                                      3              12 Arrestadlon
7|2 t  G ^/ i iea/o /S   7 ¡                                                            7jiEr                                                                          b°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d. Y.
rEnoIr, r~~~~~                                                                                                                                                           lSHNAoCteLleoaa
75'                                                                    70~~~~1.  stt-M,                                                               69'CE               ICN



