C       ]g        LOAN NUMBER 1760 DO
Loan Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTMERNTIONAL BANK TOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO ESTATAL DEL AZUCAR
Dated                                , 1979


﻿/I
LOAN NUMBER 1760 DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CONSEJO ESTATAL DEL AZUCAR (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from a commercial
bank or banks a loan in an amount equivalent to ninety million
dollars ($90,000,000) (hereinafter called the Private Bank Loan)
to assist in financing: (i) part of the Project, in an amount
equivalent to not less than twenty million dollars ($20,000,000);
and (ii) current operations and capital expenditures (other than
the Project) of the Borrower, in the remaining amount, on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Private Bank Loai Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and such commercial bank or banks;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
.General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "CEA Law" means the Guarantor's Law No. 7 published in
the Guarantor's Gaceta Oficial, dated August 20, 1966, which
establishes the Borrower;
(b) "Ozama" means an Ingenio Azucarero of about 8,000
hectares located in the vicinity and east of the towns of La Bomba
and La Victoria; "Rio Haina" means an Ingenio Azucarero of about
38,000 located in the vicinity of the town of Haina; "Boca Chica"
means an Ingenio Azucarero of about 8,000 hectares located in the
vicinity of the town of Boca Chica; "Consuelo" means an Ingenio
Azucarero of about 12,000 hectares located in the, vicinity of
the town of Mata Palacio; "Quisqueya" means an Ingenio Azucarero
of about 8,000 hectares located in the vicinity of the town of Los
Llanos; and "Barahona" means ,an Ingenio Azucarero of about 12,000
hectares located in the vicinity of the towns of Barahona and
Vicente Noble; and such Ingenios Azucareros are hereinafter
collectively called "the Project Estates";
(c) "Ingenio Azucarero" means a sugar mill owned by the
Guarantor and administered by the Borrower in accordance with the
CEA Law; and the term includes the land, plantations, factories,
cattle, railroad, equipment and other assets used in its oper-
ation;
(d) "Payment Date" means any of the dates referred to in
Section 2.07 of this Agreement in which the Borrower has to make
payments to the Bank on account of principal of, or interest and
other charges on, the Loan;
(e) "Outgrower" means any individual or group of individuals
associated in accordance with the laws of the Guarantor, who is
not an Ingenio Azucarero and has entered with the Borrower into a
contract for the supply of sugarcane to an Ingenio Azucarero;
(f)  "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor; and
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
starts on October 1 and ends on September 30 of the following
calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred


﻿-3-
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-f *ve
million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the rp sonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.9%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I7I
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering and administrative practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:
(a) with respect to Part A of the Project, engineering
consultants who shall prepare specifications for the equipment to
be acquired thereunder and supervise the installation of equipment
for Ozama and the works related thereto;
(b) with respect to Part B of the Project and not later
than January 31, 1980, railway consultants who shall prepare
specifications for purposes of Part B.1, Part B.2, Part B.3 and
Part B.4 and supervise the execution thereof, advise on main-
tenance of cane hauling rail cars and locomotives and organize the
rail traffic on each of the Project Estates;
(c) with respect to Parts C.2, C.3, C.4, D.l, D.2, D.3,
E and G of the Project, as and when needed for purposes thereof,
experts and consultants in the relevant fields thereto; and
(d) with respect to Part F of the Project, when required
by the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section 3.04
of this Agreement, chemical consultants and laboratory experts.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part
D.3 of the Project, take all such action, satisfactory to the
Bank, as shall be necessary to reorganize the activities of the
experimental station included in such Part of the Project and to
ensure that such reorganization is carried out by January 31,
1981.
(b) Promptly after such date, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank a statement of the action taken pursuant to (a) above,
the results achieved thereunder and the recommendation of further
action that may be taken for purposes of Part D.3 of the Project,
including the justification for any purchase of equipment or
vehicles that may be recommended in such statement for financing
under the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall not make any purchase pursuant to
paragraph (b) hereof unless the Bank has expressed its approval
thereon.
4~


﻿5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take, for purposes of
Part F of the Project, all such action as shall be necessary to
ensure that payments to Outgrowers for cane supplied to Ingenio
Azucarero Monte Llano by such Outgrowers in respect of the 1980/1
grinding season shall be made on the basis of the sucrose content
of such cane.
(b) The program under Part F of the Project shall be carried
out during the grinding season 1980/1 and during the carrying
out of such program the Borrower shall take all such additional
steps, in consultation with the Bank, as shall be necessary to
ensure that the completion of the program permits the obtainment
of sufficient and reliable data for purposes of paragraph (c)
below.
(c) Promptly upon completion of the program referred to
in (b) above but in any event not later than October 31, 1981, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report on the findings
of such program and the Borrower's recommendations, based on the
experience gained from it, on whether the payment system used
under such program, or reasonable variations thereof, may be
applied to other Ingenios Azucareros.
(d) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on the recommendations of the report referred to
in.(c) above before the putting into effect thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part G.2
of the Project and not later than December 31, 1980, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report describing a training program for.
selected members of the Borrower's staff in the fields of mechani-
cal and chemical engineering, both with emphasis on the sugar
production industry; such report to include a reasonable timetable
for the overall carrying out of the program.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrowtr to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor on each
Payment Date, starting on the first Payment Date next following
the date of the first withdrawal from the Loan Account, a gua-
rantee fee at a rate of 2.1% per annum on the unpaid balance of
the Loan as of such Payment Date; provided, however, that for
purposes of this Section: (i) the Loan shall be deemed denominated
and repayable in dollars; (ii) whenever in connection with this
Section it shall be necessary to value in terms of dollars any


﻿-7-
foreign currency payable under the Loan, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rates of exchange at which such
foreign currency and dollars were, at the time of withdrawal of
such currency from the Loan Account, obtainable by the Borrower;
and (iii) each of the payments of the guarantee fee provided for
under this Section which has become due before the first Payment
Date set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall be deferred
until such first Payment Date and such payment shall bear interest
at a rate of 10% per annum on the outstanding balance thereof.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken
all action as shall be required to ensure that the execution
of the Project is carried out in conformity with appropriate
pollution control and ecological standards.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with CEA Law.
and with appropriate administrative, business, financial, engi-
neering and agricultural practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by adequate,
experienced and competent staff.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to carry-
on operations, including, without limitation, the Project, and
shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents,
franchises or other rights as may be necesary or useful for its
operations (including the Project).
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking, including the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, irtsurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, before undertaking to make
any appointment to the position of chief of the Borrower's Project
and Special Studies Department" afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of any
candidate for such position.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare plans, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, in respect of the three Fiscal Years next following
the Fiscal Year in which such plans shall be furnished to the Bank
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section, for: (i) the
maintenance of the facilities, equipment and property in each of
the Ingenios Azucareros and in .the Borrower's headquarters,
including repairs thereto and renewal thereof; and (ii) the
capital expenditures (other than the Project) to be incurred for
the modernization and expansion of each of the Ingenios
Azucareros; such plans to cover the expenses under (i) and (ii)
above and the availability of funds for the purposes;
(b) until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank,
not later than three months before the end of each Fiscal Year,
each of the plans referred to in paragraph (a) above;
(c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
each of the plans to be furnished to.the Bank pursuant to para-
graph (b) above or on any modification thereof before putting into
effect any such plan or modification;
(d) carry out its maintenance operations and capital expend-
itures consistently with the plans and modifications thereof
furnished to the Bank in accordance with this Section; and
(e) upon completion of the Project, continue preparing plans
for the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of
the three Fiscal Years next following the Fiscal Year in which
each of such plans is prepared and shall carry out its maintenance
operations and capital expenditures consistently with such plans.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿-9-
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
the operations and financial condition of each of the Project
Estates.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
(including separate accounts for each of the Project Estates)
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements), including financial statements
for each Ingenio Azucarero, for,each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its accounts for such -year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time'reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, *such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other chargeg on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank ' to secure the payment of the  principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foreg6ing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall, when required by
the Borrower to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (b)
and (c) hereof, carry out a study to determine whether the current


﻿-10-
interest rate charged on loans made by the Borrower directly or
through an Ingenio Azucarero to Outgrowers.for purposes of financ-
ing cane planting, cultivation and harvest by the Outgrowers
results in financial losses to the Borrower; such study to take
into account the timing and amounts of each payment made by the
Borrower directly or through an Ingenio Azucarero to the Out-
growers on account of sugarcane supplied by the Outgrowers.
(b) Promptly upon termination of the study referred to
in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report with
the findings and recommendations of such study and shall afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon before taking
any action recommended to be taken by such report.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take any action recommended by the
report referred to in (b) above, by September 30,,1980.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary or advisable to: (i) ensure that any payment
of principal of, or interest and other charges on, a loan made by
the Borrower directly or through an Ingenio Azucarero to an
Outgrower, which is overdue as of the date of this Agreement,
shall be promptly made by the Outgrower in question; (ii) charge
to the Borrower's provision for bad debts any amount under a loan
referred to in (a) (i) above which remains overdue by January 31,
1982.
(b)   The Borrower shall, contemporaneously with the action to
be taken by the Borrower for purposes of paragraph (a) (i) above,
prepare a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request and furnish such plan to the Bank not later
than December 31, 1979.
Section 5.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur any debt
unless the consolidated net revenues of the Ingenios Azucareros
for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding such incurrence or for a
later twelve-month period ended -prior to such incurrence, which-
ever shall be greater, shall not be less than 2 times the debt
service requirements on all debt (including the debt to be
incurred) in any succeeding Fiscal Year. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower, or any
advance of monies for the benefit of an Ingenio Azucarero which is
repayable by the Borrower or directly by an Ingenio Azucarero, all


﻿payable by its terms on demand or maturing more than one year from
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a ton-
tract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt,
on the date, and to the extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, or other instrument guaran-
teed by the Borrower, on the date the agreement or instrument
providing for such guarantee has been entered into or issued, as
the case may be, but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt
is outstanding;
(c) the term "consolidated net revenues of the Ingenios
Azucareros" means the gross revenues from sales of sugar and
molasses produced by all the Ingenios Anucareros plus payments of
interest and other charges on loans made by the Borrower directly
or through an Ingenio Azucarero to Outgrowers, less the sum of
the operzing and administrative expenses of, plus provision for
taxes and interest on short-term debt (maturing less than one year
from the date on which it is originally incurred) made by, all the
Ingenios Azucareros and the Borrower, but before provision is made
for depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amOount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), in-
terest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Guarantor
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Borrower for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
foreign currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank and the Bor-ower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause
all the Ingenios Azucareros to maintain jointly, a ratio of
current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3 to 1,
at all times, until the last day of the Fiscal Year ending
September 30, 1982 and of not less than 1.5 to 1 at all times
thereafter.


﻿d I
-12-
(b) For purposes of this Section: (i) "current assets"
includes cash, accounts receivable due within twelve months (other
than accounts receivable originating in loans made by the Borrower
directly or through an Ingenio Azucarero to Outgrowers), prepaid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next
twelve months following the date on which such prepaid expenses
were paid, and sugar and molasses stocks, and excludes inventories
and other items which may not, in the ordinary course of business,
be converted into cash within twelve months, such as draft animals
and materials; and (ii) the term "current liabilitles" means
accounts payable within twelve months plus taxes, bonuses and all
other liabilities (including debt), all which will become due and
payable, or could under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree and in order to ensure that the Borrower is able
to utilize such internally generated funds as shall be required
for purposes of the carrying out of the plans referred to in
Section 4.05 of this Agreement and to meet its debt service
requirements, the Borrower shall, in accordance with Article 12 of
CEA Law and for the aforesaid purposes, allocate to reserves not
less than 40 per cent of the Borrower's surplus in each Fiscal
Year.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any of the measures taken by the Guarantor, or any
administrative sub-division thereof, for purposes of Section 7.01
(c) of this Agreement, or the CEA Law, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to
carry out its operations, including the Project; and
(b) the right "of the Borrower to utilize the Private Bank
Loan or any loan made to the Borrower for purposes of the Project
shall bave been suspended or cancelled in whole or in part pur-
suant to the terms thereof.


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the Private Bank Loan or any debt for money borrowed by
the Borrower for purposes of the Project with an original maturity
of one year or more shall have become due and payable before
its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a).
of this Agreement have been. hired;
(b) that the Private Bank Loan Agreement has been executed
and delivered in form and substance satisfaczory to the Bank;
and
(c) that the Guarantor has taken all appropriate measures-
as shall be necessary to eliminate the subsidization of Corpora-
ci6n Dominicana de Electricidad and to ensure that the resources
so released will not be used to subsidize institutions or activi-
ties in any other sector.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Private Bank Loan Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto
and is valid and binding on such parties in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The dat               / 9 F6  is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Se ion 12. 4 of the General Conditions.


﻿-14
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.0l. The folloving addreoses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Recontruction and Development
1818 R Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of AmerLcá
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Consejo Estatal del Azcar
Apartado Postal 1256 y 1258
Santo Domingo,
Repåblica Dominicana
Cable address:                       Telex:
CEDAZU                             3460016 (ITT) or
Santo Domingo                         4123 (ITT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-15 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
firet above written,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION% AND DEVELOPMENT
By     1é&S6dt                         2J~
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO ESTATAL DEL AZUCAR
By
Authorized Representative
41 1
;..


﻿-16-
BChEDULE
Vthdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table belov sete forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
awounts of the Loan to eaach Category and the percentage of
expenditures for iteams so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         Z of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Equipment and engi-
neering services
for Part Å of the
Project:
(a) equipment               21,790,000  )
) 100% of fore:gn
(b) engineering                930,000  )   expenditures
services                           )
(2) Equipment, materials
and technical ser-
vices for Part B of
the Project:
(a) equipment and            1,530,000  )
aterials                          )   13% of foreign
) expenditures
(b) technical                  150,000  )
services                           )
(3) Consultant service.é
for Parts C, D, E,
F and G of the Proj-
ect and goods for
Parts D.2, D.3 and E
of the Project and
computer leasing for
Part G of the Project


﻿-17-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(a) services for Parts        4,380,000  )
C, D, E and F and                   )
goods for Parts                     )
D.2, D.3 and E                      )   100% of foreign
) expenditures
(b) services for Part G         850,000  )
(c) computer leasing          1,870,000  )
(4) Unallocated                    3,500,000
TOTAL         35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-.
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied.
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$150,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1 and 3 (b) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after June 1, 1979.
VAI


﻿II
-18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
p


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The primary objective of the Project is to improve the
Borrower's operational efficiency and financial situation by
reducing the costs of its sugar production, by preventing break-
downs in its sugar manufacturing process and sugarcane transpor-                          1
tation system and by strengthening its management methods.
The Project consists of:
A.   Rehabilitation of the factories at the
Project Estates
Replacement of sugar factory equipment, including the
corresponding civil works and engineering services, in factories
at Ozama, Boca Chica, Rio Haina, Barahona, Consuelo and Quisqueya,
all as more fully detailed in the Annex to this Schedule.
B.   Rehabilitation of the sugarcane transportation system of
the Project Estates
1.   Rehabilitation of about 540 kilometers of railway track
in Project Estates other than Barahona, including
acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials
therefor.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of three 45-ton diesel-
electric locomotives, 2 for Ozama and 1 for Boca Chica,-
and of about one hundred fifty 20-ton cane hauling cars
for Ozama.
3.   Acquisition and utilization of spare parts for 30-inch
gauge railroad cars.
4.   Construction and equipping of a repair shop for 30-inch
gauge railways.
5.   Acquisition and utilization of telecommunications
equipment for improving efficiency and safety of rail
traffic.
6.   Acquisition of about twenty 25-ton truck tractors, forty
25-ton cane trailers and five bulldozers and utilization
thereof for cane hauling and road maintenance.


﻿-20-
7.   Construction of a bulk cane yard at Ozama.
C.   Rehabilitation of Barahona
1.   A detailed analysis of about 11,500 hectares of Barahona
to determine: (i) the cultivation area required to
supply, under efficient sugarcane production methods,
the necessary sugarcane to meet the installed capacity
of the mill; and (ii) the investments required to retard
and to stop soil salinization.
2.   Development of about 100 hectares of Barahona, as a
pilot scheme, to obtain information on: (i) costs for
improving the drainage system and for improving the
operation and maintenance thereof; (ii) techniques to
improve sugarcane cultivation, including land leveling
and appropriate, irrigation methods; and (iii) sugarcane
varieties best adapted to the soils of Barahona, and to
train the Borrower's personnel in charge of water
distribution and irrigation.
3.   Supporting studies for 1. above on: (i) updating of
working drawings on the Barahona irrigation and drainage
networks; (ii) controlled aerial photography; and (iii)
soil and land suitability surveys.
4.   Supporting studies for 2. above on detailed topography
and land leveling of the applicable 100 hectares.
D.   A program for reduction of cane areas in the Project Estates
consisting of:
1.   Studies for obtaining basic information for the carrying
out of the program, including aerial photography,
cadastral survey, soil survey and a transport study.
2.   A land suitability survey.
3.   Strengthening of agricultural research and extension
services provided by the Borrower's Duquesa Experi-
mental Station with a view to increasing productivity
targets in cane growing, including acquisition and
utilization of vehicles and equipment required for the
purpose.


﻿217
- 21 -
4.   (1) Reduction of the Borrower 's cane areas; (ii)
reduction of Outgrowers cane areas, both as target
increases in productivity are achieved; and (iii)
establishment of a .permanent geographic information
system to assist the Borrower in evaluating and Improv-
ing management of the resource base. All the aforesaid
to be carried on the basis of the carrying out of 1, 2
and 3 above.
E.   Mechanization progran in Boca Chica
A pilot researc, program for mechanization of agricultural
and harvesting operations in Boc-a Chica, including acquisition of
goods and utilization thereof for purposes of the program.
F.   Cane grading program in Ingenio Azucarero Monte Llano
A pilot program on the feasibility of paying Outgrowers who
are supplying cane to the Ingenio Azucarero Monte Llano on the
basis of sucrose content of the cane supplied.
G.   Strengthening of the Borrower's organization and management
1.   Acquisition of electronic data processing facilities
and utilization thereof for: (i) record keeping control
and planning of the Borrower's main administrative
tasks; (ii) planning agricultural and manufacturing
production; and (iii) transportation scheduling.
2.   Development of personnel policies and training programs.
3.   Improvement of the Borrower's internal organization.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿-22-
ANEX TO SCUEDULE 2
List of major Equipeft Itj*
for the ahmbilitation
under Part A of the Project of
Factories at ýthe Project, Estates
Oza
Killing tandem
Turbo-generators
"C" crystallizers
"A/B" cryotallizers
"A/b" centrifugals
" entrifugale
CUarifier
Vacuum pans
Juice heaters, scale
Seed receivers
Calandrias
FiLter cake -system
Boca Chica.
Turbines and mill gearing
Turbo-generators
Injectión water pumps
Rio Haina
Turbines and mill gearing
Barahona
Centrifugals
Consuelo
Shredder
Boiler
Quisqueya
Boiler
]i


﻿-23    -
SCHEDULIE 3
ortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Duc                           9expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1984
through   January 1, 1996                  1,345,000
On July 1, 1996                                 1 375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24
Premiums oa Prepayment
The following percentages' are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:c
Time of-Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall.
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update st:h notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods for Parts A, B, D.2, D.3 and E of the Project shall
be grouped whenever possible, so as to constitute bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on a
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 26 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Dominican Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Dominican Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Dominican Republic equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3. All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿-27-
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price* If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 fs the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods for Parts A, B, D.2, D.3 and E of the Project which
cannot be grouped to constitute bidding packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more each, may be procured under
contracts with reputable suppliers of such goods account being
taken of the availability of spare parts thereof and services, if
so required; provided, however, that such contracts shall be
awarded only after the Borrower has received quotations from not
less than three of such suppliers; and further provided, that the
aggregate of contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent
of $500,000 or more.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts procured under Part A hereof
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
*        bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Batik, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) or (b) of this Agreement, as the case may be,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together


﻿-028 -
with the recommendations for award of the said consultants and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Dank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿lo- h
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        197__.
FOR SECRETARY
4M


