FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No'--281-ME
APPRAISAL OF THE
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
MEXICO
November 14, 1973
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (MNx$)           1 Mex$          = US$ 0.08
US$1          = Mex$ i2.5                     Mex$ 1 million = US$ 80,000
Measures
mm. = millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m    = meter (1 m 3.28 feet)
km   = kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha   = hectare (1 ha 5 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
km2  =  square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres = 100 ha = 0.386 square miles)
m3   = cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards   264.2 US gallons)
Mm3  = million m3 (1 Mm3 = 811 acre feet)
kg   = kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
ton  = 1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
Abbreviations
SRH             =  Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of Water Resources)
CRF             =  Comision del Rio Fuerte (SRH Executive Commission dealing with
the Rio Fierte)
CAADES          =  Comfederacion de Asociaciones Agricolas del Estado de Sinaloa
(Confederation of Farmer Associations of the State of Sinaloa)
DAAC            = Departamento de Asuntos Agrarios y Colonizacioan
(Department of Agrarian Affairs and Colonization)
FONDO           = Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y
Avicultura (Fund in Central Bank to provide agricultural
credit)
SAG             =  Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock)
PLAMEPA         =  Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (SRH group providing intensive
extension service)
CONASUPO        = Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (Government
organization guaranteeing prices and purchases of subsistence
crops)
BANEJIDAL       =  Banco Nacicnal de Credito Ejidal (official Bank granting
credit to ejidatarios only)
BANCO AGRICOLA  =  Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, S.A. (official Bank granting
credit to small private holders and colonists)
BANAGRO         -  Banco Nacional Agropecuario, S.A.
IDB             =  Interamerican Development Bank
USAID           = United States Agency for International Development
Fiacal Year - January 1 - December 31



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ .............  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................                        1
II.   BACKGROUNT) ........      ..............................    2
General ..       .......................................    2
Agricultural Sector ......       ...................... .  2
Government Policy for Agriculture ...........             3
Agricultural Supporting Services .............            4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....................    ............    6
Soils, Topography, and Drainage         ................    6
Climate .     .........................................  6
Population ........     ..............................    6
Transportation, Processing, and Marketing .......    7
Land Holdings and Tenure ........................         7
Present Use of Project Lands ....................         8
Present Irrigation Works ........................         9
IV.   THE PROJECT         .....................................   10
Description .....  10
Water Supply, Requirements, and Utilization .....    11
Status of Engineering ......      .....................   12
Cost Estimates .......  . ...........................   12
Financing       .......................................   14
Procurement       .....................................   14
Expenditure Schedule ......      ......................   15
Disbursements ...................................        15
Advance Contracting         .............................   16
Accounts and Auditing ...        ........................   16
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................     ....   17
Administration        ..................................   17
Operation and Maintenance ....................    ...   17
Agricultural Services ......      .....................   17
Water and Development Charges ................    ...   18
This report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions.  The first,
composed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, J.J. Schul, and A. Anir (IBRD) and A.
Cornejo (consultant), visited Mexico in December 1972, and the second, com-
posed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, R.R. Rossi, and A. Amir (IBRD) and H.R.
McDonald (consultant), visited Mexico in May 1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                 Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND FARMERS' INCOME    19
Production ......................................   19
Markets and Prices ............... ...............   20
Farmers' Income ....... . .........................   21
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .      ......................   24
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....... ..........................   26
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Loans for Agricultural Sector in Mexico
2.  Soils and Topography
3.  The Ejidal System, Water Law and Land Tenure
4.  Project Works
5.  Construction Schedule
6.  Water Availability, Requirements, ITtilization, and Quality
7.  Cost Estimates
8.  Equipment and Materials
9.  Expenditure Schedule
10.  Schedule of Disbursements
11.  Operating and Maintenance Costs
12.  Agricultural Services
13.  Project Projections on Crops, Areas, Yields, Farmgate Prices and
Cost of Production
14.  Cropping Pattern, Production, Production Costs and
Incremental Value of Production
15.  Detailed Labor Requirements and Production Costs
16.  The Outlook for Cotton
17.  Marketing and Prices
18.  Farmers Income
19.  Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
7434     Organization of SRH
7435     Organization Commission of the Rio Fuerte
MAP
10307    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for constructing an irrigation system
to serve about 100,000 ha on both banks of the Sinaloa River in the State of
Sinaloa. The Government has placed emphasis on irrigation as a means of in-
creasing agricultural production and to assist in applying agrarian reform
programs. About 4.2 million ha are currently irrigated. In the project area,
water is the single most important input to insure crop production.
ii.       The project would involve construction of a dam and reservoir to
store surface flows of the Sinaloa River. The surface water supply would be
augmented by use of groundwater. A second dam would be built to divert water
into the irrigation system that would serve both banks of the river. Drains
would be constructed to remove surplus water and the road network would be
extended. Lands requiring it would be cleared and all lands would be smoothed
or leveled. Equipment would be purchased for operation and maintenance and
installation at the dam. An intensive four-year extension service program
is included as a part of the project. Construction would take about five
years and full agricultural development would be achieved in about the
eighth year.
iii.      The total cost of the proposed project is US$145.6 million, inclu-
sive of interest on the Bank loan during the construction period. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$47.0 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange
cost (US$46.3 million) (including the estimated interest on the Bank loan
during construction (US$6.0 million)), and one-half of the estimated cost of
the four-year extension program (US$0.7 million). The remaining costs would
be met through Government budgetary allocations. Civil works except for smaller
contracts which because of nature or timing, cannot rationally be included in
the major contracts, and purchase of equipment would be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in order to be eligible for financing under the
loan. Contracts for land clearing and leveling, would be awarded to groups
of small farmers. Disbursements would be made as 38% of payments to contractors
for civil works, land clearing, and leveling, and as 50% of costs incurred by
the Government for extension services. Disbursements for equipment purchases
made under international bidding procedures would be at 100% cif. Disbursements
for interest would be based on actual cost.
iv.       The Ministry of Water Resources (Secretaria de Recurdos Hidraulicos,
(SRH)) would have responsibility for constructing, operating, and maintain-
ing the project and for providing extension services. The Ministry of Agri-
culture would assist in the technical aspects of the extension service, and



- ii -
the Department of Agrarian Affairs would be responsible for choosing and es-
tablishing ejidatarios 1! for the project. Normal banking channels would
provide the credit requirements.
v.        The net value of production in the project area would increase
from US$3.5 million annually to about US$29.5 millon, as measured in average
1971/72 farmgate financial prices. To achieve this production, approximately
15,500 man-years of employment would be required compared to 3,200 man-years
without the project. About 2,300 individuals would be given the opportunity
to become new ejidatarios and approximately 10,900 ejidatarios now living
on the project would improve their lot. The average net income of the
ejidatario would increase about 10 times, and that of the private smallholder
about the same. The economic rate of return to the economy would be of the
order of 17%.
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$47 million for a term
of 25 years, with a grace period of five years. The borrower would be Nacional
Financiera, S.A., the Government agency empowered to contract for external
financing. United Mexican States would guarantee the loan and carry the ex-
change risk.
1/ Ejidatarios are members of ejidos (communal farms),



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank loan of US$47.0 mil-
lion to help finance construction of the Sinaloa River irrigation system to
serve about 100,000 ha in Sinaloa State. The loan would be made to
Nacional Financiera with the Government of United Mexican States as Guarantor.
Four previous Bank loans, totaling US$71.5 1/ million, have been made for
similar works as well as four loans, totaling US$275.0 million, for agricul-
ture credit. Progress on these projects has been generally satisfactory
although cost overruns due to particular local conditions have occurred on
the last two irrigation projects. An overall performance evaluation is given
in Annex 1.
1.02      Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH) initially prepared the
project for construction in two phases under separate financing. The first
phase involved irrigating 40,000 ha on the left bank using a water supply
derived from the uncontrolled flows of the Sinaloa River, supplemented by
pumping from groundwater, while works in the second phase included construc-
tion of a storage reservoir on the Sinaloa River and development of the right
bank area. In December 1972, however, an appraisal mission determined that
the two phases should not be separated. First, the river's highly irregular
flows would not provide a dependable water supply for the first phase in
isolation, and, second, the full project is dependent on complementing the
controlled surface supply with groundwater withdrawals. Additional studies
were therefore required before the integrated project could be appraised by
a second mission.
1.03      This report is based on studies prepared by SRH and by their con-
sultants (CIEPS for Bacurato Dam and SITA for analysis of the integrated proj-
ect, both of Mexico City) and the findings of the two missions. The first mis-
sion was composed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, J.J. Schul, and A. Amir (IBRD) and
A. Cornejo (consultant). The second mission, in May 1973, included Messrs.
J.C. Douglass, R.R. Rossi, and A. Amir (IBRD) and H.R. McDonald (consultant).
1/   Loan 275-ME in January 1961 for US$15 million; Loan 336-ME in April 1963
for US$12.5 million; Loan 450-ME in May 1966 for US$19 million; and Loan
527-ME in January 1968 for US$25 million.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Since 1960 Mexico's overall economic performance has been impressive,
with GDP growing at an average annual rate of 7% and inflation being limited
to about 3.5% annually. Despite this, Mexico is faced with the triple prob-
lems of a rapidly increasing population, uneven distribution of wealth, and
relatively limited agricultural resources in relation to its size. The total
population is just over 54 million, of which 21 million (41%) live in the
rural areas. With an annual rate of increase of 3.4%, the population is
likely to be 100 million by 1990. Income distribution is highly skewed, with
the top 10% of the population, in 1969, commanding 51% of disposable income and
the bottom 20% only 4%. There is also a marked disparity between urban and
rural incomes, for, whereas the average per capita GNP for the country as a
whole was US$670 in 1971, in the rural areas, it was less than US$200. Nor
is the pattern of land use very favorable. Out of a total area of nearly
200 million ha, only 35 million ha is potential crop land, of which about 16
million are presently cultivated including 4 million under irrigation. It is
estimated that about 12 million ha is suitable for irrigation. The Mexican
Government has given agricultural development in general, and irrigation
development in particular, priority, particularly, as such development is a
suitable vehicle for extending agrarian reform.
Agricultural Sector
2.02      Although agriculture's direct contribution to GDP dropped from 25%
in 1950 to 11% in 1972, it still plays a major role in the Mexican economy.
Approximately 39% of the labor force obtains its main income from agriculture
and, in 1972, the sector contributed about 50% of export earnings. The target
now is to sustain this export level while, at the same time, producing enough
food to meet the demand of a rapidly growing domestic market.
2.03      From 1961 through 1965, agricultural production increased at an aver-
age rate of 4.7% per year, but from 1966 onwards, it dropped to about 2%. For
major staple foods, the poor performance is considered to be largely the result
of unfavorable climatic conditions and no permanent shortages are forecasted.
For livestock products, fats and oils, and fruits and vegetables, however,
production has continuously failed to keep pace with demand. This situation
is reflected in the market prices at farmgate, which exceed Government guar-
anteed prices, and in consumer prices of these products, which, since 1966,
have increased faster than prices in general. Government has recognized the
seriousness of the situation and lists the achievement of production increases
among its main objectives for the agricultural sector. The main constraints
on agricultural development are the limited cultivable area, a shortage of
water, and lack of access to technical assistance, long-term credit, and farm
inputs for a large number of producers.



- 3-
Government Policy for Agriculture
2.04      Production Objective.  Mexico is facing two major problems.  The
first is to keep pace with the growth of demand for agricultural products and
the second is to correct maldistribution of income. Since the majority of
the population is located in the northern part of the country where rainfall
is low, Government has emphasized irrigation as a means of increasing production.
Irrigated areas have tripled since 1950 and in 1970 covered 4.2 million ha,
producing 40% of the total agricultural production value and 60% of the total
crop output. Ilowever, if population continues to grow at its present rate
and productivity trends do not improve rapidly, Mexico will face a severe food
shortage before the end of the century. Simultaneously, there is a potential
water scarcity that could lead to regional water shortages in the late 1970's. 1/
Although increased attention is being given to settlement and rural development
projects, sustained efforts to improve land productivity through efficient use
of irrigation will be necessary if Mexico is to achieve its agricultural pro-
duction goals.
2.05      Distribution Objective.  The second big problem facing Mexican
agriculture is maldistribution of income (para 2.01). The average net annual
family income in Mexico is estimated at US$2,280, but the average net annual
family income in rural areas is only about US$860. However, about 40% of the
rural families have net annual family incomes of less than US$560. These
discrepancies arise mainly from the land tenure system.
2.06      The agricultural population can be subdivided into three groups:
landless peasants, ejidatarios, and small landowners. The landless peasants
provide most of the seasonal farm labor. Widespread unemployment among the
landless has caused massive migration towards the cities. Ejidatarios are
members of ejidos, which are groups of farmers. The land remains the property
of the ejido and is worked by the ejidatarios individually or collectively.
Although the ejidos were institutionalized after the Mexican Revolution and
their rights and obligations defined by successive agrarian laws since 1915,
their lot has improved very little over the years. Private landowners gener-
ally have better access to resources than the ejidatarios, but they often
still lack critical inputs such as water, capital, and technical expertise.
While private farmers with sufficient land have usually obtained satisfactory
incomes, the majority of those with less than 20 ha have not been much better
off than the ejidatarios.
2.07      In recognition of the situation, the President of the Republic has
pledged to improve the lot of the poorer farmers and the Government has passed
two major laws to this effect: the new Federal Agrarian Reform Law and the
Federal Water Law. The new Agrarian Reform Law is development oriented. It
recognizes the legal status of the ejidos, which makes it possible for ejida-
tarios to obtain credit; gives power to the Departamento de Asuntos Agrarios
y Colonizacion (DAAC) to carry out land reform; determines the maximum and
minimum sizes of farms to be held privately; fixes a ceiling on taxes to be
1/  IBRD is executive agency for a UNDP-financed National Water Plan Study.



-4-
paid by ejidatarios; and provides for redistribution of funds from taxes paid
by private farmers. Finally, it encourages ejidos to diversify into small-
scale industries. The Federal Water Law regulates distribution of water and
land in Irrigation Districts in a more equitable way. Under this law, the
Government can set up new Irrigation Districts and expropriate, with compensa-
tion, all land and irrigation facilities in an area. The law also stipulates
the procedure for fixing water charges, requiring that the social and economic
situation of individual farmers in each district be taken into consideration.
Both these laws provide a good basis for development efforts aimed at helping
the less fortunate Mexican farmers.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.08      Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH).  In 1947, SRH was estab-
lished as a Federal Ministry, directly responsible to the President of the
Republic, with wide powers to control and expand exploitation of the country's
water resources. Due to Government's emphasis on irrigation, SRH grew rapidly
and has now become the main agricultural organization in the country. By
1971/72, it had developed 3.0 million ha under irrigation, or 70% of the
country's total irrigated area, the remaining 1.2 million ha being privately
developed.  Plans are now almost complete which call for new irrigation
schemes to be constructed over 800,000 ha and old districts to be rehabili-
tated over 450,000 ha by 1976.
2.09      SRIi has, at headquarters level, four main subsecretaries concerned
with planning, construction, operation, and administration., but most of its
regional activities are undertaken directly by SRH-managed Irrigation Dis-
tricts. In five major river basins, however, including that of the Sinaloa
River, special executive SRH commissions are responsible for all SRH activi-
ties within their areas of jurisdiction and for such other activities as may
be assigned by other Ministries of the Government to the Commission.
2.10      The Federal Water Law (para 2.07) requires that each Irrigation
District have a Management Committee (Comite Directivo) to advise and coor-
dinate operations in the District. This committee is made up of representa-
tives of SRH, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, DAAC, the credit
institutions and private banks, the National Insurance Agency for Agricul-
ture and Livestock, Nacional Financiera (if it so requests), and farmers.
One of its important duties is to set the cropping pattern. Private farmers
and ejidos submit their individual proposals, which the Committee then com-
bines and adjusts to the overall water, technical, credit, and market con-
ditions.
2.11      Research and Extension.  While little has been done on rainfed
crops, research on irrigated crops has achieved considerable success.  How-
ever, agricultural extension services have been extremely poor. Several
Government agencies provide extension services but, except for some irrigation
districts they have been spread too thin to have any measurable impact.  To
compensate for this deficiency, private banks and farm-input suppliers provide
their own technical assistance to clients, but their activities have naturally



-5-
been concentrated on the most creditworthy farmers, leaving the others without
adequate help. In irrigated areas, SRH has set up an organization called Plan
de Mejoramiento Parcellario (PLAMEPA) to direct efforts aimed at improving
water use on farms that fall below the average efficiency of a particular
district. This constitutes an intensive extension effort. Results have been
satisfactory, particularly with ejidatarios, because PLAMEPA's assistance is
often a condition for obtaining credit from the private banks. The Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) recently granted a US$23 million loan to help
finance the first phase of a US$47 million project aimed at extending PLAMEPA's
activities over about 1 million ha of ongoing irrigation projects, also financed
with IDB assistance.
2.12      Agricultural Credit.  Farm credit is provided by both official and
private institutions. The Government's Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal S.A.
de C.V. (Banco Ejidal) lends to ejidatarios, the Banco Nacional de Credito
Agricola, S.A. (Banco Agricola) concentrates on lending to small-scale farmers,
and the Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO) lends to any farmer who has tech-
nical assistance. About 70% of agricultural lending is by these official in-
stitutions and is in the form of short-term credit. Medium- and long-term
credit from Government has become significant only in the last few years
through the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicul-
tura (FONDO) managed by the Bank of Mexico and has been mostly financed by IBRD,
IDB and USAID loans. Until 1972, less than 5% of the most needy farmers had
received credit, but Government has since announced its intention to guarantee
at least 60% of the amount of the long-term loans made by private financial
institutions to groups of ejidatarios or other small farmers. Also, in Bank
loan 910-NE, US$25 million has been reserved for lending to low income producers.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area of about 100,000 ha would include lands on both
banks of the Sinaloa River below the town of Jaina where the river emerges
from the Sierra Madre mountains onto the coastal plain of the Gulf of California
in Sinaloa State (see map 10307). About 2,000 ha of the project area lies
between Jaina and the new diversion dam at Sinaloa de Leyva. Some 46,000 ha
of project lands would be on the left bank of the Sinaloa River below Sinaloa
de Leyva between the Sinaloa River and the Arroyo San Rafael and at an eleva-
tion of more than 5 m above sea level. The balance of the project area, ap-
proximately 52,000 ha, would be on the right bank of the Sinaloa River above
the area now irrigated or susceptible to irrigation by pumps from the existing
El Fuerte Main Canal.
Soils, Topography, and Drainage
3.02      Soils in the area are young alluvial deposits of clay, clay loans,
and loams developed from the eroded volcanic rocks of the Sierra Madre moun-
tain range. About 70% of the area is covered with a clayish-type soil and
the rest with a lighter, sandier type, lying mostly along the stream beds.
The soils are fertile, of good depth, generally non-saline, and with good
water-holding capacity (see Annex 2). The standards for classification as to
suitability for sustained irrigation have been patterned after those suggested
by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, and over 80% of the land would fall in
Class I or II, demonstrating that it is highly suited to irrigation.
3.03      Project lands lie between 5 m and 45 m above sea level and have a
general gradient of about 2 to 6 m per km to the sea. The left bank is es-
sentially a flat plain, while the right bank area is more undulating in a
north-south direction, but no slopes in any direction would exceed about 1%.
3.04      About 800 ha lying at a low elevation in the left bank area are
moderately saline, indicating poor local drainage conditions. The balance
of the project area, however, has generally satisfactory drainage.
Climate
3.05      The climate is tropical semi-arid.  Average precipitation isK,40l mm,
falling mainly between July and September.  Annual temperature averages about
25°C, with monthly averages varying from 18°C in January to 31°C in July.
The maximum temperature is 44°C, reached occasionally in September. Light
frosts may occur in January. The mean annual pan evaporation is 2,400 mm.
Population
3.06      The total population of the project area, including the two main
cities of Guasave and Sinaloa de Leyva, is about 200,000. Annual growth rate
is estimated at about 6%, but about 2.5% of that figure can be attributed to
immigration by people attracted to the area by the employment opportunities
opened up by agricultural development on other irrigation projects, booming



- 7 -
agro-business, and other secondary economic activities. The population den-
sity in the project area averages 45 persons per km2 and the literacy rate
is about 70%. The farm population totals about 12,000 families, of which
about 10,900 are ejidatarios and the balance private farmers. Families
average about 5.7 members, of whom 3.3 are in the working age group.
Transportation, Processing, and Marketing
3.07      The international highway linking Mexico City with Nogales, Arizona,
passes through the project area in a north-south direction, and, combined with
other paved roads, provides a basic road network suitable for distributing
farm inputs and for removing produce to other parts of Mexico or for export.
The Pacific railway, again linking Mexico City with Nogales, also runs through
the project area, while marine transportation is available at Topolabambo and
at the major west coast port of Mazatlan. Four small airports within the proj-
ect area serve local needs, and regularly scheduled air service is available
at Culiacan to other points in Mexico and to international destinations.
3.08      There are numerous cotton gins, rice mills, storage facilities for
grains, vegetable packing plants, tomato processing facilities a-d the like
located in or adjacent to the project area. There are also many transporta-
tion companies providing refrigerated or non-refrigerated trucking services.
The existing facilities are generally adequate for present production and
have some surplus capacity. However, increased production due to the proj-
ect would require some enlargement, which would be provided primarily by
the private sector.
3.09      Marketing of agricultural produce is relatively well organized.
Commodities such as cereals, soya and beans are handled through the private
sector, though Government, by means of the Compania Nacional de Subsistencias
Populares (CONASUPO) acts as a residual buyer at guaranteed prices that are
reviewed annually. Except for maize, the guaranteed price has in the past
been below the free market price, as guaranteed prices have been kept constant
over longer periods. Vegetables for the local market are also distributed
through private channels, while vegetables for export to the American market
are handled by the Confederacion de Asociaciones Agricolas del Estado de
Sinaloa (CAADES). This is an association of larger growers who have the
necessary technical expertise to produce and package vegetables of a quality
that will meet the demanding standards of the American market. This market
is limited, trade contacts and timing are important, and processing and
handling facilities need to be well organized to be successful. It is for
these reasons that the trade is in relatively few hands.
Land Holdings and Tenure
3.10      In the project area, approximately 39,600 ha are privately owned and
61,300 ha are held by 74 ejidos. The average size of private holding is 34 ha,
while for ejidatarios, it is 5.6 ha. Annex 3 gives further details of the
ejido system of farming, an analysis of holding size of the ejidos and pri-
vate farmers, the changes which would be induced by the project, and informa-
tion on the Agrarian Reform Law and the new Federal Water Law.



3.11      Under the Agrarian Reform Law all holdings of a single owner in
excess of 100 ha of irrigated land are subject to expropriation for redis-
tribution to ejidos. The new Federal Water Law states that when a Federal
Irrigation District is established, the maximum size holding of newly irri-
gated land is 20 ha and the minimum new allotment of land per ejidatario,
10 ha. The lands above Sinaloa de Leyva and those on both banks of the river,
which are irrigated by the diversion of surface water below Sinaloa de Leyva
included in the existing Irrigation District No. 63 are considered as cur-
rently irrigated lands and thus not subject to expropriation under the pro-
visions concerning newly irrigated lands. Certain lands lying outside the
boundaries of District 63 have also established their status as currently
irrigated by use of privately drilled wells.
3.12      The owners of lands with established water rights would have certain
rights to retain their holdings up to 100 ha. However, under project condi-
tions, SRH would assune complete control of all project water facilities and
thus be in a strong bargaining position in dealing with present owners of
irrigated land and their rights. SRH proposes that, to the extent possible,
the provisions of the new Federal Water Law would be applied, and present
private irrigated holdings would be limited to a maximum of 20 ha units.
Application of this principle would require negotiation with the present
owners. Presently irrigated ejidal land is mostly in units less than 10 ha
per ejidatario and no effort would be made to adjust the size of such exist-
ing holdings.  A new irrigation district would be created to embrace the
entire project area exclusive of the existing District 63 (para 3.11).  All
privately held lands not having present irrigation rights would be expropri-
ated under the new Federal Water Law.  Compensation would be paid either in
cash or by a reallotment of land up to a maximum of a 20 ha irrigated unit.
The new owners would be obliged to pay the difference in appraised value be-
tween the new irrigated and their old holding. Ejidos not now irrigated
would be reorganized, according to the provisions of the new Federal Water
Law, on the basis of 10 ha per ejidatario. Any lands becoming available
from the private owners would be used to form new ejidos. The exact pattern
of future holdings will depend on the outcome of the negotiations with pre-
sent irrigated land owners and might deviate from the most likely estimate
which is given in Annex 3. It is anticipated that about 23,400 ha would be
made available to form new ejidos thus increasing the number of ejidatarios
on the project from about 10,900 to 13,200. The number of private owners
would slightly reduce as some small holders may elect to sell, but their hold-
ing size reduced.
Present Use of ProJect Lands
3.13      Of the 100,000 ha in the project area, some 50,600 ha are cleared
and of these, about 45,000 ha have some type of irrigation service, either
through surface water diversions, extraction of groundwater, or a combina-
tion of the two. Approximately 5,500 ha are cultivated under dry-farm con-
ditions, and the balance, mostly on the right bank, is still under bush and
used only for livestock.



- 9 -
3.14      Because of the inefficiency of the present irrigation system and
the lack of dependable surface water flows, only about 48,000 ha are cropped
in an average year. Thus, only about 48% of the nominal project area produces
one crop in a year. More than 15 different crops are grown, with rice being
a major one and covering about 10% of the harvested area. Rice can be suc-
cessfully grown under present conditions as its cropping season more or less
coincides with the seasonally available flood flows in the Sinaloa River.
The present rice area is concentrated on the left bank in the upper part of
the project area where surface irrigation water is most dependable. Other
significant crops are safflower, 11%; maize, 11%; and wheat, 19%.
Present Irrigation Works
3.15      The present irrigation system consists of four canals on the left
bank and two canals on the right bank, diverting surface water flows of the
Sinaloa River and its tributary, the Ocoroni Arroyo. Approximately 280 wells
on the left bank, about 160 of which are for agricultural use, and 230 wells
on the right bank are used to supplement the surface water supply. An aver-
age of 22,000 ha are served by Irrigation District No. 63. The balance of
the partially irrigated area, or 23,000 ha, is served by surface water diver-
sions above Sinaloa de Leyva and by groundwater.
3.16      The two existing surface water systems of District 63 on the left
bank head at two separate temporary diversion dams on the Sinaloa River and
were not planned to serve the entire area. The two canals, Burrion and Bamoa,
were privately constructed over a period of years and many extensions and new
laterals have been built on an ad hoc basis. Since SRI took over the system
in the 1950's, much has been done to increase the reliability and the capac-
ity of the system, but all the structures are old and in need of replacement.
The diversion dams, made of woven mats and hand-placed rocks, are partially
destroyed almost every year by floods, and repairs must await low flows.
Consequently, crop damage results when water cannot be effectively diverted
back into the canals.
3.17      On the right bank, the two small surface water systems both divert
from the Ocoroni Arroyo. The Trinidad Canal has a temporary diversion near
Naranjo while the Florida diverts lower down on the Ocoroni, but can also
draw some water from the Sinaloa. The condition of the systems is similar
to that prevailing on the left bank.
3.18      All existing wells were privately developed and represent varying
standards of construction. Some pumps are powered by electric motors but most
are by internal combustion engines, either diesel or gasoline. Annual pumping
rates, at about 180 Mm3 on the left bank and 130 Mm3 on the right, have caused
a continual decline in static water levels, particularly on the left bank.
The natural stream channels provide whatever drainage there is since there is
no constructed drainage system on either side of the river. Lands now cul-
tivated have been cleared and various amounts of leveling or smoothing have
been done: rice paddy areas have been carefully leveled, while lands for
other crops have had less treatment.
3.19      The project works would completely supplant the existing irrigation
systems, although any portion that could be incorporated into the new system
would be used.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The proposed project would develop intensive irrigated agriculture
on 100,000 ha on both banks of the Sinaloa River in Sinaloa State. Works to
be constructed under the project are detailed in Annex 4 and are summarized
below. They would consist of:
(a)  a dam and storage reservoir on the Sinaloa River at the
BaSurato site, with an initial storage capacity of 2,900
Mm and a minimum provision for adding hydroelectric power
facilities at a future date, an access road to the site
and a camp to house construction and operating personnel;
(b)  a diversion dam at the Sinaloa de Leyva site to divert water
to main canals on each side of the river;
(c)  a concrete-lined irrigation distribution system, consisting
of main canals, laterals, and sublaterals, to distribute
water to blocks of about 60 ha each; devices would be in-
stalled so that deliveries of water could be measured;
(d)  wells to feed the irrigation distribution system to augment
the surface water supply;
(e)  a complete drainage system, consisting of main and secondary
drains, to remove excess surface water;
(f)  roads along canals and drains for operation and maintenance
and for use by farmers, supplemented by other road connections;
(g)  houses for ditch riders, a telephone network, gauging sta-
tions, and project facilities to serve as operating head-
quarters; and
(h)  land clearing and smoothing to the degree necessary.
In addition, the project would provide equipment and materials to be used
for operation and maintenance purposes, and it would also finance an inten-
sive extension program in the initial 4-year period to insure proper use of
water. All project works are expected to be completed by June 30, 1980. A
construction schedule is presented in Annex 5. SRH would have overall re-
sponsibility for project implementation.



- 11 -
Water Supply, Requirements, and Utilization
4.02      The project would derive its water supply from the flows of the
Sinaloa River as controlled by Bacurato Reservoir, augmented by groundwater
pumping. The average annual flows of surface water are about 1,225 Mm3 and
groundwater use would be arbitrarily limited to 100 Mm3 per year. Cropping
patterns and associated water demands have been developed for six different
levels of cropping intensity, ranging from one crop each year per ha without
rice, to 40% double cropping including rice. It is possible to choose a
cropping pattern for the succeeding 12-month period based on water physically
in storage at Bacurato reservoir on October 1 of each year. Analysis of use
of water indicates that only in three years out of 27 was there insufficient
supply to meet the requirements of the minimum cropping pattern, but short-
ages in those years are considered acceptable. A weighted average of crop-
ping choices indicates that 126,000 ha could be planted. In order to protect
the project water supply against periods of drought, criteria would be estab-
lished by SRH and the Management Committee of the Irrigation District to relate
the cropping pattern to be followed for the following 12 months to water in
storage on October 1 of each year (see Annex 6 for suggested criteria).
4.03      The project depends on use of groundwater as well as of surface
water to insure an adequate supply. In a series of years of good surface
supply, however, there would be a tendency to forego use of the groundwater
in the hope that in the following year there would again be an adequate sur-
face supply. SRH will develop criteria as to when groundwater pumping would
be started and stopped so as to protect the project's water supply. Annex 6
discusses possible criteria based on content of Baocurato Reservoir.
4.04      The project would fully utilize the available flows of the Sinaloa
River, but in addition to the demand for water to serve irrigation, an amount
of 30 Mm3 annually has been allowed in the water supply for other purposes
such as domestic or industrial. There is no presently defined use of such
water nor are benefits claimed in the economic evaluation for these purposes.
To protect the project, an assurance was obtained that no depletions to flows
of the Sinaloa River that would adversely affect the project would be allowed
without specific concurrence of the Bank.
4.05      Bacurato Dam would be constructed with minimum provisions to allow
a hydroelectric power plant to be installed at some future date. Operation
of such a plant could, however, adversely affect the irrigation function of
the project unless reregulating facilities were constructed to make water
releases for power compatible with irrigation requirements. An assurance
therefore was obtained froin Government at negotiations that, if a power
plant were constructed, water release would be made strictly in accordance
with the needs for irrigation with incidental power produced unless other
facilities for making the releases compatible are constructed.



- 12 -
Status of Engineering
4.06      Adequate preliminary designs have been made for Bacurato Dam, the
Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam, main canals, and related structures. Studies
of the irrigation distribution systems, drains, and land leveling have been
made on topography on a scale of 1 to 5,000 with a contour interval of 1 m.
Contracts have been awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement for the Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam and the first 17 km of
left bank main canal, but final designs and tender documents have yet to be
prepared by SRH on the balance of the work.
Cost Estimates
4.07      Project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized
overieaf:



- 13 -
---Millions Mex$---    ----US$ Millions----   %
Local    FE    Total   Local   FE /4 Total   FE
Civil Works Under ICB
Bacurato Dam                  189.7  137.0   326.7   15.18  10.96  26.14   42
Sinaloa de Leyva Div. Dam       9.8    6.5    16.3    0.78   0.52   1.30   40
Irrigation System             252.4  168.1   420.5   20.19  13.45  33.64   40
Wells                          11.3    3.8    15.1    0.90   0.31   1.21   25
Drains and Roads               68.0   44.9   112.9    5.44   3.59   9.03   40
0 & M Facilities                6.8    -         6.8    0.54      -    0.54    0
Subtotal                   538.0  360.3   898.3   43.03  28.83  71.86   40
Civil Works Under Government
Procedures
Land Clearing and Leveling  117.0   46.0   163.0    9.36   3.68  13.04   28
Civil Works under
Negotiated Contracts
Access Road and Construc-
tion Camp                   34.3       -    34.3    2.74  (0.59)  2.74    -
Total Civil Works          689.3  406.3  1095.6   55.13  32.51  87.64   37
Equipment and Materials /1
Furnished by SRH (not ICB)  123.9    -        123.9    9.91  (1.91)  9.91    -
Purchase by SRH (ICB)           0.1    5.0       5.1    0.01   0.40   0.41   98
Operation and Maintenance
(Not ICB)                    21.9    -       21.9    1.75  (0.88)  1.75    -
Engineering and Supervision   127.8    -         127.8   10.22      -   10.22    0
Rights of Way                   104.5    -       104.5    8.36      -    8.36    0
Contingencies (10% physical,
10% Price /2)                 156.8   92.5   249.3   12.54   7.40  19.94   37
Total Project Without
Extension Services           1224.3  503.8  1728.1   97.92  40.31 138.23   29
Extension Services               17.6    -        17.6    1.40      -    1.40    0
Total with Extension
Services                       1241.9  503.8  1745.7   99.32  40.31 139.63   29
Interest During
Construction /3                  -    75.0    75.0       -      6.00   6.00
Total with IDC                 1241.9  578.8  1820.7   99.32  46.31 145.63
/1   For explanation of breakdown of items see Annex 8.
/2   Weighted average, considering investment schedule and allowances for
escalation.
/3   On Bank loan only.
/4   Amounts in brackets,totaling US$3.38 million, indicate the estimated
foreign exchange components for items not financed by the proposed loan;
they are not included in the column total.



- 14 -
4.08      Quantities of work items estimated for each feature have been de-
:ermined either from designs or from study of the detailed topography. Costs
were based on information provided by the construction division of SRH, which
maintains a current list of unit prices for all categories of work by geo-
graphical area. Contingencies of 10% have been added for physical aspects
on civil works items and equipment and materials purchases, and 10% for esca-
lation of prices. Cost overruns have occurred in other irrigation projects,
due largely to major changes in engineering designs after implementation
started, but such revisions are not likely with this project. The foreign
exchange component of civil works has been estimated on the basis of deprecia-
tion of heavy equipment considered appropriate during the period of construction.
Financing
4.09      The proposed Bank loan of US$47 million would finance the estimated
US$46.3 million foreign exchange cost, (including US$6.0 million for interest
on the Bank loan during construction) plus US$0.7 million to meet one-half of
the cost of the intensive four-year extension activity. The balance of the
amount required for the project would be financed under Government budget to
SRH. The loan would be made for 25 years with five years' grace, at the cur-
rent Bank interest rate to Nacional Financiera, S.A., a Government agency
empowered to receive foreign loans and credits. The Government would be the
guarantor and would cover the foreign exchange risk. Following a request by
Government at negotiations the closing date has been extended to December 31,
1980 to allow adequate time to complete the agriculture extension (PLAMEPA)
program, since this can only be fully effective after water is available.
The grace period has not been extended since the PLAMEPA program is only a
small portion of the project costs and the flow of project benefits should
still permit the repayment pattern that was originally envisaged. An appro-
priate share of contracts let under approved procedures prior to the date of
loan signing (para 4.15) would be financed, up to a maximum of US$1.0 million
of loan funds.
Procurement
4.10      Contracts for the principal features of construction work would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in accord-
ance with the Bank guideline for procurement. Mexico has a well developed and
competent contracting industry capable of doing all types of civil works at
competitive prices and only rarely is a bid submitted from a non-Mexican firm.
However, in order to make practicable the participation of international con-
tractors, civil works would be grouped into contracts having a minimum value
of Mex$ 20 million (US$1.6 million) insofar as possible. An assurance that
this would be done was obtained during negotiations.



- 15 -
4.11      On previous Bank loans for irrigation projects, up to 20% of the
total value of civil works contracts could be awarded to contractors on a
local bid or negotiated contract basis and still be eligible for financing.
This provision covered the performance of small jobs and SRH has used it to
accomplish much of the land clearing and leveling on the Bank-financed Rio
Colorado Irrigation Project (527-ME). Local groups of farmers have been or-
ganized into partnerships to contract land leveling on small tracts up to
100 ha in size, using their own farm machinery. The work provides income
to the farmers pending completion of the irrigation facilities, but, more
importantly, it trains them in proper leveling procedures and prepares them
to maintain their fields in proper condition. SRH has provided engineering
services and supervision of such contracts. Since there is proven merit in
the procedure, the Government would award contracts for such activity under
its standard procedures. Also, to expedite the construction of civil works
under ICB, small jobs which because of timing or nature of the work cannot logi-
cally be included in the major contracts, would be done under ordinary Govern-
ment contracting procedures up to maximum value of each contract of one million
pesos provided the aggregate amount of these contracts does not exceed 20 mil-
lion pesos.
4.12      The normal practice for SRH is to let contracts under local bidding
procedures for supply in bulk of common building materials such as cement
and reinforcing steel. It then furnishes such items to civil works contrac-
tors and the cost of such items is not included in the bids submitted by
the contractors. However, other items readily available in Mexico, such as
fabricated gates and structural steel shapes, are included in the civil
works contracts on a furnish-and-install basis and are included in the
contractor's bids and paid for as a part of the civil works contracts.
Special equipment not available in Mexico such as large size electric motors,
certain types of valves and gate hoists are procured by SRH under inter-
national bidding procedures and paid for under separate supply contracts.
Equipment for operation and maintenance purposes such as tractors, trucks,
draglines etc. are available in Mexico and are purchased under local bidding
procedures. Annex 8 gives further details on equipment and materials to be
purchased by SRH under local bidding, and that which would be purchased under
international bids. The items to be financed under the loan would be pay-
ment to civil works contractors and the GIF value of equipment purchased
under international bidding.
Expenditure Schedule
4.13      Annex 9 gives a schedule of annual expenditures for project imple-
mentation.
Disbursements
4.14      Loan categories proposed and the basis for disbursement are as
follows:



-16 -
Total       Loan       Basis for
Cost       Amount    Disbursement
--US$ million----
I.   Civil works
Let under ICB                      70.26) 84.9 32.5        38% of payments
Let under local bidding            13.04)                  to contractors
Small contract                      1.60
II.  Equipment purchased under ICB       0.4            0.4     100% of CIF
III. Intensive extension service         1.4            0.7     50% of costs as
(PLAMEPA)                                                  certified by SRH
IV.  Interest during construction        6.0            6.0     100% of actual
costs
V.   Unallocated (contingencies)        15.0            7.4
47.0
In the event of cost overruns in the first four categories, funds would be
shifted from the unallocated category to increase the amounts as appropriate.
Any funds remaining at the close of disbursement would be cancelled. An es-
timated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 10. Because of the overlap
of closing date with the grace period (para 4.09) disbursements would continue
after the expiration of the grace period.
Advance Contracting
4.15      The Government has recognized the urgency of initiating construc-
tion work on this project. Consequently, in 1972, SRH negotiated a contract
for constructing the access road to Bacurato site. Costs under this contract
and the contract to be negotiated for a construction camp at the site are not
recommended for disbursement. SRH has followed acceptable international bid-
ding procedures in seeking bids in 1973 for constructing the Sinaloa de Leyva
Diversion Dam and the first 17 km of the left bank main canal. Mex$10.0 million
has been budgeted for payments to contractors on each of these contracts for
calendar year 1973, and, assuming a loan were signed by January 1, 1974, a
total of Mex$20 million (US$1.6 million) would be earned by the contractors.
At the recommended disbursement percentage of 38%, the disbursement obliga-
tion for contracts let before loan signing would be about US$1.0 million but
up to this amount be accepted as eligible for disbursement.
Accounts and Auditing
4.16      SRH would maintain accounts so that all expenditures related to
the project could be identified. Accounts are subject to internal and external
audit by the Secretaria de la Presidencia, Direccion de Inversiones, and the
Secretaria del Patrimonio Nacional, Direccion de Contractos y Presupuestos.
Such audits are conducted periodically with no set interval between audits.
An assurance was given at negotiations that the Government would maintain
separate accounts to reflect the financial situation of the project, make
available to the Bank promptly such accounts as audited in accordance with the
laws of the guarantor and furnish to the Bank such pertinent information con-
cerning such accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Administration
5.01      The project would be administered by the Commission del Rio Fuerte
(CRF), which.is the special commission responsible for all SRH and certain
other activities in the project area (para 2.09). It would have direct re-
sponsibility for construction, operation and maintenance, and agricultural
development under the project. It would also design and supervise most works,
although SRIH headquarters would be responsible for preparing designs and ten-
der documents for major facilities such as Bacurato Dam, Sinaloa de Leyva Dam,
the main canals, and any structure requiring coordination with another Ministry
of the Government such as a bridge for a major highway or a railroad crossing.
The CRF is now successfully operating the El Fuerte and the Carrizzo projects,
both of which it constructed, and it is quite capable of handling the proposed
Sinaloa project. The general organization of SRH is shown on chart 7434 and
illustrates the relationship of the Commission to the Secretary and to the
balance of the SRH organization.  Chart 7435 shows the organization of CRF.
The Secretary of SRH is the president of the Commission. The top local offi-
cial, with headquarters in Los Moches, is the Executive Officer.
5.02      Agricultural development under the project would be managed by the
Management Committee (Comite Directivo) (on which farmers are represented
(para 2.10). It would fix the cropping pattern, formulate and foster credit
plans, promote farmers' organizations, and periodically consider and recom-
mend the water charges to be levied.
Operation and Mfaintenance
5.03      Operation and maintenance of the completed Sinaloa Project would be
assigned to the CRF subsection dealing with operation and management of Irri-
gation Districts Nos. 63, 75, and El Carrizo. Irrigation District No. 63 em-
braces the area served by existing SRH facilities and a new district would be
created to cover the entire project area, exclusive of existing District 63.
For legal purposes, there would be two districts, but for practical purposes,
the new district would incorporate all the area and functions of District 63.
Headquarters for the District would remain in Guasave. After full development
is reached, operation and maintenance costs are estimated at Mex$36.5 million
per year (US$29 per ha) (Annex 11).
Agricultural Services
5.04      Training. Mexico has many schools and institutions devoted to agri-
cultural education and training. These are considered adequate and no special
additional training is included in the project (see Annex 12 for description
of facilities).
5.05      Extension. Existing extension services in Mexico provide only one
extension worker for an average of 1,600 farmers, which is too meager to be
effective, particularly on irrigation schemes.  SRH has developed its own
extension service, PLAN1EPA (para 2.11), which provides one extension agent



- 18 -
for every 190 farmers, primarily to advise on the proper use of water and
good cropping practices. It is proposed that during a. four year period PLAMEPA
activities be considered a part of the development cost: of the project, with
the Bank participating in its financing in order to underline the importance
of this work. During negotiations, an assurance was given that adequate exten-
sion services would be provided.  Estimated cost of the program is Mex$18 mil-
lion (US$1.4 million). Details are in Annex 12.
5.06      Credit.  Annex 12 describes the various banking institutions that
provide agricultural credit. Banco Agropecuario de Noroeste is the off"icial
Bank which is expected to handle mst of the credit needs of project farmers.
Current rates of interest for short-term credit are 10.8% p.a. and from 7.6%
to 11 .0% for long-term credit. Under the USAID- arnd IDB-supported projects
for low income producers, the long-term interest rate is now 7.6%, but it
originally started in 1963 at 5.5% and has increased steadily since. Under
the IBRD-supported projects, interest rates to low income producers is 7.6%
but varies from 10 to 12% on loans to commercial farmers.  At full develop-
ment, the credit required for annual production would be on the order of
Mex$420 million. During negotiations, an assurance was given that the Govern-
ment would make its best effort to make available, promptlv as needed, medium
and long-term agricultural credit on reasonable terms to farmers in the project
area.
Water and Development Charges
5.07      The new Federal Water Law of 1971 requires SRH, with the advice of
DAAC and the Management Committee of each District (Comite Directivo), to
carry out socio-economic studies to determina appropriate charges for the
services rendered in each irrigation distric:. Water rates must also then
take into account the recoverable portiou of investment in the project and the
annual expenditures involved in administration and operation and maintenance.
Charges may be varied on the basis of quantities of water used, the areas
irrigated and the crops grown. Water rates are required to be reviewed period-
ically, on the basis of data from socio-economic studies.  Irrigation service
may be suspended for failure to pay water rates, or compulsory proceedings may
be instituted through the Federal Treasury to collect outstanding charges.
SRH proposes to establish a dual-type water charge, one component to consist
of a per ha charge sufficiently high to provide revenues to meet annual re-
current expenses, and a second component related to voltume of water used and
crop grown. The total charge would be sufficient to pay operation and main-
tenance costs and as much of the capital investment as appears reasonable on
the basis of the socio-economic studies required to be made under the Federal
W4ater Law. During negotiations, assurances were given that the Government
would (a) assess and collect water charges on the basis of the ability of
water users to pay and the need to maintain an inventive for them to make best
use of the land and water available to them, as necessary to cover all the
operation and maintenance costs of the project and as much as practicable of
the investment; (b) carry out the initial socio-economic study by June 30, 1979,
or such later date as may be agreed with the Bank, to determine the ability of
water users to pay; (c) periodically review such study with idea to revise



- 19 -
charges, if appropriate; and (d) promptly give the Bank an opportunity to
comment on conclusions and recommendations of the socio-economic studies after
each is completed. In judging the investment cost to be repaid the objective
should be to recover the investment cost in as short a time as possible (see
paras 6.07 - 6.09 for discussion of farmers income, capacity to repay water
charges and possible recovery of investment).
VI. PRODUCrION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      The proposed cropping pattern would vary from year to year and
would be influenced by such factors as the availability of water, labor and
markets. For instance, marketing outlets rather than water would limit the
production of vegetables for export, while the availability of labor at
harvesting would limit cotton production. The area annually cropped at full
development would range from 100,000 ha to 140,000 ha. A weighted average of
126,000 ha, has been assumed, or a cropping intensity of 1.26 over the
100,000 ha served by the irrigation facilities. The average cropping pattern
is summarized in paragraph 6.03.
6.02      Yields would increase as a result of the increases in the water
supply and the technical assistance provided to farmers. Yield estimates are
based on three-year averages in the project area, and in 17 neighboring pro-
jects having an adequate water supply. They are less than 75% of the level
achieved under research conditions and are considered realistic. Estimates
of yields from without project conditions to full development with the
project are shown in Annex 13. The per ha yields under project conditions are
given in paragraph 6.03.
6.03      Overall production in the project area would increase from about
88,000 tons to about 475,000 tons. Annex 15 details the production costs by
crop with and without the project, while Annex 14 shows the net value of pro-
duction with and without the project and the increment attributed to the
project. This shows a net annual production value with the project at full
development of Mex$412 million, a value without the project of Mex$44 million,
and an incremental net value of Mex$368 million. Since provision of water is
the limiting factor on present project conditions, the entire increment from
the present situation to the project situation is attributed to the project.
Production data is summarized below.



- 20 -
Net
Incremental
Crop            Without Project           With Project            Production
Area  Yield   Product   Area    Yield  Product  Product    Value
ha  Tons/ha  000 Tons   ha    Tons/ha 000 Tons 000 Tons IJS$'000
Beans       2,000   0.8         1.7    14,000    1.6    22.4      20.7      1,560
Vege-
tables /1   1,500  12.0       18.0      6,000   20.0   120.0    102.0    14,088
Sesame      2,000   0.5        1.0      3,000    1.0      3.0      2.0        244
Soybeans    5,000   1.1        5.5    26,000    2.1    54.6       49.1      3,646
Corn        5,000   1.1        5.5      9,000    3.0    27.0      21.5        539
Rice        4,000   2.0        8.0      7,000    4.0    28.0      20.0        912
Cotton      5,000   1.2        6.0    17,000    2.5    42.5       36.5      3,372
Safflower   5,000   0.6        3.0    10,000    1.7    17.0       14.0      1,126
Chickpeas   3,000   0.6        1.8      3,000    1.7      5.1      3.3        329
Sorghum     5,000   1.5        7.5      9,000    4.5    40.5      33.0        668
2lelons       500   8.0        4.0      1,000   16.0    16.0      12.0      1,283
Wheat       9,000   2.0       18.0    18,000    3.5    63.0       45.0      1,375
Alfalfa and
fruits      1,000   8.0        8.0      3,000   12.0    36.0      28.0        312
Total      48,000             88.0   126,000            475.1    387.1    29,454
Cropping intensity %:                     126
/1 Tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, string beans, green peppers.
Markets and Prices
6.04      The volume of project-produced cotton would be very small in rela-
tion to Mexico's total production and would have no significant impact on
local or international commodity prices. About 60% of the cotton lint pro-
duced in Mexico is exported, mainly to Europe and Japan. World prices are
expected to decline by about 15% by 1980, but this has been recognized in the
economic analysis. Conversely, internal demand for cotton seed is increasing,
consequently, cotton seed price is likely to rise and compensate for the de-
cline in cotton lint prices. Annex 16 gives an analysis of the outlook for
cotton prepared by the Economic Analysis and Projections Department of the
Bank.
6.05      Sinaloa State is the main producer of the fruits and vegetables
exported to the U.S. In fact, a number of these products, including tomatoes,
onions, green peppers, cucumbers, and string beans, account for more than half
the amount consumed annually in the U.S., and, because of high quality and low
production costs, they will continue to take a growing share of that market.
It has been calculated that if such exports continue to grow at the present
rate, they will saturate the U.S. market before 1975. Therefore, Mexican
producer and marketing organizations in Sinaloa State have started to exercise
voluntary restraint on production in order to avoid having the U.S. impose
quotas. The production of fruits and vegetables given in paragraph 6.03 is



- 21 -
based on a study of the U.S. market by the Economic Analysis and Projections
Department of the Bank and recognized production of these commodities in other
parts of Mexico. About 70% of the tomatoes and 80% of the melons and other
vegetables would be exported to the U.S. and the remainder would be consumed
in Mexico where there is a growing demand for fruits and vegetables (para
2.03). The private farmers have been instrumental in developing the foreign
markets for the fruits and vegetables and enjoy the higher incomes resulting
from such efforts. To foster a wider distribution of income in the project
area, an assurance was given by Government that they will make their best
efforts to assist farmers in the marketing of higher valued crops.
6.06      Although, under the Government guaranteed prices, production of
corn would not be attractive as project irrigation costs are not compensated
by the increase in yields, ejidatarios are likely to continue to produce this
crop on e:isting areas for subsistence. For sorghum and rice, Mexico will
probably be self-sufficient but for the other crops, Mexico is expected to
remain a net importer and project production would be marketed within Mexico.
Current farmgate prices reflect this deficit and are projected to remain at
their present level. Annex 17 further discusses markets and prices.
Farmers' Income
6.07      The average farm income for both ejidatarios and private farmers
will be raised substantially, but individual income levels will vary with
farm size and cropping pattern. Since as many as 15 different crops will be
grown on the project, and each individual farmer would probably be involved
in only three or four of such crops, average per ha net income (after paying
taxes and production costs but before any water charges) have been derived
as given in Annex 18. In order to reflect the relative weights of various
crops, 1,000 ha units have been analyzed both for ejidatarios and private
farmers. The only difference between the two sample budgets is in the mix
of crops assumed for the two groups of farmers. The final income distribu-
tion will depend, in particular, on each farmer's area under vegetables, which
yield much higher returns than any other crop. As speed and extent of the
results of the Government measures of organizational and marketing assistance
to the ejidatarios are, of course, difficult to predict with precision, the
possible income incidence of the project is projected as a range in the fol-
lowing table. The "most likely" result is based on the assumption that the
ejidatarios as a group will account for about 20 percent of the total vegetable
production from the project (see Annex 18). The maximum spread reflects a
situation in which the ejidatarios would not produce any vegetables at all
while the minimum spread represents a situation in which they would, in addi-
tion to the 20 percent, produce an additional 1,000 ha of vegetables for the
domestic market.
!



- 22 -
INCOME INCIDENCE OF PROJECT /1
(Mex.$ per annum)
Incremental Income
Present Farm   Maximum      Most Likely      Maximum
Income      Spread         Result         Spread
Ejidatario (10 has)            2,500 /2   18,750         24,560         30,000
Private farmer (20 ha)       28,750      236,000        187,000        187,000
/1   After taxes and before water charges.  Since appraisal, prices of grains
have increased substantially, which would not only raise the income of
the ejidatario in absolute terms but also reduce his income spread to
the private farmers in relative terms.
/2   Most of the ejidatarios are also employed as rural laborers and may be
earning Mex$ 2,500 to 5,000 in addition to farm income, depending on number
of days employed.
6.08      Water Charges.  The assurances outlined in paragraph 5.07 require
that, subject to ability to pay and maintain an incentive, water users pay
all operation and maintenance costs, estimated at Mex$325/ha per annum (see
Snnex 11) and as much as practicable of the investment cost. Mexican law allows
water charges to be varied on the basis of area, volume of water or crops but
requires that the same basis be applied to all users. SRH intends to link
the investment cost recovery charge to water volume used and the specific crops.
Iligher rates may be levied for higher value crops than for lower value crops.
However, the actual charges will only be determined after completion of a
detailed socio-economic study prescribed by the Federal Water Law.
6.09      Repayment of Investment.  The degree of recovery of the project's
investment costs can only be estimated with accuracy once the socio-economic
studies have been completed. It depends on (a) the farmer's net income after
meeting all crop production costs, taxes and project operation and maintenance
charges less (b) the amount he needs to cover his family living costs and have
a reasonable incentive to continue irrigated farming. Items under (a) can be
calculated but those under (b) are matters of judgement. The Mexican authori-
ties have suggested that a sum equivalent to twice the regional minimum salary
(Mex$18,750) would be an appropriate subsistence income. Looking at the re-
sult from the point of view of equity, twice the regional minimum represents
the approximate cut-off point for the lowest 40% of personal incomes in Mexico.
If subsistence requirements were deducted from the net farm income, the remain-
ing residual income would be available for possible repayment of investment
charges. Present calculations indicate that in the case of an ejidatario with
10 ha, the residual income would be about Mex$ 5,000 or Mex$ 500/ha, a figure
which also assumes that the ejidatario would grow relatively few vegetables.
It is unrealistic to assume that all the residual income could be collected to
recover investment costs, but conversely higher incomes may be expected as a
result of higher value crops providing higher revenues. Hence it is possible'



- 23 -
that higher charges than those indicated could be levied without damaging the
ejidatario's incentive to participate in the project. Calculations also indi-
cate that the private farmer should be able to afford to pay substantially
higher charges since he will be growing the bulk of the high value export
vegetables. Hence there are a range of possible charges. If, for example,
all farmers were to pay Mex$ 500/ha as a charge to recover investment costs
Government revenues would be Mex$ 50 million annually, or enough to recover
investment costs over a period of 32 years without interest. During negotia-
tions, the Government representatives indicated that present Governmental
thinking is to recover only the investment cost, without interest. The period
of recovery would be governed by the payment capacity determined in the socio-
economic studies. It should be noted that in addition to the direct water
charges, the taxes on incremental crop production would produce annual revenues
of approximately Mex $39 million per year, which would serve to substantially
increase total returns to Government.



- 24 -
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Benefits derived from the project would be the increase of income
and employment due to increas; in cropped area from an average of 48,000 ha
at present to-an average of 12,O000 ha annually at full development (para
6.01). At full development, ab,'ut three years after completion of project
works, the annual net value 9o production from the project, valued in eco-
nomic terms (expressed in-45172 prices), would be Mex$458 million (US$36.6
million), comparfd-t-o Mex$74 million (US$5.9 million) under future conditions
without the project.
7.02      The useful life of the project facilities would be almost indefinite,
but for analysis purposes it has been assumed at 40 years. Over this period,
the economic rate of return would be 17%. To measure the project's sensitivi-
ty to deviations, several alternatives have been considered: (a) construction
period extended from five to six years, investment costs increased by 15%, and
net incremental benefits starting in the sixth instead of the fifth year; (b)
benefits decreased by 25%; and (c) full labor costs valued at the official
salary rate. None of the above mentioned alternatives has resulted in an
internal rate of return of less than 12%, which is considered as the oppor-
tunity costs of capital for similar activities in Mexico. Annex 19 gives
further details on the project economic evaluation.
7.03      About 14,300 farmers would be included in the project, 13,200 of
which would be ejidatarios and the rest private farmers. The number of pri-
vate farmers would remain the same as under pre-project conditions and about
2300 new individuals would become ejidatarios. The project would require
15,460 man-years of employment annually, while the existing demand is 3,230
man-years 1/.
7.04      Since most of the project products are either for export or for
use as import substitutes for which deficiencies are expected in the future,
the project is considered to make a valuable contribution to Mexico's balance
of payments.
7.05      Value added and additional employment generated by the marketing,
processing, and other related activities, as well as secondary benefits due
to the acceleration of the general economic activity in the region as a re-
sult of the project construction and operation, were not quantified and con-
sequently are not considered above.
7.06      Bacurato Dam construction would make provision for a hydroelectric
power plant to be added at some future date. Benefits would accrue to the
project if such a plant were constructed but these have not been evaluated.
1/   Only direct employment in field activities is considered and 250 working
days per one man-year is assumed.



- 25 -
7.07      The Rio Sinaloa is presen5ly subject to periodic flooding.  Major
floods with peak flows over 1,000 m /sec occurred in 1942, 1943, 1949, 1950,
1955, 1958, 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968 and 1971. No good records of damages
caused by each flood are available; however they are known to have been con-
siderable. The designed flood control space and surcharge space in Bacurato
Reservoir would bring very appreciable benefits to the Sinaloa Valley through
preventing flood damages. These have not been evaluated in monetary terms
nor included in the rate of return calculations.
7.08      There are no exploited fish resources along the Sinaloa River.  Con-
struction of Bacurato Reservoir should allow fish to be propagated and actually
improve the environmental aspects of the reservoir area. The Sinaloa River at
present experiences short periods of no flow in the channel. Under project
conditions, there should always be some flows at least to Sinaloa de Leyva.
Return flows from irrigation would maintain a live stream in the lower reaches
which should reduce any possible pollution problems. There are no known water-
associated diseases such as Bilharzia in the area.



- 26 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment would:
(a)  protect water supply against adverse uses (para 4.04);
(b)  not generate power in the future in a pattern incompatible
with irrigation requirements (para 4.05);
(c)  prepare tender documents for civil works having minimum
value of Mex$20 million as far as practicable (para 4.10);
(d)  maintain separate accounts and submit audit reports (para 4.16);
(e)  provide intensive extension service activity for the initial
four-year period and continue at an adequate level (para 5.05);
(f)  make best effort to make available adequate credit resources to
project farmers (para 5.06);
(g)  levy charges for water services sufficient to pay operation and
maintenance costs plus as much as was practicable of investment
costs. Such charges would be determined following socio-economic
surveys made periodically, the first of which would be undertaken
by June 30, 1979. The Bank would be given a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on conclusions and recommendations of the
studies (para 5.09).
(h)  assist project farmers in marketing higher valued crops (para
6.05).
8.02      Contracts let under international competitive bidding procedures
prior to signing of the loan would be eligible for financing under the loan
up to a maximum of US$1.0 million (para 4.15).
8.03      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$47 million.
January 28, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Bank Loans for the Agricultural Sector in Mexico
1.         Since 1961, the Bank has helped finance eight loans in the agri-
cultural sector in Mexico -- four for irrigation and four for livestock and
agricultural credit. Pertinent facts concerning the implementation of these
projects are discussed below and a statement of each is given in Table 1.
Loan 275-ME of Jan. 1961 - First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
2.         Rehabilitation work under this project was completed in 1966 in
four districts over a total irrigated area of about 690,000 ha, or an area
about 20% larger than anticipated. Project costs remained within the
US$110/ha estimates. On-farm development was affected initially by the lack
of credit, which the Government had agreed to provide, but, at the end of
the development period, private bankers and commercial food and marketing
agencies supplied much of the needed financial support and technical assis-
tance, especially to vegetable growers. Water charges are being collected
essentially in accordance with the loan agreement. Agricultural development
has been considerable, surpassing appraisal expectations, and agro-business
in particular has been making spectacular progress. The success of this
project, particularly in the El Fuerte District, is expected to enhance
farmers' incentives in the proposed project because of its proximity to the
Rio Sinaloa area.
Loan 336-ME of April 1963 - Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
3.         Rehabilitation works on 350,000 ha were completed in 1970, and costs
remained in line with the appraisal estimates of US$110/ha. The principal
problems encountered were: (a) leakage from unlined canals; (b) high water-
table in one district; (c) inadequacy of technical assistance to ejidatarios,
and (d) radical changes in the cropping patterns. As complete lining of the
canals would be too costly, determined efforts are being made to reduce water
needs by modifying the cropping pattern and increasing the on-farm water effi-
ciency. SRH will construct additional drains to reclaim land affected by high
salinity where the watertable is too high. Although research and extension
services have been satisfactorily increased since project completion, credit
to ejidatarios has remained inadequate because of lack of education and farm-
ing experience and cumbersome administrative procedures. As a result, on-farm
improvements and farm machinery services remain inadequate. Cotton has been
largely replaced in the cropping patterns by cereals, fodder crops, and
pasture as a result of technical problems, shifting marketing conditions, and
Government support prices. In spite of all this, the project is expected to
yield the expected benefits. The total irrigated area exceeds the appraisal



ANNEX 1
Page 2
estimate, and yields and farm income are considerably higher than those pre-
vailing when the project started. Water charges of Mex$ 100 to 120/ha (US$8.00 -
9.60) are being collected but no contribution to capital recovery charges is
yet being made. The Government is reviewing the situation (see para. 4).
Loan 450-ME of May 1966 - Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Region Lagunera
and San Juan Del Rio Irrigation Districts
4.         Most project construction works on about 95,000 ha were completed
ahead of time except for land leveling in Lagunera, but costs were about 30%
higher than the appraisal estimate of US$688/ha largely because of foundation
problems encountered at Los Tortola dam, changes in plan at San Juan del Rio
and higher unit costs on land leveling. The main problems were lack of
extension services and water shortage, the former being acute in Lagunera
where the farmers themselves were the main obstacle to land leveling. In
San Juan, overall water efficiency is only 50%, with considerable quantities
of water being lost from the reservoirs through seepage. Additional technical
assistance would be required to increase water efficiency above the current
70% if the area is to be fully irrigated. Unlike the situation in the other
projects, credit distribution--particularly for short term--has been adequate
and has increased significantly in the project areas, even for ejidatarios.
Cotton or high value crops such as vines have replaced cereals in the crop-
ping pattern and farm incomes have increased significantly and exceed
appraisal estimates by 30%. Operating and maintenance charges are inadequate
and deficits amount to about 35% of the running costs. No capital recovery
charge so far is being collected. The project should be completed by the
end of 1973 and Government is planning to modify and introduce higher water
rates to allow partial recovery of investment costs. The Government's
proposals concerning levels of charges for this and other projects is expected
at time of negotiations for the proposed project.
Loan 527-ME of Jan. 1968 - Rio Colorado Project
5.         Estimated costs of this project, which became effective in 1969,
have risen by 30% largely through modifications of the plan of development.
Although construction and land leveling will probably be completed before
the closing date, extension activities will need to be expanded considerably
to ensure successful project implementation. Overall water efficiency is
currently only about 30% (50% in canals and 65% on farms), and since salinity
affects a large portion of the project area, total reclamation will take more
time than anticipated. Adequate credit funds appear to be available, but
small farmers and ejidatarios have difficulties in obtaining short-term
credit due to troublesome administrative procedures. The cropping pattern has
changed significantly, with cotton being replaced by wheat, vegetables, and
fodder crops. Current water charges pending completion of the project cover
only 75% of operating and maintenance costs. These would be reviewed after
the project is complete.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Loans 430-ME, 610-ME, 747-ME, and 910-ME Livestock and Agricultural Credit
Projects
6.         The above four loans, for a total of US$275 million, were signed in
October 1965, June 1969, June 1971 and June 1973, respectively. They support
projects under which loans for agricultural and livestock producers and for
agro-industries are made through private and public banks. These loans are
eligible for rediscounting through the Fondo. The first three projects have
been very successful in providing credit and technical services for commercial
farmers and for agro-industries. The fourth project, supported by Loan 910-ME
for US$110 million, signed in June 1973, includes an amount of US$25 million for
a credit program to ejidatarios and individual small farmers.
7.         In addition to the above Bank loans, SRH has received 26 loans since
1961 from the Interamerican Development Bank, totaling in excess of US$358
million for irrigation development.
July 17, 1973






ANNEX 1
Table 1
MEXIC0O
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Statement of Bank Loans in Agriculture
(as at 1972)
Loan (less
Number     Year          Borrower         Purpose    cancellations)
1.  Fully Disbursed
275-ME     1961       Nacional          Irrigation        15.00
Financiera, S.A.
336-_E     1964       Nacional
Financiera, S.A.  Irrigation        11.35
430-ME     1965      Nacional           Agricultural
Financiera, S.A.  Credit            25.00
610-ME     1969       Nacional          Agricultural
Financiera, S.A.  Credit            65.00
2.  Still Being Disbursed
45o-ME     1966       Nacional
Finaneiera, S.A.  Irrigation        19.00
527-N.E    1968       Nacional
Financiera, S.A.  Irrigation        25.00
747-ME     1971       Nacional          Agricultural
Financiera, S.A. Credit             75.0
91044E     1973      Nacional           Agricultural
FinancitSa, S.A. Credit            110.0






ANNEX 2
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils and Topography
1.         The topography of the left bank area is predominantly flat, with a
gradient of 0.1% toward the sea.  Along river banks and in a few depressions,
however, slopes of up to 0.4% occur. The terrain on the right bank is gently
undu:lating and the gradient toward the sea varies between 0.1 and 0.2%. Slopes
rarely reach 1% except on a few hills, which would be excluded from the proj-
ect. More land leveling would be required on the right bank due to its more
undulating terrain, and the greater number of riverbeds and depressions.
2.         A detailed soil survey covering about 44,700 ha of the left bank
area was conducted by SRH's Agricultural Service in 1969. A semi-detailed
soil survey of the balance of the area was completed in 1973. Detailed sur-
veys were mapped at a scale between 1:5000 and 1:20,000 and semi-detailed
surveys at 1:20,000 and 1:50,000. The semi-detailed surveys are adequate for
the project. Lands have also been classified under an irrigation capability
classification system developed by SRH, based on the U.S. Bureau of Reclama-
tion Irrigation Suitability Classification in which five land-use classes are
considered.
3.         Soils consist of young alluvial deposits of clay, clay loams and
loams not less than 2 m deep and with an average available water holding
capacity of 14% in the upper layers. They are distributed in large uniform
blocks. Their origins are the volcanic materials from the Sierra Madre. There
are two main soil types: the dominant type (70%) has a heavy clayish texture
and a generally deficient internal drainage, while the other type is lighter,
with good internal drainage and lies near riverbeds and in depressions. The
drainage of the heavier soils would be adequately improved with the projected
drainage works and with regular subsoiling and deep plowing. The pH is neutral
or slightly alkaline varying in the upper layers from 7.2 to 8.2. Exchangeable
sodium is low. Most of the project area is free from salinity problems (see
para 4). As to their fertility, the soils are rich in potassium but respond
positively to nitrogen and light phosphate applications. Most of these soils
can be considered to have excellent agricultural potential; about 74% of the
left bank area and 90% of the right bank area are classified by SRH in land-
use Classes I and II. The gross area classified has been reduced by 10% to
obtain the net area and allows for canals, drains and other uses. The project
area includes 1,513 ha of Class IV land with existing water rights.
4.         On the left bank, salt has accumulated in soils between the 10- and
5-m contours. In about 800 ha (0.8% of the project area), the water table,
about 2 m deep, contains between 6,000 and 9,000 parts per million of dissolved
solids. Thiis area will require heavy leaching and should be carefully managed
and supervised. In the heavy soils with deficient internal drainage, salts
have accumulated in the lower layers but leaching from rainfall and ongoing
irrigation have maintained the upper layers (up to 40 cm) free of salinity.
Proper management would maintain these soils in productive condition.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Ejidal System, Water Law and Land Tenure
General
1.         There are two classes of landholders in the project area:  private
individual smallholders and ejidos, the latter made up of individuals known
as ejidatarios, who have specific rights as members of the ejido. Two re-
cent laws, the Agrarian Reform Law 1/ and the Federal Water Law 2/ define lands
which may be expropriated by the Government for agrarian reform purposes and
the rights of the private holders to retain lands. Both laws are operable
in the project area.
The Ejido System and the Agrarian Reform Law
2.         The ejido system was officially established as a tenure system by
the Agrarian Reform Law of 1915, under whose provisions existing rural com-
munities were confirmed in their ownership rights and ejidos were created
and endowed with land, water, and all the natural resources within a demar-
cated area. The ejido, as the community, is the legal proprietor of the
land, but it cannot transfer, rent, or mortgage it. Land can be withdrawn
from an ejido only for reason of public use, in which case compensation must
be paid (para 4). The ejido may operate as a communal farm, with the mem-
bers being similar to shareholders in a corporation, or it can elect to par-
cel out its land to its members on a pro rata share. In this case, the in-
dividual ejidatario manages his own holding as though it were his own, al-
though he has use of the land only and cannot mortgage, sell, or rent it.
He may pass on his rights to one designated successor, such as his spouse,
child, or some one financially dependent on him, who must then accept the
financial obligation of supporting the dependents of the original member.
An ejidatario loses his right (a) if he or his family does not work the land
allotted personally for two consecutive years or if he does not perform his
required service to the communal farm; (b) if he has acquired his rights by
succession and does not financially support the dependents of the deceased;
(c) if he uses ejidal land for unlawful purposes; (d) if he has interest in
other ejidal land; or (e) if he is convicted of growing narcotic plants. If
an ejidatario unit becomes vacant, it is reallotted by the ejido to an eli-
gible individual.
1/    Published in the official journal on April 16, 1971.
2/    Publislied in the official journal on January 11, 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.         Membership in an ejido is entirely free and no one can be forced
to join. Any group of individuals can petition the Government to form a new
ejido, provided the prospective members can meet the eligibility require-
ments for ejidatarios. These call for the candidate to:
(a) be Mexican by birth, over 16 years old or of any age
if he or she has a dependent family;
(b) have resided in the population center filing the re-
quest for at least six months;
(c) agree to work the land personally;
(d) not own in his own name any land equal to or greater
than 10 ha of irrigated land or 20 ha of dry land;
(e) not own capital in industry or commerce exceeding
Mex$10,000 or agricultural capital exceeding
Mex$20,000; and
(f) not have been convicted for planting marijuana or
narcotics.
After a petition is filed, DAAC must review all lands within a prescribed
distance of the petitioning population center to see if land can be made
available. Private lands may not be expropriated for purposes of forming
ejidos if the individual holding does not exceed the following limits:
(a) 100 ha of irrigated or first class watered land;
(b) 150 ha utilized for cotton if irrigation takes
place through flooding or pumping;
(c) 300 ha in plantation crops such as sugarcane; and
(d) an area sufficient to maintain 500 head of cattle
or the equivalent in other livestock.
Lands that exceed these limits and certain federal lands can be taken, with
compensation, but private owners are entitled to retain buildings, or im-
provements such as wells.
4.         DAAC is responsible for managing ejido affairs at the Government
level and for applying the Agrarian Reform Law. This law specifies opera-
tional procedures for the ejidos and most importantly grants legal status
to it so that it is eligible for credit. Among other things, the law has
the following provisions:
(a) ejidatarios shall pay a property tax but it cannot ex-
ceed 5Z of the value of marketed production; the tax
liability is binding on the ejido and all its members;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b) each ejidatario is entitled to a houselot without
charge not exceeding 2,500 m2 in size. He is obliged
to occupy the lot and build on it, with DAAC supply-
ing suitable plans and technical assistance;
(c) ejidos may be subdivided in specific cases where tech-
nical studies indicate that subdivision is appropriate;
(d) ejidal property can be expropriated for public pur-
poses. SRH is specifically mentioned as having that
right when lands are needed for hydraulic works. How-
ever, the indemnity paid must be set aside to acquire
equivalent lands where the agrarian group can be re-
established;
(e) two or more ejidatarios can agree to work their par-
cels jointly;
(f) ejidos are entitled to preference in all government
activities such as technical assistance, provision
of credit, and purchase of produce; and
(g) ejidos using water belonging to an irrigation dis-
trict must pay the usual water charges for that dis-
trict.
The Federal Water Law
5.         This law complements the Agrarian Reform Law and sets the pro-
cedures which are applicable in developing the nation's water resources,
specifically invoking the Agrarian Reform Law in cases involving ejidal or
community properties. The law also does the following.
(a) Establishes priorities for use of water as:
(i) domestic purpose;
(ii) urban public services;
(iii) cattle watering;
(iv) irrigation;
a.   ejidal and communal lands;
b.   privately owned lands;
(v) industrial purposes;
i.   electric generation for public use;
ii.   other uses;
(vi) aquatic culture;



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(vii) electric generation for private use;
(viii) soil leaching; and
(ix) other uses;
(b) Establishes procedures for setting up new irrigation
districts and requires that all land within the bound-
aries be expropriated. It further requires DAAC to
define the rights of ownership by ejidos within the
district;
(c) States that when the irrigation district is declared
for expropriation, landholders must prove their rights
of ownership for compensation, which may be in cash or
in kind. In the latter case, the payment may comprise
not more than 20 ha of irrigated land with any balance
paid in cash or credited to the persons concerned for
payment of water charges;
(d) Requires DAAC to propose new holding sizes for ejida-
tarios if ejido lands are included in an irrigation
district;
(e) Allows for the Federal Government to declare the size
of irrigation unit to be assigned to small private
landowners or to colonos. The area may never exceed
20 ha (the Agrarian Reform Law provision of a mini-
mum allotment per ejidatario of 10 ha of irrigated
land is mentioned, (para 3d));
(f) Entitles each user to his pro rata share in times of
water shortage; and
(g) Allows double cropping without implying any permanent
right to such use when there is surplus water.
Land Tenure
6.         Private lands now irrigated, both in District 63 and outside of
it, such as the ones irrigated by private wells, and between Jaina and
Sinaloa de Leyva, have existing water rights; thus, owners have rights to
retain land up to 100 ha in a single holding. On the other hand, the lands
to be newly irrigated would fall under the provisions of the new Federal
Water Law and would therefore be expropriated and reallotted to present pri-
vate holders in 20-ha irrigated units. SRH proposes to negotiate with
landowners and to the extent possible, apply the provisions of the new
Federal Water Law throughout the project. Any land made available under
these negotiations would be used to form ejidos.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
7.        Ejidal land that is presently irrigated would remain as it is,
with no effort to be made to bring holdings up to the minimum size of 10 ha.
Under the project, ejidos having more than 10 ha per ejidatario would be
reorganized to bring the size down to 10 ha per ejidatario.
8.        The landholding pattern under the present situation and that which
would prevail, assuming that all negotiations concerning private land are
successfully concluded, would be as follows:
PRESENT SITUATION
Farms and Units             Farmers            Average
Area                                        Size
No      ha     %          No      %             (ha)
Ejidos               74    61,292  61       10,912    91              5.6
Private
Smallholders    1,169    39,638  39         1,169    9             33.9
Total         1,243   100,930 100        12,081  100
WITH PROJECT
Ejidos                74    84,701  84       13,252                   6.4
Private
Smallholders    1,101    16,229  16         1,101                  14.8
1,175   100,930           14,353
January 21, 1974






ANNEX 4
Page 1
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
Existing Works
1.        The existing irrigation system on the left bank consists of two
main canal systems, heading at two separate temporary diversion dams on the
Sinaloa River. The canals, Burrion and Bamoa, were privately constructed
over a long period of years but the systems were not logically laid out and
many extensions and new laterals have been added. Since SRH took over
operation of the system, in about 1958, it has increased the dependability
and the capacity of certain restricting structures, but all are old and in
need of replacement. The diversion dams, made of woven mats and hand-placed
rocks are partially destroyed almost every year by floods, and repairs must
await low flows. Consequently, crop damage results when water cannot be
effectively diverted back into the canals. In addition to the two canals
described above, there are two privately owned and operated canals above
Sinaloa de Leyva serving lands between Jaina and Sinaloa de Leyva (see
Map 10307).
2.        There are approximately 280 wells in the left bank project area,
all privately drilled and of varying quality of construction. Some pumps
used are driven by electric motors but most are powered by either gasoline or
diesel engines, and altogether they extract about 180 Mm3 of water annually.
3.        On the right bank of the Sinaloa River there are two small surface
water systems - the Canal Trinidad, heading at a temporary diversion dam
on the Arroyo de Ocoroni at El Naranjo, and the Canal Florida, heading at a
point further down the Ocoroni -- which partially serve about 7,000 ha.
The latter canal can also be fed by water from the Sinaloa River. These two
systems, however, are in a condition similar to those on the left bank and
need to be replaced. Additionally, there are some 230 wells on the right
bank area which extract an estimated 130 Mm3 annually from the groundwater.
They range in depth from 5 to 350 m and, again, most pumps are powered by
combustion engines although there are a few that are electrified.
Project Works
4.        Bacurato Dam and Reservoir.  The dam site is located on the
Sinaloa River approximately 51 km upstream from the town of Sinaloa de Leyva
and 178 km from the Gulf as measured along the bed of the river. The pro-
posed dam would be 114 m high above the foundation excavation and have a
zoned gravel and rock fill. Water tightness would be assured by a grout
curtain and a central zone constructed of impermeable material. Approxi-
mately 10 Mm3 of fill would be required for the main dam. Two small dikes
would be required on the periphery of the reservoir to fill small gaps in
the topography, while the spillway would be located in a saddle on the left
bank some distance from the main dam. This spillway would have five radial



ANNEX 4
Page 2
gates 13 m wide by 16 m high and would discharge to a concrete-lined chute
with a flip bucket to dissipate energy. Maximum discharge would be 7,410
m3/sec. This is considered adequate to handle, with surcharge, the maximum
probable inflow design flood having a peak of 18,000 m3/sec.
5.        The site has been extensively drilled and definition of the geology
has disclosed that the only specific problem is potential leakage, particu-
larly on the left abutment, but extensive grouting is planned to overcome
this problem. Construction materials have been located and exploration of
the proposed borrow pits indicates that there is sufficient material availa-
ble for dam construction.
6.        Access to the site would be provided by a new road to be construc-
ted along the left bank from Sinaloa de Leyva. The Commission Rio del Fuerte
has begun work and spent some Mex$4.0 million in calendar year 1972 on con-
struction for the first reach. The tentative program for 1973 includes an
additional Mex$5 million for the road and Mex$8 million for a construction
camp to be built near the village of Bacubiruto, about 5 km below the dam
site.
7.        The total capacity of the reservoir would be 2,900 Mm3, made up as
follows:
Sediment                        190 Mm3
Irrigation and Power         1,610
Flood Control and Surcharge 1,100
,900 Mm3
8.        A future power plant would be located at the downstream end of a
tunnel about 2 km long to one of the rivers' meanders to take advantage of
the additional fall of the stream in some 24 km of stream length between
the dam and the power plant. The plant would have a capacity of about 45
megawatts, generating 195 M kwh at a plant factor of 0.5. As part of the
present project, an intake structure and about 170 m of tunnel would be
constructed as would a shaft from the ground surface to the tunnel at sta-
tion 0 + 160 of the tunnel. A short reach of 4.0-m diameter penstock and
a butterfly valve would be installed to allow the balance of the tunnel and
the power facilities to be constructed later without interfering with opera-
tion of the reservoir for irrigation purposes.
9.        Construction of the dam would take place in three stages, timed
to take advantage of the dry seasons and still accommodate the high flows
of the rainy season. This three-stage method of construction has been suc-
cessfully used in other dams in Mexico as have the measures for providing
special flood protection during the second stage. The first stage would
involve construction of a diversion canal on the left bank of the river
channel to carry river flows. Coffer dams would be constructed to divert
flows into the canal and to prevent water from flowing back into the site



ANNEX 4
Page 3
at the lower end. The right abutment would then be prepared and fill
placed to elevation 200 m above sea level. Two tunnels, each with a diame-
ter of 7 m would be constructed through the left abutment. The second stage
would be the most critical and would inrolve diverting water through the
two tunnels while the left abutment area was prepared and the fill on that
bank brought up to elevation 200 m above sea level in advance of the next
rainy season. At that elevation, the tunnels should have capacity to carry
the normally expected flood flows, but if higher than normal flows were
imminent and there was a risk that the fill would be overtopped, steel mats
would be placed in a low section of the fill to provide protection.
10.       The third stage of construction would involve bringing the fill to
its designed elevation of 256 m and modifying the tunnels for permanent use
as irrigation and river outlets. Final control of irrigation releases would
be through two jet valves installed at the downstream end of steel penstocks
in the tunnels.
11.       CIEPS, a firm of consulting engineers in Mexico City, was retained
by SRH to perform the detailed studies of the dam site and to prepare the
preliminary designs and an engineering report. As part of its studies CIEPS
conducted a survey of the reservoir area in 1970 and early 1971 and found
the following:
Population in reservoir         2,905
Number of houses                  578
Area affected
Ejidal                        5,688 ha
Communal                        884
Federal                       1,630
Total           8X202 ha
The inhabitants now living in the reservoir area, which is only partially
developed for subsistence dry-land farming, would be moved to lands to be
reallocated in the right bank irrigation area. The same procedure has been
followed in construction of other reservoirs in Mexico and has had excellent
results in that the people thus relocated gain the advantages of electricity,
central water, sanitary facilities, access roads, and schools.
12.       Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam.  The site for this structure is
close to the town of Sinaloa de Leyva and a few hundred meters downstream
of the existing temporary diversion dam serving the Bamoa Canal system.
The structure would consist of an over-flow section about 450 m long, with
sluiceways and canal intakes at each end. The design would be similar to
that used for many structures in Mexico and would involve a concrete wall
about 5-m high serving as the crest of the overflow section. Upstream of



ANNEX 4
Page 4
this wall would be a compacted select material embankment protected by hand-
placed rock 1-m thick, grouted with concrete.  The crest would have a 1-m
drop, then a 57-m-long flat slope apron of grouted rock. To further control
erosion, concrete sills would be placed at about 11.5-m intervals in the ap-
ron. The sluiceways (to bypass sediment) and canal headworks are standard
concrete structures with radial gates to control the flows to the canals
and through the sluiceway.
13.       Irrigation Distribution System.  The capacity of the main canal on
the left bank would be 40 m3/sec and that of the right bank, 45 m3/sec. The
cr teria for capacity is 1 1/sec/ha down to the smaller size laterals where
the practical limits of size, when done by machine, would control. Secondary,
tertiary, and quaternary laterals would be used in a standard pattern to
effect distribution to the lands. The systems would be concrete-lined
throughout, with a 10-cm thickness for the main canals and larger laterals
and 7.5 cm for the small ones. Appropriate structures, such as checks and
drops, would be of concrete. Turnouts would be provided to about each 60
ha. Measuring devices would be installed at each turnout.
14.       Drainage System.  Works on the drainage system would involve im-
provement of the natural drains such as the Arroyo San Rafael to serve as
the main outlets with lateral drains as needed to provide an outlet for all
drain water. Drain criteria would call for a minimum depth of 2.0 m and
sufficient capacity to remove 50 mm of rainfall in 24 hours. This generally
results in a capacity of 10 1/sec/ha.
15.       Roads.  Roads would be provided along canal banks and drains for
operation and maintenance purposes but they would also be used by farmers
for access to their plots. In those few cases where the canal and drain
system does not provide a suitable road pattern, connections would be made
to complete the road system.
16.       Wells.  Project cost estimates contemplate drilling 60 new wells,
30 on each bank of the river. The new wells would be about 200 m deep and
be reamed to a diameter of 22 inches. Sixteen-inch diameter casing would be
installed and gravel packed. Deep well turbine pumps driven by diesel en-
gines would be installed.
17.       In lieu of or in addition to the new wells, certain of the existing
wells may be incorporated into the system. The criteria for selecting wells
to be incorporated are:
(a) discharge greater than 50 1/sec;
(b) water quality less than 3,000 micromhos/cm
(2,000 ppm of dissolved solids);
(c) location near the canals of the new system; and
(d) good condition.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
The average well thus to be included would be about 90 m deep, with a dis-
charge of 83 1/sec.
18.       Land Preparation.  New lands not now cultivated would be cleared
and leveled. This would involve about 2,000 ha on the left bank and 37,000
ha on the right bank. Other lands would be leveled as needed and, as a last
step, all lands would be smoothed with a land plane.
19.       Auxiliary Items.  Houses for ditch riders would be constructed.
A telephone system would be installed to allow communication between the dam,
the headquarters at Guasave and Los Mochis, and the various operating per-
sonnel. The District office at Guasave has been recently enlarged and is
adequate to serve as the project headquarters. Sub-offices would be con-
structed at three locations to assist operation and maintenance activities
and to collect water charges.
July 17, 1973






MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Schedule
I                           .               @                j               i                             .          ,,     .
Feature                        Calendar Year       1973            1974            1975             1976            1977             1978           197 9gg
Bacurato Dam                                                             -           -
Access Road
Construction Camp                                   m
Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam
Main Canals                                           -_
Irrigation System
Wells
Drains
Roads---
Ditch Riders Houses
Telephone Lines                                                                                      -
Gauging Stations                                                                     -
Offices
Land Clearing                                                                        -
Land Levelling                                                       =               -               -
Equipment                                    I                          -                            -
Rights of Way
P'.AMEPA (Extension Services)                                                                          -             -
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






ANNEX 6
Page I
MEXICO
SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Availability, Requirements, Utilization, and Quality
Water Available
1.        Surface Water.  Flows of The Sinaloa River, which would be the
source of surface water for the project, were measured from January 1942 to
present at a gauging station at Jaina. Bacurato Dam site is upstream of
Jaina and Sinaloa de Leyva downstream (see map 10307). The basin tributary
to the guage is 8,200 km2. All flows at Jaina are useable for project pur-
poses, either through storage at Bacurato or for direct diversion at Sinaloa
de Leyva. Annual flows have varied from a minimum of 329 Mm3 in 1949, with
an average annual flow of about 1,225 M1m3. An eight-year period extending
from October 1950 to October 1958 was the most critical, when an average
annual flow of 775 Mm3 was recorded. While Bacurato Dam would occasionally
spill water in years of high inflow, it would, for all practical purposes,
provide control for nearly all other flows.
2.        Groundwater.  Over 500 wells have been drilled in the project area
for various uses, but mainly for irrigation. Records of well use are not
completely accurate but they indicate that average annual withdrawal under
present conditions is about 180 Mm on the left bank and 130 Mm3 on the
right bank. This has resulted in a general lowering of the watertable,
particularly on the left bank, of about 1 m per year. SRHi attempted to
utilize a digital groundwater model to represent the aquifer to allow re-
finement of estimates of safe yield under both present and project condi-
tions but it was unable to calibrate the model because of lack of data on
aquifer characteristics. All wells were privately drilled and no logs are
now available. In the absence of the model, water balance studies were
made which indicate the average recharge under present conditions to be
about 150 Mm3 on the left bank and 200 Mm3 on the right.
3.        The conditions of recharge would change under project conditions.
Losses from the Sinaloa River channel between Jaina and Sinaloa de Leyva are
the main source of recharge at present. Under project conditions, the annual
flood magnitude would be greatly reduced, but, conversely, the average month-
ly flows would be more uniform and give a longer period during which effec-
tive recharge from this source would take place. Other sources of recharge
would be canal and lateral losses from the irrigation system and deep perco-
lation losses from the fields. Although part of such losses would escape
through drain flow and non-beneficial consumptive use, an appreciable por-
tion should still be effective for recharge. These losses are estimated at
about 450 1Im3 per year and, if 50% is used as a measure of recharge, the
safe yield of the aquifer should be in excess of 200 Mm3 under project con-
ditions. Since there are many unknowns in deriving such a figure, a maximum
annual withdrawal of 100 Mm3 has been adopted. This is considered ultra-
conservative and observations of groundwater level would be continued under



ANNEX 6
Page 2
project conditions to determine if pumping rates could be increased. A
general rise in watertable levels would indicate that a larger withdrawal
is possible.
Water Requirements
4.        Water requirements per crop were computed by the modified
Blaney-Criddle procedure, using factors based largely on local experience.
Diversion requirements per crop were then derived, using 85% efficiency for
canal conveyance and 70% for farm efficiency, or an overall efficiency of
60%. These are considered reasonable as all canals and laterals would be
lined. Recognizing that periods of drought such as occurred from 1950-58
(see para 1) could occasionally recur, six different cropping patterns were
developed reflecting different intensities of second cropping and, conse-
quently, water use. The least intensive, or minimum pattern, is No. 1, which
contemplates one crop on each hectare of irrigable land each year but excludes
rice. Cropping pattern No. 2 has the same concept but allows 3,500 ha of rice
to be planted. Crop patterns 3 to 6 allow second cropping up to a maximum of
40,000 ha double cropped. The patterns and associated annual water use are
shown in Table 1.
Water Utilization
5.        Studies of operation of the project were conducted on a monthly
basis for the eight-year critical period (para 1) to see if the combined use
of surface and groundwater resources could meet the water requirements of
the minimum cropping pattern. Results of this study indicated that short-
ages in supply as follows would have been experienced:
1953       4.3%
1954      22.3%
1958      25.1%
These are considered acceptable and tolerable, considering that, in the
other years of study, from 1942 to present, no shortages would have occurred
and the water requirements of the minimum cropping pattern would have been
fully met.
6.        The studies described above also indicated that in most years, the
water supply would be adequate to meet the water requirements of a more in-
tensive cropping pattern, as reflected by cropping patterns No. 2 to 6.
Most inflow to the reservoir occurs in the period June through September and
it was rationalized that water physically in storage in Bacurato Reservoir
as of October 1 each year could be used as the basis for a decision by the
Comite Directivo (Management Committee of the irrigation district) for crop-
ping patterns for the following 12 months. The limits chosen are as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Minimum        Cropping        Cropped
Reservoir Content  Pattern For       Area
on October 1  Next 12 Months ('000's ha)
1,360 MIm3          6           140
1,235 Mm3           5           130
1,110 11m3          4           120
985 MEm3           3          110
860 Mm3           2           100 with rice
Less than   860 Mm             1           100 without rice
7.        A further analysis of the full period of study of 27 years for
which records of flows at Jaina were available indicated the following re-
sults in choice of cropping if the above criteria were followed:
Cropping Pattern    No. of Times Chosen             Intensity
1                      5              100% without rice
2                      1               100% with rice
3                      4               110%
4                      0               120%
5                      3               130%
6                     14               140%
27 years
It can thus be seen that in more than 50% of the years, a crop intensity of
140% can be used. The weighted average is 126% cropping intensity, which
is used to evaluate the benefits of the project.
8.        The project depends on integrated use of groundwater with con-
trolled surface supplies, particularly in years of short supply. As one
never knows when a drought period may be starting, it is important that the
water in storage at Bacurato Reservoir be protected and not exhausted before
supplies are supplemented by groundwater pumping. A study was made of costs
of pumping a million cubic meters versus the benefits achieved by using the
same quantity of water. A further analysis was made of the additional water
spilled at Bacurato Dam if pumping were started with various quantities of
water in storage. The above analysis is not adequate for establishing
definitive criteria but it indicates that only minor spills would be induced,
and that the benefits would far exceed pumping costs if pumping were con-
tinued at all times that the reservoir content was less than 75% of capacity
for irrigation, or 1,200 Mm3. This criteria should be refined by project
operation experience. With increased pumping, particularly if greater
groundwater withdrawals are possible (para 3), a higher average cropping
intensity can be practiced.
Water Quality
9.        The quality of the surface flows generally falls in the category
of slightly saline water with medium sodium hazard ( C 1 S 2). Analysis
shows less than 300 ppm total dissolved solids, or about 450 micromhos.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Groundwater quality varies widely according to location of the well. No well
wager would be used where salinity exceeds 3,000 micromhos.  As all water
would be delivered to the irrigation distribution system, there would be a
natural mixing and the resultant water would be fully acceptable for irriga-
tion,
July 17, 1973



MEXICO
SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Area Planted to Various Crops for Six Cropping Patterns
('000 ha)
Plans of Cultivation
CroE                 1        2         3        4        5        6
v Beans  ..................  14.50    14.00    14.00    14.00    14.00    14.00
Vegetables                  6...............22  6.oo  6.00  6.oo  6.oo     6.00
(D   Sesame           .............. ..1.04  1.00   1.70     2.40     3.10      3.80
N   Soya  ................... 25.90    25.00    25.40    25.80    26.20    26.60
%.   Corn.                        6.22     6.00     7.00      8.oo     9.00    10.00
H   Rice  ...................0.00         3.50      5.20     6.90     8.60    10.30
<    Cotton          .17...................62    17.00    17.00    17.00    17.00    17.00
Safflower          10.36             10..  lO.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
Chick Peas       .2...............33  2.25     2.25     2.25     2.25      2.25
Sorghum        .6.................22  6.oo     7.00     8.00      9.00    10.00
Melons         .1.................30  1.25     1.25     1.25      1.25     1.25
wheat    .....      .       5,.18    5.00    10.20    15.40    20.60    25.&0
Alfalfa and Fruits 3-11   3.11        3.00     3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00
Total            100.00   100.00   110.00   120.00   130.00   140.00
Area Double Cropped '        0         0        10       20       30        40
tTater Requirements
,,$n3              868      920      1,C25    1,130    1,234    1,347
cD 
Hc>






, nr,ex. 7
MdEXICO
RIO SIRIALDA IECICATIONT PHOJECT
C_st -stimateJ
--  Mex$ Millions   --   -- USR  Million Equivalent --
Local   7oreign   Tot,!    Local    Foreign    Total   FE
Civil Works Under ICB
Bacurato Dain
Vain Cam 2. ..5                                                                         2c.05
,,iies   .....................C4.3                                                       0.34
Spillwey                                                 3(0.9                           2.47
Irrication Cutlet                                        11.0 X                            88
Divarsn oti -,, ri.s    1.8..1                                                           1 ..5
Bowe- Outlet                      11.9 ..95
Subtotal Jams                          TF~7    777         32                  10.7       2Th         42
3inalo. ce L2yva Diversion Dam              9.6       6.5      16.3      0.76       C.52       1.30       40
PFair Canals ........ ..............      125.6      £5.5    21)5.1    10.29        6.£4      17.13       40
rrigation  )istribution ....p .,.         123.o      o2.6    206.4       9.90       6.61     16.51       40
Wells, Installation of Equipment
and Connecting Canals .... ......        11.3       3.8      15.1      0.50       0.31       1.21      25
irainage Network ......    ...........     3&.6      25.5      64.3      3.1G       2.05       5.14      50
-?oads ..                                  29.2      195.5     486       2.34       1.55       3.89       40
Ditch Rider Hiouses ...... .........        1,R P      -        1.8      0.15        -        (XiS.       0
Telephone Line .......    ............      2.1        -        2.1      0.17        -         0.17       0
Gauging Stations .......1.........          1.5        -        1.4      0.11        -        0.11.       0
Distri2:t Offices ......    ...........     1.5        -        1.5      0.12        -         0.12       0
Subtotal ICB                           533.      360.3    89        53.03      27.5       71.86
Civil Works Under Local Bids
Land  aleering ......            ......... 37        18.6      53.3      2.78       1.;9       4.27       35
L,and Leveling ..............              82.3      27A),   109.7       6.58       2.19      8.77       25
Subtotal                               11l7.0    *                   9.36       3.68,     1 3.07      27
Civil W,orks Under Ilegotiated 1ontra,-ts
Access Road .......     ...............    20.8        -       20.8      1.66        -         1.66        0
Construction Camp)  - ....... .            13.5        -       13.5     1.08         -         1.08       0
Subtotal                                                  -3773-  .              _7_;2  --7
Total Civil Works                         6403    55T7   1,056           T         33.51         T
Ycuipment and Materials1.
Furnished by SFH (Sot ICB)    ......      123.9        -      123.9      9.91        -         9.91        0
Purchased by SEH (TCB)       ...........    0.1       5.0       5.1      0.01       0.40       0.51       95
Operation and  a`intenance    ........     21           -      21.9      175         -         1.75        0
-ubtotal                               145.9       5.(T    50.9    TFW E        UoT       12.07        3
Sugineering and Supervision                    127.8        -      '-7.      1.22         -       10.22         0
Bights of ;fay
Bacuratc ......    ..............     70.C        -      70.0      5.60         -        5.6C
Sinaloa de Leyva ..... .......         1.0        -        1.0     o.o8        -C 08
Irrigation ...........33,5..          33.5        -                ?.6                   2.68
ubtotal                               104 .        -          5        .',       - 0364 
Conti nrencil-s
Physical,  1.7.4    156.3    12l.7                                       0.27       3.70       -,
ince,    1C  .............5....          764       46.2    124.6       6.27       3.70       9.97
Subtot3l                               1 56.8    92.-5    29.3    12.55          7.4 0    19-.S       37
Totnl Pronect l'ithout SLIIS!i-k               1224.3    503.5   1728.1    97.92        50.31    13&.23        29
FT.&DhFA (Extension Services)-/                  17.6        -      17.6      1.50        -         1.40        C
Total with Plamepa                             1241.9      0h    175.7o S .                .T31  139.63 27
Interest during Construction                      -        75.0     75.0        -        6.00       6.00      100
1241.9 5 7=        1270.7      92         6.31    1755 63       32
1/ See Annex 8 for details.
2/ On civil works and equipmient.
3/ See annex 12 for details.
July 17, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment and Materials
General
1.        SRI traditionally purchases common building materials such as
cement and reinforcing steel in bulk orders and furnishes them to the con-
tractors for use on SRH work. In general, small requirements for materials
such as steel shapes, fabricated gates, valves, and such are included in the
civil works contracts on a furnish and install basis. It is only in the case
of large special equipment that SRH prepares special bidding documents and
seeks separate bids. Examples are the large radial gates for use in the
spillway at Bacurato Dam. The civil works contractor is then required to'
install the equipment.  Equipment and materials available in Mexico cannot
be imported by SRH.  In general, only large size or special equipment is not
available and thus may be imported.
Equipment and Materials for use in Project Furnished by SRH under Local Bids
2.        The following items would be purchased by SRH under local bidding
procedures and furnished to the civil works contractor for installation in
the project. These items are not included in Bank financing.
Estimated Cost
Item                                                 Mex$            US$ Equiv.
------Million ----------
Cement and Reinforcing Steel                         80.53           6.44
Radial Gates, Bacurato Dam                            9.98           0.80
Power Outlet, Bacurato Dam
Trash rack                                       0.12           0.01
Steel liner for tunnel                           5.25           0.42
Steel for ladders                                0.08           0.01
Irrigation Outlet, Bacurato Dam
Trash rack                                       0.18           0.01
Steel liner for tunnel                           4.00           0.32
Well Equipment (Casing, Pumps, Engines)              21.53           1.72
Measuring Devices                                     2.21           0.18
123.88           9.91



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Equipment and Materials Furnished by SRH Under International Competitive Bidding
3.        The following items are not locally available in Mexico and would be
purchased by SRH under ICB procedures and furnished to the civil works contrac-
tors for installation at Bacurato Dam. These items would be included in Bank
Financing.
Estimated Cost
Item                                                 Mex$            US$ Equiv.
---- 1fMillion -
lioists for Radial Gate, Bacurato Dam                0.38            0.03
Power outlet - butterfly valve and accessories    1.10               0.09
Irrigation outlet - butterfly valve and
accessories                     3.60            0.29
5.08            0.41
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
4.        Certain equipment would be purchased to supplement that presently
available to operate and maintain the project. Most of this equipment could
be obtained in Mexico and would be purchased under local bidding procedures.
It would be excluded from Bank financing.
Estimated Cost
Item                                           No.        Mex$    US$ Equiv.
--- Million  --
Excavator                                       15        9.50        0.76
Tractor, 85 hp with scraper                      8        1.31        0.10
Mfotor grader, 140 hp                            6        2.46        0.20
Trucks, heavy                                   24        2.28        0.18
Slope mower                                     11        0.88        0.07
Tractor, 45 hp                                  11        0.99        0.08
Tractor with angledozer, 270 hp                  3        3.45        0.28
Trucks, pickup                                  10        0.44        0.04
Compressor                                       3        0.45        0.04
Welder                                           4        0.15        0.01
21.91       1.76
July 17, 1973



ANNEX S
EXCO
710 SINtALOA IPR2GATION PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule
---------------- US$ Millions -----------------
Fiscal Year Ending June 30, of   1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  19*0   Total
Civil Works Contracts (ICB)
Bacurato Dam                                      1.0   7.5   8.0   8.0   1.6   -        -        26.1
Sinaloa de Leyva Div. Dam                         0.8   0.3   0.2    -       -    -      -         1-3
Main Canals                                       o.8   4.0   5-5   4-5   2.3   -        -        17.1
Irrigation Distribution                            -    2.0   6.2   6.5   1.8   -        -        16.5
Wells                                              -      -    0.4   0.4   0.4   -       _         1.2
Drainage Networks                                  -    0.8   2.0   1.8   0.6   -        -5.2
Roads                                              -    0.6   1.6   1.4   0.3   -        -         3.9
Ditch Riders' Houses                               -      -     -    0.1    -    -       -         0.1
Telephone                                          -      -    0.1   0.1    -    -       -         0.2
Gauging Stations                                   -      -    0.1    -      -    -      -         0.1
-       District Offices                                    -     -      -    0.1    -    -       -        0.1
Subtotal ICB                                   Z           5-,.: T22.9   T-0-7T=
Civil Works Contracts Under Local Bids
Land Clearing                                      -    0.3   1.5   2.0   0.5   -        -43
Land Leveling                                      -    1.0   1.1   3.2   3.4                      6 7 8.7
Subtotal Not TCB                                -    T?3   2.6   5- 2         -       -        13.0
Civil Works Under Negotiatcd Cor.tracts
Access Road                                       0.7   1.0    -       -     _    _       _        1.7
Construction Camp                                 0.5   0.6                  -                     1.1
Subtotal                                       1.2   1.6           _           _                :
Total Civil Works Contracts                    3.8  18.1  26.7   L10           _7=
Equipment                                                          lo=
Furnished by SRI 'Iocal)                         0.6   3.0   3.0   3.0   0.3   -         -        9.9
Purchased by SRH (ICB)                             -      -    0-4    -      -    -      -         0.4
Operation and Maintenance (Local)                   -     -      -    0.9   0.9   -       -        1.8
Engineering and Supervision                            0.8   2.2   2.8   2.8   1.6   -         -       10.2
Rights of ',Tay                                        5.7   2.7    -       -      _    _      -        8.4
Contingencies                                            -    I.9   4.0   6.0   6.o0    -      -       19.9
PLAMEPA (Extension Services)                                          -    0-3   O.4  0.4   0.3         1.4
Subtotal                                       7.1  11.8  10.2  13.0   9      o2.4    .        520
Total (Qdzthout interest)                             10.9  29.9  36.9  4L.1  20.1, 0.4   0.3         139.6
February 4, 1974



ANNEX 1.0
ESxIC 0
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Semester                                                  at End of Semester
1974( US$  Million  J
June 33, 1974    .                 ............................                          1.0
1975
December 31, 197)4  .............................40
June 30, 1975    .............................                                           7.0
1976
December 31, 1975  .............................
June 30, 1976    .............................                                          14.0
1977
December 31, 1976  .............................                                       20.0
June 30, 1977    .............................                                          26.0
1978
December 31, 1977  .............................                                       32.0
June  30,  1978                   .............................                         40.'
1979
December  31,  1978              .............................                         43.^
June 30, 1979                     ..........              ,    ...........             46 .o
1980
December 31 , 1979  .............................                                       46.6
June 30, 1980    .............................                                          46.8
1981
December 31, 1980  .............................                                         47.0
February 4, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operating and Maintenance Costs
Present Situation
1.        SRH presently operates and maintains the surface water system for
irrigation of District 63. The following table gives pertinent data on oper-
ation of this system for recent years.
Cost of
Area            Water         Operation and
Year     Irrigated        Delivered        Maintenance
(ha)             (Mm3)          (Mex$ '000)
1966       19,369             166              2,074
1967       19,276            233               2,191
1968       26,487            247               2,522
1969       23,883             192              2,590
1970       18,293             174              3,028
1971       22,349            213               2,460
1972         NA              NA                2,347
The average cost presently incurred in District 63 to irrigate approximately
23,000 ha is about Mex$2.5 million per year.  This is equivalent to about
Mex$100 per ha (US$8), or 12 pesos per 1,000 m3 of water delivered.
2.        Other irrigation practiced is supplied by groundwater.  All pumping
from that source is done privately (except for four SRH wells on ejidal land
on the right bank) and no records are available of actual expenditures in-
curred. Analysis of average pump lifts in the area would indicate costs of
about Hex$36,000 per Nqm3 for electric pumps and about Mex$30,000 per Mm3 for
diesel-driven pumps.
Project Situation
3.        Under the project, SRH would operate all project facilities, includ-
ing the wells. Long experience in operation of irrigation systems throughout
Mexico hias led SRlI to relate operation and maintenance costs to the amount of
water delivered and to adopt a unit rate of Mlex$25 per 1,000 m3 of water
diverted for an average fully developed surface water irrigation system in-
volving a storage reservoir and typical irrigation facilities. The breakdown
of the cost is:



ANNEX I 1
Page 2
Function           %           Amount Mex$
Operation         25               6.25
Engineering of
irrigation and
drainage         10               2.50
Maintenance       40              10.00
Administration    15               3.75
Other costs        10              2.50
Total          100              25.00
4.        The water delivered under full development, with 140,000 ha cropped,
would be about 1,300  hm3.  At Mex$25 per 1,000 m3, the operation and mainte-
nance cost of the surface water system would be Mex$32.5 million per year.
Operation and aaintenance costs of wells, including pumping energy at approx-
imately Mex$0.t3 per kwh, indicate a cost of about Mex$36,000 per Mm3. Since
the project would require pumping about 110 Mm3 of groundwater per year to
yield 100 .hm3 of useable water at a cost of Mex$4.0 million, estimated oper-
ation and maintenance copts under project conditions would be about Mex$36.5
million per year.
Incremental O&M Cost
5.        For purposes of economic evaluation, only the incremental operating
costs need be considered. In the absence of known costs on present ground-
water pumping, the very conservative assumption has been made that present
pumping costs at least equal those projected under the project. The incre-
mental cost is then assigned only to the surface system and is
Mex$ M
With project                32.5
Present                      2.5
Incremental               30.0
July 17, 1973



ANNEX 12
Page 1
IIEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Services
1.        M1exican agricultural services providing education, training, research,
extension and credit are reputed to be among the best in Latin America. They
have had an important bearing on Mexico's relatively rapid agricultural devel-
opment. They are, however, still insufficient to cope with the growing needs
of the country, but offer a sound basis for expansion.
Education: Professional Level
2.        At the university level, agricultural education has grown steadily
for more than a century and Mexico now has 15 undergraduate schools. Five
of the major schools show a combined enrollment of about 6,600 students, of
whom about 1,150 will graduate this year (Ingeniero Agronomo degree). It is
estimated that Mexico has about 9,000 agriculture graduates (Ingenieros
Agronomos) now practicing their profession.
3.        Three of the major agricultural schools have postgraduate courses.
The National School of Agriculture, Chapingo near Mexico City, is part of the
ttinistry of Agriculture (SAG) and functions as a regional center for agricul-
tural education, research and extension. It is supported by the Rockefeller
and Ford Foundations, IDB, USAID, FAO/UNDP and Government. Chapingo is the
biggest and oldest postgraduate school and has nine departments offering
Masters and two offering Doctors Degrees. The Graduate School has 230 students
and, to date, 207 Masters Degrees have been granted.
4.        Mexico also has nine Veterinary schools, with a total enrollment of
about 4,200 undergraduate students, about 700 of whom graduate this year.
The Mexican National University is the only one having postgraduate courses
in Veterinary Mtedicine. There are about 3,000 veterinarians now practicing
their profession, the majority of whom work in clinics and animal disease
fields. Only a relatively small number are directly engaged in animal production.
Education: Sub-Professional Level
5.        Currently seven technical agricultural and livestock schools financed
jointly by SAG and State Governments have a student population of about 2,400
and a yearly output of about 700 sub-professionals. The role of the sub-
professionals as technical assistants to enlarge the effectiveness of the pro-
fessionals is being expanded, mainly by the Secretary of Hydraulic Resources
(SRI1), Fondo de Carantia para la Agricultura, Ganaderia and Avicultura (FONDO),
the 3anco Nacional Agropecuario System (BANAGRO) and other official and private
banks.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
6.        About 159 secondary schools offer three-year courses in farming,
animil husbandry, farm machinery and elements of rural management.
Training
7.        The National School of Agriculture, Chapingo also has continuing
special agr_cuitural training courses. One special course of six-months
duration is for technicians of the oin-going Plan De Mejoramiento Parceiario -
PL .SPA of SR11. Another special training course is for technicians from the
FONDO and public and private institutions associated with the Credit Program
of FONDO. FONDO has established an office at Chapingo to coordinate activi-
ties of the various institutions engaged in agricultural and livestock activi-
ties and to promote application of research findings at farm level.
Research
8.        Agricultural research is based on two main institutions:  Instituto
Nacional de Investigaciones Agricolas - INIA, and Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Pecuarias - INIP. Administratively both belong to SAG, INIA
to the Under Secretary for Agriculture, and INIP to the Under Secretary for
Livestock. however, there is little coordination between them. Government
and the Rockefeller Foundation have given significant support to agriculture
research, especially since 1943. Under this support, some of the high yielding
varieties of wheat and corn have been developed and produced in Mexico and
are being exported to other countries as a part of the so-called "Green
Revolution."
9.        Other types of research are carried out by specialized institutions
such as the Mexican Institute of Technological Research of Monterrey, which
devotes particular attention to agro-industries; the Institute for Improvement
of Sugar Production; the National Forestry Service; SRH on hydrologic research;
the Mexican Coffee Institute; the Center for Agrarian Research; the Universities,
mostly in connection with graduate studies; and the Latin American Association
for Animal Production with headquarters in Mexico.
Extension
10.       Agricultural extension services to meet the needs of about 3 million
'exican farmers are provided by:
- Government through SAG, SRH, and State Governments;
- Banking institutions; and
- Private organizations.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
11.       The Federal Service, the biggest of all, has some 1,900 officers,
80% of whom are graduates in either agriculture or veterinary science. The
remaining 20% are sub-professionals. Taking into account this number of ex-
tension officers and the total number of farmers, a ratio of approximately
1 officer to 1,600 farmers is obtained, which is inadequate to meet farmers'
needs by any standard. Government is in the process of correcting this numeric
deficiency and is also engaged in providing better facilities and incentives
to their Federal and State Services.
Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (PLAMEPA)
12.       SRIR has long had a section concerned with irrigation and drainage
problems in its usual irrigation district organization. These sections have
been concerned with improving irrigation practices and making more efficient
use of irrigation water in SRH districts. Over the years, this program evolved
into PLAMEPA, which now works with individual farmers, ejidos or ejidatarios
to improve use of irrigation water. While irrigationt practices are given em-
phasis in the program, a full line of extension services, including choice of
seed variety, cultivation practices, and use of fertilizer and pesticides,
is also provided. The project would include an intensive four-year PLAMEPA
effort as a development cost. A program would be continued at a reduced rate
after completion of the initial phase and be an annual cost to be born by the
Government. The timing of the intensive program would be by crop years June
1976 to approximately June 1980. This would insure that all newly settled
ejidatarios are given PLAMEPA assistance. The following investment schedule
is proposed and would result in a ratio of about one PLAMEPA employee to each
190 farmers:



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Year                 1         2         3         4
(Mex$ '000) -
Activities
Topographic surveying              750      1,150        -           -      1,900
Preparation of farm plans          320        320      320          320    1,280
Soil and drainage studies          350        750      750          750    2,600
Laboratory tests                   300        300      300          300    1,200
Field demonstrations                180     2,230    2,740        2,330    7,480
Subtotal                    1,900     4,750    4,110         3,700   14,460
Procurement
Surveying instruments              700        -        -            -         700
Laboratory equipment               230        -        -            -         230
Agricultural equipment              700       -        -            -         700
Vehicles                           210        -       590           -         800
Audio-visual aids                   105       -        -            -         105
Office equipment and supplies       45       50        60          70         225
Subtotal                    1,990      50        650          70      2,760
Total                       3,890   4,800      4,760       3,770     17,220
Contingencies                 200     240        240         190        870
Grand Total                 4 090   5 040      5,000       3,960     18.090
_______                       -     ___----- Numbers  ----------------
Personnel /_
Senior extension officer           1        1         1           1
Extension officers                 5        9         9           9
Sub-professionals                 13       23        23          23
Surveyors                          2        3         3           3
Research assistants                4        7         7           7
Secretaries                        2        3         3           3
Workers                           15       24        24          24
Total                        42       70        70          70
/1   Cost of personnel included in Activities.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Credit
13.       Agricultural credit to meet the needs of a complex farming community
composed of about 3 million farmers and producers in Mexico is provided by the
official banks and private credit institutions.
14.       Official banks are those organized or created by Government.  To
serve the agricultural sector, Mexico has three official banks:
-    Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal S.A. de C.V. (BANEJIDAL), which
lends only to Ejidatarios;
-    Banco Nacional de Credito Agricula (BANAGRICOLA) which concen-
trates on lending to small-holders and colonistas (colonos); and
-    Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO), which lends to any
technically assisted type of farmer.
In addition, the FONDO de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y
Avicultura (FONDO) was established in 1955 as a trust fund in the Central Bank
of Mexico (BANXICO), to carry out a program which provides financial support
and agricultural technical services to official and private banks active in
agriculture. Financial support to the banking system is provided through
a rediscounting mechanism. 1/
15.       Private credit institutions dealing with agricultural credit are
commercial banks and "Financieras." These have technical departments staffed
by loan officers who normally coordinate with FONDO technicians in matters
related to preparation and appraisal of farm development plans.
July 17, 1973
1/   More complete and extensive information concerning the credit system is
given in the Appraisal Report of the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural
Development Project 133a-ME, dated May 25, 1973.



I



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PliJECT
June 20, 1973                                                                  L_
Project Projections on Crops, Areas, Yields, Financial FarmgaLe Prices and Cost of Production
1976     1977      1978       1979       1980                  1976      1977       1978       1979      1S80
Without                                                        Without
Project                With Project -----------                Project      ------------ -With Project--------
Beans                                                                                                 Cotton
Area                            ha            2,000    3,000    6,000    10,000    14,00,0                   5,000    8,000    11,000    14,000         17,000
Yields                       tons/ha              0.8       1.1       1.4        1.6        1<S                   1.2       1.7        ?.2        2.5      - ,5
Price                        Ps/ton           2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000        2,000                  2,700    2,700        2,700      2,700      2,700
Gross Production Value       Ps/ha            1,600    2,200    2,800    3,200        3,200                  3,240    4,590       5,940      6,730       6,750
Cost of Production           Ps/ha           1,200    1,400    1,600    1,750         1,750                  3,000    3,500       4,000      4,200       4,200
Net  Value of Production   Ps/ha                400       800    1,200    1,450       1,450                     240    1,090       1,940      2,550      2,550
Vegetables                                                                                           Safflower
Area                            ha            1,500    2,500    4,500    6,000        6,000                  5,000    6,000        8,000    10,000    10,000
Yields                       tons/he             12.0      15.0      18.0      20.0       20.0                    0.6       1.0        1.4        1.7        1.7
Price                        Ps/ton           2,800    2,800    2,800    2,800        2,800                   1,720    1,720       1,720      1,720      1,720
Gross Production  Value    Ps/ha            33,600   42,000   50,400   56,000    56,000                       1,032    1,720       2,408     2,924       2,924
Cost of Production           Ps/ha          15,000   18,000   21,000   22,000    22,000                         800    1,000       1,200      1,400      1,400
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha            18,600   24,000   29,400   34,000    34,000                        232        720      1,208      1,524      1,524
Sesame                                                                                               Chick Peas
Area                            ha            2,000    2,500    3,000    3,000        3,000                   3,000    3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000
Yields                       tons/ha              0.5       0.7       0.9      1.0         1.0                    0.6       1.0        1.4        1.7        1.7
Price                        Ps/ton           2,800    2,800    2,800    2,800         2,800                  2,000    2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000
Gross Production  Value    Ps/ha              1,400    1,960    2,520    2,800        2,800                   1,200    2,000       2,800      3,000      3,400
Cost of production           Ps/ha            1,200    1,400    1,600    1,650        1,650                     800    1,100       1,400      1,630      1,630
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha                200       560       920    1,150      1,150                    400        900      1,400      1,770      1,770
Soybeans                                                                                             Sorghum
Area                            ha            5,000    6,000   11,000   16,000    26,000                      5,000    5,500       6,500      8,000      9,000
Yields                       tons/ha              1.1       1.5       2.0       2.1        2.1                    1.5       2.5        3.5        4.5        4.5
Price                        Ps/ton           1,920    1,920    1,920    1,920        1,920                     680       680       680         680        680
Gross Production Value       Ps/ha            2,112    2,880    3,840    4,032        4,032                   1,020    1,700       2,380      3,060      3,060
Cost of Production           Ps/ha            1,700    1,900    2,100    2,200        2,200                     900    1,300       1,700      2,065      2,065
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha                412       980    1,740    1,832       1,832                     120       400        680        995        995
Carn   ,                                                                                              Melons
Are,                            ha            5,000    5,500    7,000    8,000        9,000                     500    1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000
Y. ids                       tons /ha            1.1        2.0       2.5       3.0        3.0                    8.0      11.0       14.0       16,.0      16.0
Xrice                       Ps/ton             960       960       960       960        960                  1,920    1,920       1,920      1,920      1,920
Gross Production Value       Ps/ba            1,056    1,920    2,400    2,880         2,880                 15,360   21,120    26,880    30,720    30,720
Cost of Production           Ps/ha            1,000    1,500    1,800    2,100        2,100                   6,000    7,500       9,000    10,000    10,000
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha                 56       420       600       780        780                  9.360   13,620    17,880    20,720    20,720
k(ice                                                                                                 Wheat
Area,                           ha            4,000    5,000    6,000    7,000         7,000                  9,000   10,000    12,000    15,000    18,000
Yields                       tons/ha              2.0       2.8       3.6       4.0        4.0                    2         2.5        3.0        3.5         3.5
Ppice                        Ps/ton           1,150    1,150    1,150    1,150        1,150                     850       850        850        850        850
-Gross Production Value       Ps/ha            2,300    3,220    4,140    4,600        4,600                   1,700    2,125      2,550       2,975      2,975
Cost of Production           Ps/ha            2,000    2,400    2,700    2,800        2,800                   1,500    1,650       1,800      1,920      1,920
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha                300       820    1,440    1,800        1,800                    200       475        750      1,055      1,055
Alfalfa                                                                                                Total Physical Area                   100,000 ha
Area                            ha            1,000    2,000    3,000    3,000         3,000       Total Average Annual Cropped Area 126,000 ha
Yields                       tons/ha              8.0      10,0      12,0      12.0       12.0
Price                        Ps/ton             400       400       400       400        A00
Gross Production  Value    Ps/ha              3,200    4,000    4,800    4,800        4,800
Cost of Production           Ps/ha            2,300    2,750    3,200    3,200        3,200
Net Value of Production    Ps/ha                900    1,250    1,600    1,600         1,600



MEXICO
June 18, 1973                                                       RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Production, Production Costs and Incremental V,l,e of             t
--------------------------------------------------WITHLOUT PROJECT-------------------------------------
Gross Production                                  Net Value of
Crops                      Area    Yields    Production         Prices             Value              Production Costs           Production
(ha)    (kg/ha)  (metric ton)    (Mex$/ton)         (Mex$/'000)         (Mex$/ha)  (Mex$/'0O0)      (Mex$/'000)
Beans                     2,000       800        1,600          2,000              3,200            1,200           2,400            800
Vegetables                1,500  ,12,000        18,000          2,800             50,400           15,000          22,500         27,900
Sesame                    2,000       500        1,000          2,800              2,800            1,200          2,400             400
Soybeans                  5,000    1,100         5,500          1,920             10,560            1,700           8,500          2,060
Corn                      5,000    1,100         5,500            960              5,280            1,000           5,000            280
Rice                      4,000    2,000         8,000          1,150              9,200            2,000           8,000          1,200
Cotton                    5,000    1,200         6,000          2,700             16,200            3,000          15,000          1,200
Safflower                 5,000       600        3,000          1,720              5,160              800          4,000           1,160
Chick peas                3,000       600        1,800          2,000              3,600              800           2,400          1,200
Sorghum                   5,000    1,500         7,500            680              5,100            .900           4,500             600
Melons                      500    8,000         4,000          1,920              7,680            6,000           3,000          4,680
Wheat                     9,000    2,000        18,000            850             15,300            1,500          13,500          1,800
Alfalfa and fruits        1,000    8,000         8,000            400              3,200            2,300           2,300            900
Total              48,000    1,831        87,900           1,566           137,680             1,948         93,500         44,180
--------------------------------------------------WITH PROJECTL/ ----------------- -
Gross Production                                     Net Value of   Incremental Net
Crops                     Area      Yields    Production        Value_/               Production Costs            Production       Value of Production
(ha)    (kg/ha)    (metric tons)   (Mex$/'000)         (Mex$/ha)          (Mex$/'000)                       (Mex$/'000)
Beans                    14,000    1,600        22,400         44,800              1,750               24,500         20,300             19,500
Vegetables                6,000   20,000       120,000        336,000             22,000              132,000        204,000            176,100
Sesame                    3,000    1,000         3,000          8,400              1,650                4,950          3,450              3,050
Soybeans                 26,000    2,100        54,600        104,832              2,200               57,200         47,632             45,572
Corn                      9,000    3,000        27,000         25,920              2,100               18,900          7,020              6,740
Rice                      7,000    4,000        28,000         32,200              2,800               19,600         12,600             11,400
Cotton                   17,000    2,500        42,500        114,750              4,200               71,400         43,350             42,150
Safflower                10,000    1,700        17,000         29,240              1,400               14,000         15,240             14,080
Chick peas                3,000    1,700         5,100         10,200              1,630                4,890          5,310              4,110
Sorghum                   9,000    4,500        40,500         27,540              2,065               18,585          8,955              8,355
Melons                    1,000   16,000        16,000         30,720             10,000               10,000         20,720             16,040
Wheat                    18,000    3,500        63,000         53,550              1,920               34,560          18,990            17,190
Alfalfa and fruits        3,000   12,000        36,000         14,400              3,200                9,600          4,800              3,900
Total             126,000    3,771       475,100         832,552             3,335              420,185         412,367           368,187
1/ At full development.
2/ Prices as above and are farmgate financial prices.



MEXICO
Julv 2, 1973                                                                                            RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Detailed Labor Requirements and Production Costs
Beans   Vegetables   Sesame   Soybeans   . C         .Rice'  Cotton  Safflower  Chick Peas   Sorghum   Melolls   Wheat   Alfalfa
labor Requirements (mai-da% s/ha)
Without eroject                                 10         170          10          10        7       I 5      36         4            6            6         SO        9         14
With oro&ect                                    13         290          12          12        9       11      I52         6            12           9        118       11        20
mqcreaental                                 3         120          2           2        2      (4)       16         2             6           3          68        2         6
-------------------------------------------------Pesos per Hectare---------------------------------------__-___-__-__-_
Production Cests
,'Without projec-\ present situation
- Contract culti9ation                       230          600        330         450      250      360      320       290           160         130         700      300       400
Seeds  -- .--.                      . . -- 280           250         25         200       60'.   200       130         70          120          80         240     -200       420
Pesticides                                    65       1,750         35          120       50     300      620         60           70           90        850       n        100
Fertilizers                                   _          900        220          220      200'    300       180        60           20         200         300      4Q        380
Tmrlements and tools                          30         900         40          45        30      50       4o         30           60          30         500       50       120
Harvesting supplies-                          90       2,100         60          105      40        50       50       40            40           30        500       50       100
- Labor                                        4t'0       6,800        400         400       28d     600   1,440         160          240         240       2,000      360       560
MiscellaneousL'                              105       1,700         90          160      100      140      220        90           90          100        910      140       220
Total                                1,200      15,000       1,200       1,700   1,000   2,000   3,000          800           800         900      6,000   1,500      2,300
f                                    N,
With project, at full development
Contract cultivation, -                      430         965        500          525      600      715      545       475          510          540        755      475       f20
Improved seeds                              360          310         30          265      7       300       170        75          200           95        240      200       590
Pesticides                                    65       1,955         45          150      ?65)    365       575        80          100          170      1,060      130       120
Fertilizers and  Pesticides                   20       1,200        285          235      350.    430       220       200           20         460         380      350       490
Implements and tools                          30       1,000         50           60      180      120      100       100           95          135        630       50        150
Harvesting supplies                          100       2,270        100          115      125      150      100        60           65          130        680       50        180
Labor                                        520      11,600        480         480       360     440   2,080         240          480          360      4,720      440        800
Miscellaneousil                              225       2,720         160         370      345      280      410       160           160         175      1,535      225        250
Total                                1,750      22,000      1,650        2,200   2,100   2,800   4,200        1,390         1,630       2,065     10,0o0   1,920    3,200
Incremental
production costs                         550       7,000         450         500   1,100       800   1,200         590          830       1,165       4,000      420       900
1/  Miscellaneous includes most taxes paid by farmers on the basis of total weight of produce marketed.






ANNEX 16
Page 1
MFXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Outlook for Cotton
1.        Cotton is produced in varying quantities in more than 80 countries.
Roughly one third of the world crop is produced for export in raw (fiber)
form and significant amounts are exported by producing countries as textiles.
The United States, the USSR and the People's Republic of China are the world's
three largest producers, accounting together for about one half of the world
output. The bulk of the remainder is produced by a large number of develop-
ing countries.
2.        The United States remains the world's leading cotton exporter,
although its share in the world cotton trade has been declining historical-
ly. During the past ten years U.S. exports accounted on the average for 22
percent of the world's total exports. Over the same period, centrally plan-
ned countries accounted for another 13 percent and developing countries for
the remaining 65 percent. (See Table 1.)
3.        World cotton prices in current terms are forecast to decline by
some 10 percent from recent high levels (1969-71-1971/72) by the end of
the seventies. In terms of Mexican SM 1-1/16", a representative grade of
medium-long cotton which normally accounts for more than 60 percent of total
world cotton output, this points to a 1980 price of about 30.0 U.S. cents
per pound, c.i.f. Liverpool. (See Table 2.)
4.        The expected downward trend reflects a number of assumptions:  (a)
that the current high prices are temporary and reflect a demand-supply im-
balance caused largely by a temporary supply shortage; (b) that in the abs-
ence of a decline in prices production will tend again to outpace consump-
tion by the late seventies; (c) that inter-fiber competition will continue
to limit the growth of cotton consumption but that no major break-through
in man-made fiber technology will greatly accelerate recent substitution
trends; and (d) that price adjustments will take place within the frame-
work of a relatively freer, more competitive market. This in turn implies
continued competition among some 60 exporting countries (many of them
heavily dependent on cotton exports); absence, in future U.S. price support
and cotton export policies, of the elements which made that country a re-
sidual supplier in the world market and led to recurring stock accumulation
in the United States; and, finally, no international cotton agreement.
5.        The future growth of world cotton production depends not only on
the natural supply response to change in price but also - and quite cru-
cially - on the cotton policies of the major producers. The United States
and the USSR account together for almost 39 percent of world cotton pro-
duction. The production policies necessarily influence the growth path of



ANNEX 16
Page 2
world cotton supply. In our supply projections we have taken U.S. cotton
output at about 13 million bales and USSR total output at about 11.5 mil-
lion bales. The combined production share of the two countries would
therefore remain roughly the same as during the past five seasons. Should
the U.S. cotton policy change and output stabilize around 10 million bales
and the USSR output remain at about 10.5 million bales, the projected sur-
plus situation would turn, other things being equal, into one of rough
demand-supply equilibrium and lead to prices 5 percent higher than those
forecast in paragraph 3.
6.        Demand uncertainties, however, call for a certain degree of pru-
dence in forecasting cotton prices. World cotton consumption is projected
to grow at an average annual rate of 1.6 percent during the next ten years.
Even this modest growth rate of cotton consumption presupposes some further
improvement in the quality composition of cotton and progress in promotional
activity and, furthermore, that no new breakthrough in the production of
man-made fibers would occur - and lead to a faster displacement of cotton
by man-made fibers.
7.        World cotton demand remained weak throughout the late sixties, par-
ticularly in developed countries, where the general stagnation of the textile
industry and strong competition from man-made (especially non-cellulosic)
fibers led to a decline in the consumption of cotton. The increase in the
utilization of cotton in developing and centrally planned countries only
partially offset the overall decline in developed countries. Between 1966/
67 and 1971/72 world cotton consumption grew at an average annual rate of
0.9 percent, compared to the 2.2 percent per annum of the preceding 11 years.
8.        Competition from synthetic substitutes, moreover, is by no means
restricted to developed countries. In Central America, South America and
Asia synthetic fibers have already penetrated the market and further inroads
are expected during the next decade. During the past ten years, while cot-
ton's share of world total fiber market fell from nearly 66 to 44 percent, the
market share of man-made fibers increased from 29 to 50 percent. Inter-fiber
competition hinges upon two main factors: relative prices and product perform-
ance. Prices of man-made fibers (especially polyester fibers) declined con-
siderably in the past five years thereby moving price parities in favor of
man-made fibers. Recent high cotton prices, moreover, are likely to accelerate
the trend in substitution of cotton by polyester fibers, particularly in
developed countries. The quality or product performance of man made fibers
is superior to cotton in some crucial end-uses (e.g., apparel) where cotton
lack the "easy-care" properties characteristics of synthetic fibers (alone
or blended with cotton). Although further sharp declines in the prices of
the most important non-cellulosic fibers do not appear very likely in the
short run, the possibility of increased competition from these fibers still
remains quite strong, given the technical advantages that man-made fibers
have in new high-speed spinning and weaving machines. This could seriously
affect cotton demand and slow down its growth to a very modest 1 percent
per annum over the next ten years.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
9.        At projected equilibrium levels of demand, supply and price for
the mid-seventies, world raw cotton exports would experience a growth rate
of around 1.2 percent per annum between 1967-69 and 1975, although developing
countries' exports may grow at a higher rate (between 1.5 and 2.0 percent
per annum). Assuming that world cotton prices move in the late seventies
toward long-term equilibrium levels, world raw cotton exports may continue
to grow throughout the late seventies at approximately the same rate en-
visaged for the earlier period. Export shares, however, become more dif-
ficult to predict, given their dependence on possible future policy actions
by major producing and exporting countries such as the United States and
the USSR.
10.       The export performance and prospects of individual developing coun-
tries will continue to vary depending, inter alia, on availability of land,
trends in yields, quality and marketability of cotton grown, domestic con-
sumption trends and cotton textiles trade balances. Competition among pro-
ducing countries is expected to continue and small producing countries with
limited production alternatives are likely to push output and succeed in
expanding their small shares.
11.       Mexico is a medium-size cotton producer.  It accounts for about
3 percent of world production and 5 percent of world exports. Cotton pro-
duction in Mexico has been declining since the mid-sixties.  (See Table 3.)
Substantial reductions in acreage - particularly intense in some growing
areas such as Mexicali, Altamira, Matamoros and Delicias - were responsible
for the fall in cotton output. Yields, on the contrary, increased regularly
throughout the past 20 years 1/ and somewhat offset the decline in cultivated
areas. (See Chart 1.) Cotton production in Mexico appears to be constrained
by severe competition for land coming from alternative cash crops (e.g., soy
beans, wheat). In 1972/73, in spite of the sharp rise in cotton prices,
acreage increased only marginally over 1971/72 and output actually fell with
respect to the past year. Cotton prices, relative to those of competing
cash crops, will to a great extent determine the future amount of land under
cotton cultivation. Other factors, such as availability of water, will also
have some influence over the choice of crop. Total acreage under cotton
has trended downward throughout most of the post-war period. (See Chart 1.)
Even considering the fact that recent years may have shown a fall in acreage
below the historical trend and assuming continued government encouragement
to cotton cultivation, total area under cotton is projected to be by 1980
only about 1.1 million acres. Yields on the contrary are expected to in-
crease and to reach by the end of the seventies 893 pounds per acre. Total
production of cotton is therefore projected to be by 1980 only slightly
above 2 million bales. (See Table 3.)
1/   From 1951/52 to 1971/72, the trend in cotton yields in Mexico has been
the following: Yield - 274.9 + 20.6 (t)
2           (1.06)
R    .952



ANNEX 16
Page 4
12.       Domestic consumption of textile fibers in Mexico has increased at
over 5 percent per annum during the past 20 years. Man-made fibers consump-
tion grew faster (at some 7.5 percent per annum) but mill consumption of
cotton also expanded at over 4 percent per annum throughout the period. Based
on income projections for the seventies and income elasticities of demand
derived from regression analysis, 1/ cotton consumption in Mexico can be
forecast to grow at an average of 2.0 percent per annum throughout the
seventies and to reach 2 million bales by 1980. (See Table 3.) Exportable
supply of cotton can therefore be estimated to be by 1980 at about 1.0 to
1.1 million bales, only slightly above the average of the past three seasons
and considerably below the levels reached throughout the late fifties and
most of the sixties. Mexico's share of world exports is expected to remain
unchanged with respect to the past three seasons.
Enzo R. Grilli
Commodities and Export
Projections Division
Economic Analysis and
Projections Department
June 29, 1973
1/   Income elasticity of demand for all textile fiber was found to be 0.85,
for man-made fibers 1.60 and for cotton 0.50. Cotton consumption was
forecast individually and as a residual after forecasting total textile
fiber consumption and man-made fiber consumption by 1980. All estimates
converged within a fairly narrow range.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
Table 1: COTTON: RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD PRODUCTION, UTILIZATION AND TRADE
(million bales)
Average
Year Beginning                1958/59-   1963/64   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71    1971/72
August 1                   1962/63
Consumption
United States                 8.7         8.6       9.2        9.5       9.5        9.0       8.2        8.0       8.1         8.0
Western Europe                7.5         7.4       7.2        7.3       7.1        6.7       6.8        6.8       6.8         6.4
Japan                         3.0         3.2       3.4        3.2       3.3        3.4       3.5        3.4       3.2         3.4
Other (excl. c.p.c.)         12.1        13.8      14.5       14.6      15.1       15.8      16.5       17.2      17.3        18.2
Centrally Planned            15.1       14.7       16.       17.4       18.5       18.9      18.9       19.0      19.6        20.0
Wbrld Consumption          46.[4      [77                   52.0       3.7       3.        5j39       54.4      55.0
Production
United States                14.0        15.3      15.2       14.9       9.9        7.2      11.0       10.0      10.3        10.3
Other (excl. c.p.c.)         19.0        22.2      23.0       23.7      22.9       24.0      26.5       25.9      23.5        28.0
Centrally Planned            13_5 12.9              4.8      16.1       17.3       17.8      17.0       16.4       8          18.7
World Production           46.5                   3.0        W.7       36.1      49.°                            2.
Exports
United States                 5.0         5.7       4.1        2.9       4.7        4.2       2.7        2.8       3.7         3.2
Other (excl. c.p.c.)          9.0        1o.4      10.6       11.6      10.7       10.3      11.6       12.3      11.2        12.3
Centrally Planned             1.8         1.8       2.1        2.4       2.5        2.6       2.2        2.4       2.6        _
Wbrld Exports              1T5.       17.9       1.        16.9       17.9       7.1       16.5                 17.5 17.4
Imports
Japan                         3.1         3.2       3.4        3.1       3.6        3.5       3.1        3.5       3.7         3.6
Western Europe                7.0         7.2       6.5        6.8       6.8        6.5       6.5        6.1       5.9         5.9
Other (excl. c.p.c.)          2.8         3.3       3.3        3.4       3.8        3.9       3.7        4.1       4.7         4.5
Centrally Planned                       [4.0       4.3        4.2        .9         3-8       3[7 4.4                          4.3
World Imports              162        17.7       1          1'7.      1.1        17.7      17.0       Ml        187         183
Stocks /1
United States                 8.0       11.2       12.4      14.3        16.9      12.5       6.5        6.5       5.8         4.3
Other Net Exporters           3.7         3.8       3.8        4.2       4.5        4.7       5.3        6.8       6.8         5.6
Net Importers (ex.c.p.c.)/2  5.9          5.8       6.8        6.2       5.9        6.4       7.0        6.6       6.1         5.8
Centrally Planned                        2.5        3.0        36        4.0        4.1       4.1        3.8
World Stocks               20.7       23.3        2.                   31.3      27.7      22.9       23.7        e
Note: World totals may not add exactly due to rounding.
/1 August 1 of first year shown.
/2 Including India and afloat.
13  Stocks on August 1, 1972, are estimated as follows (in million bales):  United States, 3.3; other net exporters, 6.5;
net importers, 6.5; centrally planned countries, 3.9; and world total 20.2.
Source:   International Cotton Advisory Committee, Cotton World Statistics, various issues.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
Table 2: COTTON: RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD PRICES - C.I.F. QMDTATIONS AT LIVERPOOL
(U.S. cents per pound)
Origin              Specification               1965/66    1966/67    1967/68    1968/69      1969/70    1970/71    1971/72
United States    Orleans/Texas Ml"                26.1        25.1        27.5       26.6        26.3       29.7        35.8
United States    Menphis SM 1-1/16"               29.3        28.7        33.8       30.4        29.2       31.8        36.6
United States    California SM 1-3/32"            33.4        n.a.        39.8 LI    33.9        31.3       33.3        38.3
Mxico            SM 1-1/16"                        28.3       29.3 /1    31.9        28.9        29.3        33.1       38.2
Brazil           Sao Paolo Type 5, 1-1/32"         25.0 /1    24.8        27.8 /1    24.5 /I    24.7 Li    30.3 /1    34.8
Pakistan 2       289 F Punjab S.G.                 28.0       26.0        26.3        26.1 /1    27.8        31.3       34.7
Turkey           Ismir St. I White, 1-1/16" RG     28.8       28.3        31.5       29.1        27.4        30.7       36.9
Syria            SM 1-1/16",                       n.a.       28.2        32.2       30.6        28.4       31.1        38.8
Iran             SM 1-1/16"                        28.1 /1    29.0        32.0 L     30.1 Li    28.2        31.4        38.5
Nicaragua        SM 1-1/16"                        27.1       27.6        30.4        27.4 /1    27.3        31.0       36.0
Greece           SM 1-1/16"                        29.1 /1    28.9 /1    31.4        31.4        28.4        31.3       38.7
Uganda /2        B.P. 52                           31.9       32.0        36.7       36.0        31.2        33-9 i    n.a.
u1SR             SM 1-1/16"                       29.0        30.0        33.2       30.4        30.7       33.0        38.2
India /2         Bengal Desi Choice                25.9       21.8        24.1 /1    26.6        27.4        31.9       3O.1
Peru             Tanguis Type 3                    34.0       39.0        37.9       32.6        32.9        38.5       44.2
Peru             Pima No. 1, 1-9/16"               41.2 /1    43.9        47.7 /1    48.1        48.0 11    47.4        4 49.3
Sudan /2         G 5 L                             38.9       33.9        35.2       37.7        38.7       38.8        39.6
Sudan 77         G 5 S                             43.8       38.2        40.7 /1    44.3        44.0       45.2 /1    46.1
UAR              Dendera F.G.                      39.6       40.4        44.7       49.3        49.3       48.5        55.2
UAR             Mbnoufi F.G.                       49.8       51.3        55.8       62.5        63.2       61.2        64.9
n.a. * not available.
/1 Averages for less than twelve months.
2 From 1967/68 on, shipment via Cape.
Source:  International Cotton Advisory Committee, COtton - World Statistics, various issues.



ANNEX 16
Table 3
Table 3: MEXICO'S COTTON SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTIDN
1951/52 TO 1971/72 AND PROJECTIONS TO 1980
Area          Yield      Production   Consumption   Exports
(1,000 acres)   (lb./acre)   (...... ...1,000 balese.........,)
1951/52      2,182           280          1,280         315           981
1952/53      1,937           308          1,250         330           988
1953/54      1,863           312          1,215         330           948
1954/55      2,278           380          1,810         385         1,248
1955/56      2,617           410          2,2142        445         2,018
1956/67      2,157           416          1,877         470         1,3014
1957/58      2,2614          4145         2,106         1480        1,411
1958/59      2,553           4142         2,359         480         1,800
1959/60      1,863           426          1,660         1485        1,298
1960/61      2,234          14149         2,100         500         1,602
1961/62      1,972           482          1,990         510         1,488
1962/63      2,058           557          2,400         515         1,888
1963/64      1,9149          511          2,085         560         1,1419
19614/65     1,941          587           2,385         600         1,608
1965/66      1,959          638           2,615         650         2,118
1966/67      1,733          618           2,240         670         1,386
1967/68      1,703          562           2,000         710         1,233
1968/69      1,787          655           2,1450        685         1,623
1969/70      1,296          646           1,750         685         1,221
1970/71        995          692           1,1440        675           756
1971/72      1,1314          723          1,715         735           905
1980/81
(projected)  1,100          893           2,o50         900        1,100
Source: International Cotton Advisory Committee, Cotton - Wbrld
Statistics (various issues); and IBRD, Economic Analysis
and Projections Department.



I



ANNEX 16
Chart 1
CHART 1: COTTON, PLANTED AREA AND YIELDS IN MEXICO
(1951/52- 1971/72)
THOUSAND ACRES                                                                                                                   LB/PER ACRE
2800                                                                                                                             1000
2600 -                                                                                                                           900
2400                                                                                                                              800
2200                                                               i                                                             700
EA6A  (Left Sale)
2000                                                                                                                           -~600
1800                                                           1                                                               -  500
1600                         YIELD (Right Scale)                                                                                  400
1400                                                                                                                              3 -  | 400
1200                                                                                                                              200
1000                                                                                                                           -~100
0r                         I    I    I            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I                               ^
1951  '52   '53  '54   '55  '56   '57  '58  '59 '60   '61  '62  '63  '64   '65   '66  '67   '68  '69  '70  '71
'52  '53   '54  '55   '56  '57  '58   '59  '60   '61   '62  '63  '64 '65   '66   '67  '68   '69  '70   '71   '72
VVorlco B.nk-7852






ANNEX 17
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Marketing
1.   Organizations.  The marketing system, particularly that serving the
private sector, is very highly organized in Sinaloa State. This has resulted
from the existence of the other older large irrigation projects in the state
such as the El Fuerte (185,000 ha) and Culiacan (130,000 ha). The main or-
ganizations involved in marketing are the following:
CAADES (Confederacion de Asociaciones Agricolas del Estado de Sinaloa),
a private organization serving only the private land owners, all of which
belong. It carries out marketing studies, furnishes marketing information
to members and organizes the marketing for them both internally and for ex-
port. It also serves as a cooperative to supply seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides to members.
CONAEUPO (Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares), a government
organization with the responsibility to regulate the market for mainly grains,
legumes and oilseeds. It guarantees minimum prices to the producer and pur-
chases large quantities of the products it is empowered to regulate. It then
stores and carries out the further distribution and marketing, both internally
and for export. It is the primary outlet for the ejidatario.
The Rice Marketing Committee, which consists of the producers and rice
millers, operates like a marketing board, and, while national in scope, is
most active in Sinaloa State. The rice producers are obligated by law to
sell through this organization. The main function is to determine the price
of processed rice as well as of paddy in order to achieve some degree of mono-
polization. This is possible because a large portion of the rice production
in Mexico is centered in the State of Sinaloa.
National Union of Chickpea Producers, a national organization but most
active in Sinaloa State. Marketing of chickpeas through the Union is obliga-
tory. The main function of the Union is to regulate sales.
2.        Processing Facilities and Marketing Channels.  CAADES operates modern
facilities for storage, cleaning and drying of grains and oilseeds at Los Mochis.
The capacity of 30,000 tons is adequate to serve its members. CONASUPO operates
similar type facilities for the non-CAADES members but they are less adequate
to meet the needs. Both organizations handle the further marketing of the
grains and oilseeds.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
3.        At present fruit and vegetable marketing is organized by the private
farmers.  A separate sorting, packing, pre-cooling and storage center is esta-
blis'<ed adjacent to the fields for approximately each 400 ha of tomatoes. For
the export market, transportation to Nogales, Arizona, is usually by large
refrigerated trucks. At Nogales, the vegetables pass customs inspections,
go through sanitary control and are handed over to American distributors who
carry out the furt'aer marketing. The crop not exported is either sold locdl.y
as fresh or soid to fruit processors for dor.estic consumption.
4.        There are several cotton gins in the region.  All are privately
owned, some by American firms such as Anderson and Clayton and others under
local ownership. Seed cotton is normally purchased by the gin, which then
markets the lint and the seed.
5.        There are 19 rice mills in the State of Sinaloa that have an annual
capacity of 130,000 tons. The mills normally purchase the paddy and market
the processed rice.
6.        Market Prospects.  Table 1 gives data on Mexican production of crops
to be grown on the Sinaloa project and compares them to the internal demand
for such crops to determine national surpluses or deficiencies. Table 2 gives
an historic analysis of vegetable production for export in Sinaloa State and
illustrates the upward trend in such production. Table 3 gives a projection
of production of various crops and shows the magnitude of the project-projected
production as related to the national production.
7.        Following is an analysis of the market outlook in 1980 for crops
expected to be produced on the project. Since all crops shown as import sub-
stitutes reflect projections of continued Mexican deficiencies, they should
find ready markets within Mexico.
Beans                Export product.
Vegetables           Better quality for export, balance for
internal sale or processing. Virtually
all is exported to the U.S., but the ca-
pacity of this market is limited. The
Commodities and Export Projections Divi-
sion of the Economic Analysis and Projec-
tion Department of the Bank made an analy-
sis of projected U.S. demands. Projected
production from the project has been limited
by the potential market and further by the
project's share. Only 6,000 ha are con-
sidered.
Sesame               Import substitute.
Soybeans             Import substitute.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Corn (maize)        Mexico will probably remain a net exporter
of corn.  However, most project production
would be for local consumption.
Rice                 Mexico will probably be just self-
sufficient in rice.
Cotton               Export crop (see Annex 16 for outlook).
Safflower            While projections indicate a possible
Mexican surplus, safflower is treated as
an import substitute since it is a sub-
stitute for other vegetable oils which
are in overall. short supply.
Chick peas           Import substitute
Sorghum              Mexico should be about self-sufficient.
Melons               Export crop.  Tnis is subject to the
same considerations as those given vege-
tables.  The project's share of the ex-
port potential is limited to 1,000 ha.
Wheat                Import substitute.
Alfalfa and
Fruits              Local consumption.
Prices
8.        Farmgate prices in Mexico are highly influenced by Government
policies such as import and export taxes, import prohibitions or controls,
and minimum support prices, which may include a subsidy element to encourage
export or production. Table 4 gives the prices used for financial purposes
and they reflect the best estimate of what the producer would receive
before taxes under project conditions using 1971-72 price levels.
9.        Economic prices are considered to be different from the farmgate
prices since the former should reflect the contribution of the project to
the economy of the country during the life of the project. Projections of
1980 international commodity prices were furnished by the Economics Depart-
ment of the Bank for various points of major supply of each commodity to
be produced on the project. For export products, the economic price was
measured directly by the projected CIF price of the import country. The
cost of freight and insurance was then deducted to obtain an FOB price in
Mexico. In some cases, FOB prices in Mexico were used directly. Local port
expenses and transportation, marketing and processing costs were then deducted



ANNEX 17
Page 4
to derive the economic price at the project site. The contribution of import
substitutes to the economy was judged by the alternative of imports of the
product in lieu of production on the project. After calculating the CIF
Mexico price, local port costs were added and processing costs deducted to
derive the economic price for such products. For products that are neither
export or import substitution, the assumed 1980 farmgate price has been used.
Table 4 shows the farmgate prices used in the financial analysis, the pro-
jected international prices, and the adopted economic price.
July 12, 1973



AN-.EX 17
Tab le 1
MEXICO
SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Analysis of the Projected Local Market of Grains, Pulses, Oilseeds and Cotton
Product      Year         Net         Internal
Production!'   Demand             Surpluses-Z                   Deficiencies 2/
(ton)         (ton)       ton       % of Production      ton    % of Production
Cotton lint       1976         575,360      336,963   238,397              41.4          -
1982        555,640      454,571   101,069              18.2          -
Rice              1976         463,595     429,435    34,160                7.4          -
1982        546,438      540,716      5,722              1.0          -               -
Wheat             1976       2,688,000   2,757,925        -                  -        69,925            2.6
1982      3,360,000   3,558,915        -                  -        198,915           5.9
Maize             1976      11,200,741  10,226,785   973,756                8.7          -               -
1982     13,249,533  12,385,343   864,190                6.5          -
Sorghum           1976       3,358,200   3,147,787   210,413                6.3          -               -
1982      4,188,100   4,205,175        -                  -         17,075           0.4
Beans             1976       1,188,880      930,707   258,173              21.7          -               -
1982      1,447,500   1,105,050   342,450               23.6          -                -
Chick peas        1976         215,699      254,786       -                  -         39,087          18.1
1982        265,140      313,395       -                   -        48,255          18.2
Soybeans          1976         351,695      370,850       -                  -         19,155           5.2
1982        488,185      608,952       -                  -        120,767          24.7
Sesame            1976         183,631      235,297       -                  -         51,666          28.1
1982        210,903      306,930       -                   -        96,027          45.5
Safflower         1976         263,250      211,554    51,696              19.6          -               -
1982        312,000      288,546    23,454               7.5          -                -
Cotton seeds      1976         900,705   1,315,413        -                  -        414,708          46.0
1982        898,014   1,663,887        -                   -       765,873          85.3
1/ Gross production minus waste.
2/ Compared to the internal demand.
Soiarce:  Caracteristica de la Agricultura Mexicana y Proyecciones de la Demanda y la Oferta de Productos
Agropecuarios a 1976 y 1982 by Manuel Rodriguez Cisneroe.
July 24, 1973



June 21, 1973                                           NIEXICO
RIO SINAIOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production for Export and Value -/ of Tomato, Chili, Cucumbers and Melon in the Si.naloa State
1966-67                1267-68                1968-69               11969-70                190-71
Product      Quantity    Value      Quantity    Value      Quantity    Vplue      Quantity    Value      Quantity    Value
(ton) (Mqex$ 'Coo)    (to)  (Mex$ '000)       (ton) (Mex$ '000)   (ton)- (Mex$ '000)   (ton)' L]tex$ ' 00
Tomato          168,936    585,736    163,052       720,209    196,042    795,678    246,855  1,0.53,288   239,646   1,337,609
Chili            11,370      55,742      9,570       39,695     17,039      59,801     25,854    239,606    34,245       257,610
Cucumbers        23,504h    86,537      19,383       8O,114    32,306    118,395      37,013    167,236    58,408       198,310
Melon            29,568      95,871      9,281       24,062     15,650      58,996     15,415      49,637    18,922       60,368
1/ Export prices FOB Nogales.
Source:  Anlisis de la Situacion Agricola de Sinaloa, Buletin Bimestral CAADES.
9,t
HItR



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Project, State of Sinaloa and National Production of Grains, Pulses, Oilseeds and Cotton
Product       Sinaloa State        National             National Projected    Project Production at Full DbveIopment
Production 1/        Production 2/        Production  v/(ton)          Quantities      Percentage of
1968/69              1968               1976            1982            (ton)       National Pro-
(ton)              (ton)                                                          jected Produc-
tion for 1982
Cotton            148,805          1,599,894          1,555,027    1,501,729           42,500              2.8
Rice              164,462             347,249            482,911      569,206          28,000              4.9
Wheat             161,680          1,780,057           2,800,000    3,500,000          63,000              1.8
Maize              46,016           9,061,823        11,667,439   13,801,597           24,000              0.2
Sorghum           252,997           2,132,619          3,480,000    4,340,000          40,5oo              0.9
Beans              42,951             856,939         1,232,000    1,500,000           16,000              1.1
Chick peas          2,767             17 9,3.44          221,230       271,938          5,100              1.9
Soybeans          61,1460            188,450 1/         380,200 3/  536,600 1/        33,600               6.3
Sesame             6,171             159,060            189,310       217,426          3,000               1.4
Safflower          52,202             102,145            270,000      320,000          17,000              5.3
Alfalfa          122,400 4/         7,644,718        11,772,000   15,057,000           36,000              0.2
1/   Source:  Boletin Bimestral CAADES*
-.   2/   Source:  Caracteristicas de la Agricultura Mexicana by Manuel R.  Cisneros.
9     3/   Total availability (including local production, import and stock).
'@'   14/   Estimation for 1971-72 season-.
'PF



ANNEX 1
Table 14
MEXICO
RIO SINALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices                      Economic Farnmgate
Mex$/Ton                    1980'Projected Prices
Farm gate              Ihtemational    Expressed in 1972
(Financial)                19802          Values
Average of Actital Prices
1971-72
Seed cotton                  2,700                                       2,280
Cotton lint                    -                    8,ooo 1/ 2/
Cotton seeds                   -1,25  1/ 2/
Rice                         1,150                  1,750 1/ 3/          i,o4o
WIheat                         850                    812 1/ 4/          1,100
Maize                          960                    775 1/ 5/             530
Sorghum                        680                    700 1/ 5/             75°
Beans                        2,000                  2,750 1/              2,500
Chick peas                   2,000                    -                   2,000
Soybeans                     1,920                  1,375 1/ 2/          1,100
Sesame                       2,800                  2,875 1/ 2/          2,300
Safflower                    1,720                  1,000 1/ 2/          1,200
Tomatoes                     2,720                  5,437 6/              2,850
Melons                       1,920                  3,687 6/             1,980
Alfalfa                        400                    -                     4)0
I/  Current 1980 prices
CIF Europe.
/ FOB Thailand.
/ FOB Manitoba, Canada.
FOB Gulf Ports, U.S.
' Nogales
Note: The Economics and Analysis Projection Department has revised the projections
of international prices to reflect more recent world prices. These will be
incorporated in the gray cover.
July 16, 1973



ANNEX 18
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farmer's Income
1.         In the project area 12 to 15 different crops would be grown and
there would be an endless variety of cropping patterns within the totaal
number of farms, in addition to the usual annual variation on each individual
farm. For practical reasons, each farmer would grow only a limited number
of crops and the crop selection would include fewer crops on the smaller than
on the larger farms. In view of this, and because no specific cropping
patterns by typical farms can be presented for the years following completion
of project construction in 1978, the projected average farmers' income per ha
at fuil development is based on an area of 1,000 ha which is large enough
to assume that the whole range of potential crops would be grown in propor-
tions as shown in Annex 14. A typical 1,000 ha ejido farm budget is given
in Table 1 and shows a net income per ha of Mex$2,700. Thus a 5 ha farmer
would have an average net income before water charges of Mex$13,500 and a
10 ha farmer Mex$27,000. The budget assumes that ejidatarios with the
assistance of SRH and other Government agencies would gradually develop
their organization sufficiently to include high value crops in their cropping
pattern. In the analysis it is assumed that the ejidatarios would gradually
account for 20 percent of the vegetable production in the project area,
the extent and timing being dependent on the effectiveness of the Government
measures on organizational and marketing assistance to ejidatarios. By
1978, when SRH is expected to have its first socio-economic study completed,
a realistic projection for income levels would be possible.
2.         The same concept is used in determining an average per ha net
return for private farmers which is shown on Table 2. The 1,000 ha unit is
again chosen to reflect average cropping mixes so an average return per ha
may be developed. Since most of the vegetables and fruits are now grown by
the private farmers and they have established the packing and transportation
facilities, and markets for such produce, it is assumed that most future
vegetables and fruit production would be by the private sector. Thus the
per ha net value of production is higher and is estimated at Mex$10,200 per
ha or about 3.7 times higher than that of the average ejidatario. Actually
this is an average. Private farmers growing by the same crops as ejidatarios
would have the same per ha return as an ejidatario and farmers concentrating
on vegetables would earn considerably more than Mex$10,200/ha. A typical
average 20 ha private farmer, however, would then have a net income before
water charges of Mex$204,000.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
3.         Table 3 shows the approximate assignment of the net production
value shown in annex 14 for with and without project condition between
ejidatarios and the private farmers. It also shows the incremental per ha
income for the two groups. The assumption concerning assignment of most
vegetable production to the private farmers accounts for the appreciable
difference in net value of production per ha shown for the private farmers.
4.         Taxes paid by the farmers are very appreciable and have been
accounted for as an element in the cost of production detailed in annex 15.
Taxes paid are detailed by crop in table 4. Most of the taxes are assessed
on the basis of production (i.e. per ton of production) and average about
Mex$100 per ton of production. The taxes paid at present are about Mex$9
million per year. With the project, these are estimated at about Mex$48 or
an increment of Mex$39 which is an increase in taxes attributable to the
increased production from the project.



MEXTCO
RIO SIIALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production and Income
C
g                                                1,000 ha Ejido Complex
(D
Gross
Cropped                                      Production        Production       Net Value of
Area       Yields        Production           Value             Cost           Production
Crops           (ha)       (kg/ha)      (metric tons)      (Mex$'000)       (Mex$'oOO)         (Mex$'000)
Beans            137        1,600               219             438               240                198
Vegetables         12      20,000               240             672               264               1408
Soybeans          254       2,100               533           1,023               559                464
Corn               29       3,000                87              84                61                 23
Rice              66        4,000               272             313               190                123
Cotton            166       2,500               415           1,121               697                424
Safflower         73        1,700               124             213               102                111
Chickpeas          29       1,700                149             98                47                 51
Sorghum           39        4,500               176             120                81                 39
Wheat             161       3,500                564             479              309                170
Others            292      14,000              4,088          2,096                                  695
Total       1,260 ha                                       6,657            3,951               2,706
Physical area (ha) 1,000
Cropping intensity   126%                                    Net income Mex$2,700 per hectare
CD



MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production and Income
o                                           1,000 Ha - Private Fanmers Complex
&                                                                          Gross
CD
Cropped                                          Production           Production    Net Value at
Area          Yields         Prodaction            Value                Cost         Production
CROPS             (ha)          (kg/ha)        (metric tons)      (Mex$'000)            (Mex$'000)      (Mex$'002)
4    Vegetables         200            20,000           4.,000            11,200                4,400           6,800
Sesamne           120             1,000             120               336                   198             138
Corn              250             3,000             750                720                  525             195
Safflower         100             1,700             170                292                  140             152
Sorghum           210             4,500             945               643                   43              209
Melons              20           16,000             320                614                  200             414
Wheat              60             3,500             210                178                  115              63
Alfalfa            20            12,000             240                 96                   64              32
Others            280             4,oo0           1,120              3 331                1,124           2 207
Total                             L7T                                                                T 7,200 
Physical area   1,000
Cropping                                                                   Net income Mex$10,200 per hectare
intensity      126%
co:c



ANNEX 18
Tab]e 3
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farmers Income
Without Project
Net Value of Production
Type               Number             Physical       Total
Area      Mex$'000                   Mex$/ha
Ejidatarios        l0,543             68,800          17.0                      25O
Private               937             313200          27.2                      872
Total         11,h80            100,000          4L.2        (ave)          4h2
With Project
Ejidatarios        12,263             81,126         219.5                    2,706
Private               937             18,874         192.9                   10,220
Total         13,200            100,000         412.4                    4,124
Incremental
Ejidatarios         1,720   +         12,326         202.5                    2,h56
Private                 0   -         12,326         165.7                    9,346
Total      +  1,720                0           368.2        (ave)        3,682
1/   It is assumed that all private farmers would opt to continue operations in
the project area on 20-ha farms and all land expropriated from them would be
allocated to new 10-ha ejidal farms.



ANNEX 1B
Table 4
MEXICO
RIO SINDALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Private Farmer Taxation1/
Mex$ per ha.2/
Products       Yield at         Sinaloa       CAADES 4/     Federal        Total
Fu:Ll Production    State  3/                 Government >/
(ton/ha )
Beans            1.6              132.36       13.76            33.42     179.54
Vegetables      20.0            1,226.60      452.40         1,185.57   2,864.57
Sesame           1.0              115.18       14.70             5.33     135.21
Soybeans         2.1              160.24       20.16            10.26     190.66
Corn             3.0             115.11        12.60           17.46      145.17
Rice             4.0              369.43       34.40           30.25      434.08
cotton           2.5             353.50        43.00           69.94      466.44
Safflower        1.7              126.11       16.30            10.61     153.02
Chick peas       1.7              152.00       20.23              - 6/   172.23
Sorghum          4.5              126.67       18.90            12.14     157.71
Melons          16.0              900.98      280.00        1,129.75   2,310.73
Wheat            3.5              155.83       22.40             8.40     186.63
Alfalfa         12.0              263.40         _                - 6/   263.40
3/.  The ejidatarios Day the same taxes as the private farmers, exeept for
property  tax of Mbx$22   per ha and the CAADES Payments.
2/. Derived by multiplying tax rate per ton by estimated yield, or using the per
hectare rate.
3/. Including the following taxes: general, additional, feeder roads,
property tax, agriculture extension and research, plant pathology,
university contribution and municipal education. Except for the property
tax which is Mex22   per ha and plant pathology which is Mex$5   per ha
all the other payments in this category are paid according to the production
(per ton).
la   This payment is obligatory for only the private farmers; the payment is
per ton of production.
i/   Including general tax for all the products, export tax only for exported
vegetables and melons. The taxes in this category are per ton of production.
6/  Not available.
July 24, 1973



ANNEX 19
Page 1
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Assumptions
1.        The following assumptions have been used in calculating the econo-
mic rate of return of the project:
(a) Agricultural Prices. The prices used are the 1980 projected eco-
nomic prices described in Annex 17, Marketing and Prices.
(b) Labor Costs. Shadow price for the labor input was used in the
economic analysis, since the official salaries are considered higher than
the opportunity cost of labor in view of the considerable under-employment
of the Mexican rural sector. The shadow price was evaluated as 50% of the
official salary in the region. 1/
(c) Development Schedule. Physical construction of the project would
be completed in five years. Full agricultural benefits would be reached in
eight years.
(d) Project Costs. The investments and their timing are as shown in
Annexes 7 and 9. No assignment of cost has been made to the future hydro-
powet functions. The land acquisition and price contingencies were deducted
to give the economic investment cost. Operation and maintenance costs are
shown in Annex 11. The operation and maintenance cost stream has been in-
creased from present to project conditions according to the area actually ir-
rigated each year. Only the incremental operation and maintenance cost is
considered an economic cost.
(e) Project Life. The project life has been taken as 40 years for
analysis purposes.
(f) Project Benefits. These have been calculated considering the
economic farmgate prices (Annex 17) and the development schedule (Annex 13).
Project economic benefits are defined as the increments over the benefits
obtainable without the project. Only direct benefits and their corresponding
costs were considered. The loss of production in the flooded Bacurato Reser-
voir area (Annex 4) was considered negligible. Annex 14 shows the incremen-
tal net value of production based on current farmgate prices. These values
have been adjusted for the economic evaluation by applying the economic prices
1/   Nacional Financiera has adopted the above criteria for use by agencies
such as SgH in, evaluating projects as reflecting the Mexican employment
situation.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
for produce outlined in Annex 17 and eliminating the taxes paid from the pro-
duction cost used in Annexes 14 and 15 and making the above adjustment in
labor costs. The net value of production on financial and economic terms
is as follows:
Mex$'000
Financial            Economic
Net Value of Production with Project            412,367              458,000
Net Value of Production without Project         44,180                74,000
Net Value of Production Incremental             368,187              384,000
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
2.        The economic rate of return is 17%.  The cost and benefit streams
are shown in Table 1. To measure the sensitivity of the evaluation to devia-
tions from the basic assumptions, the following tests were performed:
Assumption                              Rate of Return
(a) Construction period extended to six
years, investment costs increased by
15% and incremental benefit starting
in 6th instead of 5th year                              14%
(b)  Benefits decreased by 25%                               13%
(c) Full labor costs valued at official
salary rate                                             13%
(d)  Benefits increased by 25%                               20%
None of the above mentioned pessimistic assumptions have resulted in an
internal rate of return of less than 12%, which is considered as the oppor-
tunity costs of capital for similar activities in Mexico.
July 17, 1973



ANNEX 19
Table I
MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Cost and Benefit Streams
(Mex$ Million)
Without Project               With Project
Net                  Net
Return   0 and M    Return                  0 and M  Incremental
Year    from    Costs        from   Investments   Costs        Stream
ProJect              Proj ect
1      74      2.5          74        65          2.5          - 65
2      74      2.5          74       311          2.5          -311
3      74      2.5          74       441          2.5          -441
4      74      2.5          74       481          2.5          -448
5      74      2.5         155       216         15.4          -148
6      74      2.5         332         0         21.1           239
7      74      2.5         424         0         26.7           326
8-40     74      2.5         458          0        32.5           354
July 17, 1973






MEXICO
R10 SIOALOA IRRIGATION
THE EM10DE0T OF THE REFUDLIC
|    SE CRETARY  OI Tt ECtTATR RE OURCES
THE COMMISSION OP P          -AEALSN            -
| ltCOO  OSSSASIN OF TtRE VfAf. RIVER                  _|    RVT  ERfRr                                          TCI  AERTlt
TIE!          .R TRAOCMTATIINORTO AS QO.M.RIO
f TIE CSMNltSI  OF C RI A      L  VA                  _
|  -ER CDMSSII OR 0 T.O *AS1N OF MEXICO VALLEY                                   OF TP PRES                       OIMS      OR
T hE CANSSISSION DF THE STUDIES OF THE PAStIES RIVEX 2   t
'-' COIIUISP,AN OF TOE CT'L.ZAYION OP SALINE WVATER    -tt_                                                     *EINCLOSUTTE 
_- D'                                                         IAR  0T-
G.
PI-'r                 TPCII.--.                                        PLIAT                TECHNICAL                                        P  RIVATE            TCICL                         |                    RIVATE              T  ECI-&CA1
I sEc=ET>=*   r   7   ASSStA ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ SCRETV                     SSLTAN                                          SECRETARY  Ar   ITAP.                                                  SECIEPTAS'            AS|S4STANT 
TIES ~ ~     ~         ~         ~       ~        |     S*OIIoR. To505                                                                  | A.515  S  o,S  A  OI  TEO,,I TE  OSbIIR  Thp 0505  TEEII"           |CItIS  Tbl SoSR|  Ct SM






MEXICO
RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION
E l, '  C,    |   UER           E  l
| 5EcaCTAnY OF snH | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ Vw                     '






IBRD 10307
,.-   10 CHIHUAHUA                                                                                                   .             ,                ,                                                          JULY 1U973|
0                                            1                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  EE11
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAO DENJO                                                            L ,     , 
IA                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
MEXICO                                                            -- + & <//..9N 
RIO  SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                 /!,-  
to~ ~~ -1-                                                                                                           fi+/t                      ' 
- _ RIVEES < 3 = g / ( X \ o; , j.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV E lS
IWIECT 10- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
---   INTEATTBSOUAL EOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                               ROLACA//J. ,<'2i RSIATDSAN FEV
KAILOVETES                                                                                                                             R Ir
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  O   IA   DRECHA                                         ___|   I_______________________________D__h-   SCA____IS_______________________r_____



