Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18649
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 4280-UR
December 3, 1998
Finance. Private Sector & Infrastructure (FPSI)
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Uruguayan Peso
US$1.00                    UR$10 (October 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFAP                 Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro y Prevision
(Pension Fund Administrator)
AFPs                 Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
(Chilean Pension Fund Administrators)
BCU                  Banco Central del Uruguay
(Central Bank of Uruguay)
BPS                  Banco de Prevision Social
(Public Pension Administration Agency)
BROU                 Banco de la Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay
(State Bank of Uruguay)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CSAL                 Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
DB                   Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
DC                   Defined Contribution Pension Scheme
ESW                  Economic Sector Work
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MERCOSUR             Mercado del Cono Sur
(Common Market of the Southern Cone)
PAYG                 Pay-as-you-go Pension System
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL                Sector Adjustment Loan
URs                  Wage adjusted pesos
Vice President:                 Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director LCC7C:                   Ms. Myrna Alexander
Director LCSFP:                    Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:                       Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page number
Preface                                                                          ii
Evaluation Sumnmary                                                             iv
Part One     Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Implementation Assessment
I.  Background.                                                                  I
II.    Program Objectives.                                                       2
III.         Achievement of Program Objectives.                                  3
IV.          Major Factors Affecting the Program.                                8
V.           Program Sustainability.                                             9
VI.   Bank Performance .11
VII.    Borrower Performance .11
VIII.   Assessment of Outcome .12
IX.   Future Operations .12
X.   Lessons Learned .13
Part Two   Statistical Annex of ICR Tables .15
Appendixes
A. Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
B. Evolution of Aggregate AFAP Industry Portfolio
C. ICR Mission's Aide-memoire
D. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (English & Spanish)
E. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
CONT]RACTUAL SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 4280-UR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Contractual Savings
Structural Adjustment Program in Uruguay, for which Loan 4280-UR in the amount of US$100
million was approved on February 3, 1998 and made effective on May 26, 1998. The single
tranche loan was fully disbursed upon effectiveness, and closed on June 30, 1998.
The ICR. was authored by Mr. Truman Packard, Economist (Consultant), under the
supervision of Ms. Mariluz Cortes, Senior Operations Officer (LCSFP) of the Latin America and
Caribbean Regilon, and was reviewed by Ms. Maria Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Officer
(LCSFP). The borrower provided comments that have been incorporated to the ICR and are
reproduced unedited in an appendix to the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission to Montevideo,
August 31 - September 4, 1998. The report is based on material in the project file, interviews
with key participants in the loan's preparation, the implementation team's counterparts, and the
findings of earlier Bank studies of the pension system and financial sector in Uruguay.






IV.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Loan No. 4280-UR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1. Of the programs in Uruguay's historically broad welfare system, its public pension scheme -
the oldest mandatory pension system in the region - has been the most demanding on public
resources. Rising life expectancy, a low retirement age, overly generous benefits, and widespread
evasion, inflated the country's implicit pension debt to 300 percent of GDP - one of the highest in
the world, and a clear indicator of the urgent need for reform.
2. After nearly thirteen years of intense public debate a new Social Security Reform Law was
passed in September 1995 that introduced a multi-pillar pension structure, by reducing and
restructuring the public pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system, and adding a complementary regime of
independently managed, individually capitalized accounts. The reform's central objective was to
establish a more financially viable system of social security, and in the long run, to reduce the
Government's future pension liability. The implementation of Uruguay's pension reform was
supported with an adjustment loan from the IDB of US$150 million. The new multi-pillar system
came into effect in April 1996.
3. Although beneficial to the overall economy and to the Government's fiscal stance in the long
term, the reform incurred significant short term costs and losses to the PAYG system. In light of
the initial high costs, the most important challenge to the Government has been to maintain its
medium-term strategy for restructuring the national pension system, while avoiding a reversal of
the progress it has made in reducing the country's consolidated fiscal deficit. The Contractual
Savings Structural Adjustment Loan (CSAL), for US$100 million, has supported the
Government's efforts to strengthen the second-pillar capitalization regime, while easing the fiscal
impact of thie transition.  The lending instrument chosen for the CSAL to support the
Government's medium-term reform agenda, was a single-tranche adjustment operation (STO) -
the first in a proposed series of such operations in Uruguay.
Program Objectives
4. Based on an medium-term strategy agreed between the Government and the Bank, this loan
was the first iin a planned series of operations to support Uruguay's pension reform program, and
complementary capital market reforms. The long-term aim of the program is to maximize the
pension benefits provided by the capitalization regime by; (a) increasing the supply of high return
marketable securities to improve the financial performance of theAdministradoras de Fondos de
Ahorro Previsional (AFAPs); (b) spurring competition and creating incentives for the fund
managers to reduce their operating costs; and (c) stimulating development of the private capital
markets.
5. The CSAL's specific objectives were to support measures taken by the Government to: (i)
liberalize the investment regime governing the AFAPs to allow greater investment in private



V.
securities; (ii) increase the availability of private securities to match the growth of pension funds;
and (iii) create incentives to improve cost-consciousness and transparency in disclosure among
the AFAPs. These objectives are seen as essential steps in an incremental reform process that
will lead to greater returns on the investment of retirement savings, cuts indistortionary pay-roll
taxes, reductions in evasion of pension contributions, and accelerated development of the private
capital market.
Implementation Experience
6.     When the new capitalization regime and the AFAP industry came into full operation,
investment regulation was heavily biased towards government securities. Initially, the fund
managers were obliged to invest at least eighty percent of retirement savings in government
issues. With the objective of relaxing a potential constraint on the AFAPs' investment activity,
and of stimulating financial sector development, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to take
advantage of a provision in the 1995 Social Security Law allowing for yearly reductions of five to
ten percent in the minimum required AFAP investment in government instruments. An important
condition of the loan was the acceleration of these reductions. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Borrower issued an Executive Decree on March 4, 1998, providing for
scheduled reductions that, by April 1999, will have lowered the portion of required AFAP
investment in government instruments to fifty-five percent.
7.     However, the calculation of the AFAPs' required reserves originally stipulated excluded
their holdings of government bonds, making investment in public debt attractive. The Borrower's
commitment to gradually lower the minimum required investment in government securities
would have little impact if not accompanied by changes in how required reserves were calculated.
As a condition of Board presentation, a draft bill of law introducing changes in the calculation of
the AFAPs' reserves to include government securities, was submitted to Parliament in December
1997. The bill is currently being deliberated by a senatorial commission, and the authorities
expect it to be passed in late 1998 or early 1999.
8.    In order to widen the supply and availability of investment instruments to keep pace with
the rapid accumulation of retirement funds in the AFAP system, the authorities have initiated
changes in financial regulation with the support of the CSAL. The authorities recognized that the
development of a domestic risk-rating industry would be critical to AFAP investment.
Authorization of at least one risk-rating agency became a condition of Board presentation. Since
the loan was disbursed five risk-rating agencies have begun operating in Uruguay. Of the five,
three are international risk-qualifiers. To date, four private issues have been rated; two by
domestic private banks, and two by private agro-industries.
9.     Additionally, the Borrower issued a decree in December 1997, allowing AFAPs to invest
in bonds issued by public enterprises and by private companies holding public concessions, to
finance large infrastructure projects.  Although the decree is an important step, financial
authorities have identified a number of clauses that could introduce distortions to the market for
the proposed infrastructure bonds. A second decree is being prepared to refine the guidelines
established in the first, and is expected to be issued in late 1998 or early 1999.
10.   The special pension bonds introduced with the 1996 reform specifically for the AFAPs,
were originally issued in URs at a rate of interest set by the BCU, and forbidden to other
investors. In mid 1997, Parliament passed a law allowing the BCU to issue the bonds in a wider
range of currencies at market rates. Further, the law permits all actors in the financial sector to
transact these instruments. Since the law's passage, there have been two issues of the new bonds.



vi.
The opening of the pension bond market has made the instruments more attractive to the AFAPs,
and allowed a secondary market in the pension bonds to develop.
11.   In response to the investment needs of the AFAPs, the BCU has modified its debt issuing
policies to prov ide a wider variety of public bonds. These include: (i) bonds with fixed rates of
interest, (ii) issues in dollars at fixed rates with longer maturities, (iii) bonds in pesos with higher
returns, (iv) instruments issued on the international market offering greater liquidity, and (v) the
proposed fixed-iincome instruments indexed for inflation. Authorities hope that theBCU's efforts
to cater to AFAP investment demand will complement and not crowd-out the development of
private instruments.
12.    Within the framework of the CSAL, financial authorities have been fielding two critical
legislative initiatives that would allow the introduction of new asset classes onto the financial
arena. In Septemrber 1997, as a condition of Board presentation, the authorities submitted a draft
Securitization Law to Parliament that would permit the packaging of assets such as mortgages
and credit card receivables into tradable securities. Of the bill's fifty separate articles, only ten
have been discussed and accepted. Financial authorities have held weekly discussions with the
Commission since April 1998 to explain and promote the measure, but do not expect final
passage until laite 1998 or early 1999. A more elaborate Trust Law that would expand the range
of permissible securitization of assets even further, has also been drafted. The passage of the
Trust Law and its insertion into the broader regulatory framework will require controversial
modifications of the country's Civil Code. The authorities prefer to wait until the Securitization
Law is passed to introduce the farther-reaching and more controversial draft Trust Law to public
debate.
13.   In the period since its inception, the new capitalization regime in Uruguay exhibited some
of the common structural limitations that have constrained the efficiency of fund managers in
other Latin Amrerican countries. A number of measures were taken by the Government, with
support of the C'SAL, to try and correct these limitations to provide incentives for efficiency gains
and greater transparency. As a condition of Board presentation, the BCU issued regulations
requiring the use of market mechanisms for AFAP investment in securities issued by related
companies. The requirement that all AFAP investment be conducted through formal markets is
the first significant step toward introducing transparency to financial transactions between the
fund managers and their related companies.
14.   Until recently the AFAPs were only required to report gross returns. This less-than-full
disclosure of performance kept affiliates from making a fully informed choice between fund
managers, and opened the new system to political attack. The Bank assisted the Government in
setting a formula to calculate returns net of commissions that reflect the AFAPs' expected
performance in the long-run. The new formula improves the information received by workers on
the relative performance of their fund managers, while reducing the likelihood of myopic reaction
against the new system on the part of affiliates and opposition leaders in Parliament.
15.   Although not included as a condition of the CSAL, the authorities decided to modify the
structure of the 'fondos de fluctuaci6n". In Uruguay the mechanism had encouraged herd-
behavior in investment allocation, and dampened competition between the fund managers by
disguising their' true relative performance. In July 1997, authorities issued regulations modifying
the thresholds for deposit into and withdrawal from the fluctuations funds, widening the band
around the industry's average return. They hope that this modification will induce greater
competition based on investment performance.



vii.
Performance
16.   Borrower performance in the identification, preparation and implementation of the loan,
was highly satisfactory. The contribution made by the Bank's counterparts to the preparation and
execution of the CSAL was considerable, given the enormous demands on their time.
Furthermore, the Bank team benefited from the close proximity of their counterparts to decision-
makers in the administration. The Bank was able to count on a small, core team of financial and
regulatory professionals with the ability to understand and debate complex ideas and proposals,
and arrive at a program of politically viable reforms.
17.   Bank performance was also highly satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's request for financial and technical support in meeting the fiscal costs of
pension reform, improving the new multi-pillar system, and advancing complementary capital
market reforms to increase the options for AFAP investment. In addition to specific technical
assistance, that included a review of the Government's estimates of the fiscal costs of transition
and the formula for calculating the projected net-returns of the fund managers, the Bank was
effective in helping the Borrower to articulate a medium-term reform strategy that would ensure
the financial viability of the national pension system.
Program Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
18.   The sustainability of Uruguay's multi-pillar pension system and that of the reforms
supported by the first CSAL are subject to a number of risks, but appear likely. The sustainability
of the new system can only be judged in the long run when workers in the transition generation
begin to draw an adequate retirement income from their AFAP accounts. However, a more
immediate test of the Government's pension reform program and the sustainability of the
progress it has achieved thus far is fast approaching with the onset of primary and general
elections. Opposition parties have already voiced their objection to the 1995 Social Security
Reform Law. However, Uruguayan authorities and the fund managers are quick to point out that
workers have already participated in a defacto referendum on the Government's reform. The
extent of worker affiliation with the AFAP regime in the two years since its inception, is an
endorsement of the new system that opposition parties can ill afford to ignore. The Government
now faces the challenge of holding the course of its reform efforts through the election season
ahead, and avoiding the temptation to back-track on the progress it has achieved. Having said
this, policy makers should keep abreast of developments in the ongoing pensions debate, pay
close attention to regulatory revisions being considered in other countries, and remain open to
modifications in the structure of the AFAP system should further changes be theoretically and
empirically justified.
19.   Overall, the outcome of the operation is considered highly satisfactory. The preliminary
analysis of indicators in this report concludes that, despite current delays in Parliament, the
Borrower has complied fully with the conditions of the first contractual savings adjustment
operation, and that Uruguay's medium term program of pension reform is headed on an
appropriate course.
Lessons Learned
20.   The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan are:
(i) The Value of Demonstrating Strong Technical Capacity. In preparing complex sector
adjustment operations, the Bank should lead with it's comparative advantage - bringing to bear



Viii.
strong technical capacity, honed by practical cross-country experience. The Borrower must be
confident that its dialogue with the Bank will be of added value to its own efforts. The Bank
team was able offer its counterparts credible alternatives to a simple replication of the Chilean
pension model in Uruguay, and to suggest how the model could be improved to best meet the
client's long-term goal of a financially viable, yet equitable, national pension system.
(ii) The Need for Sensitivity to the Political Economy of Reform. The political economy
surrounding the formulation of labor policy has consistently constrained the reform agenda of
even the most resolute of governments. Social security reform is particularly treacherous, and
especially so at the onset of an election year. Political factors and the legislative needs of the
client need to be understood at entry, and should be included in the Bank's dialogue with the
client. In the case of the CSAL in Uruguay, the Bank's willingness to support a more modest
program of imaprovements to the reformed pension system will allow the institution to have a
greater influence on the formulation of future reforms.
(iii) The Importance of Selecting an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and
failure in the achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly
ambitions and politically sensitive policy agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-
term reform strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment
operations (STOs) - a lending vehicle design by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of
lengthy adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. The choice
of the STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with greater agility in
the disbursement of the CSAL, and will enhance the institution's efficiency and leverage in
establishing the conditions of the proposed second loan.



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page i of 21
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. BACKGROUND
1.     Uruguay's economy is undergoing a steady recovery from the effects of the 1994 - 1995
financial crisis in Latin America. Interest rate hikes in the wake of the "Tequila Effect" and the
recessions thal: followed, lowered demand for the country's exports among its partners in
MERCOSUR, depressed economic growth and raised levels of unemployment. The budgetary
demands of an extensive system of social benefits combined with an overall decline in tax
revenue, caused the country's fiscal deficit to swell as high as 3.1 percent of GDP in 1994. The
weight of the fiscal burden provided the new administration that took office in 1995 with
sufficient resolve to undertake a difficult program of austerity measures and economic reforms.
As a result of these measures, the Government has achieved a consolidated public sector deficit of
1.7 percent of GDP in the past two years, and while facing repercussions from the recent Russian
debt default and currency devaluation, expects to improve on this result with a projected deficit of
I percent of GDP in 1998.
2.     Of the programs in Uruguay's historically broad welfare system, its public pension
scheme - the oldest mandatory pension system in the region' - has been the most demanding on
public resources, placing it at the top of the Government's reform agenda. Since the mid 1960's,
the economy has struggled to sustain support ratios as low as four active contributors for a single
pensioner. Rising life expectancy, a low retirement age, overly generous benefits, and widespread
evasion, inflateid the country's implicit pension debt to 300 percent of GDP - one of the highest in
the world, and zan indicator of the urgent need for reform.
3.     After nearly thirteen years of intense public debate on the need for pension reform and
the direction the reform should take, a new Social Security Reform Law was passed in September
1995 that introdluced a multi-pillar framework, by reducing and restructuring the public pay-as-
you-go (PAYG) system, and adding a complementary regime of independently managed,
individually capitalized accounts. The reform's central objective was to establish a more
financially viable system of social security, and in the long run, to reduce the Government's future
pension liability. The implementation of Uruguay's pension reform was supported with an
adjustment loan from the IDB of US$150 million, and the new multi-pillar system came into
effect in April 1 99672
4.     Under the reform, switching rules and transition arrangements were established that will
eventually shift the bulk of pensions liability away from the public pillar onto the second-pillar,
capitalization nrgime of individual accounts managed by independentAdministradoras de Fondos
de Ahorro Previsional (AFAPs). Although beneficial to the overall economy and to the
Government's iFiscal stance in the long term, this transition incurred significant short term costs to
the Banco de Previsi6n Social (BPS) and losses to the PAYG system, as more workers began to
contribute mainly into their individual accounts. The 1995 reform legislation establishes both
income and age parameters to define that segment of the population for whom immediate
participation in the capitalization regime would be mandatory' However, voluntary worker
' A brief history of the social security system in Uruguay, and comment on the new system can be found in,
Queisser, M., 1998, The Second Generation Pension Reforms in Latin America, OECD Development
Centre Studies
2 Due to length constraints, the structure of the new Uruguayan pension system will not be provided in this
report. For details on the reformed system - contribution and replacement rates, averaging and vesting
periods - see President's Report No. P7190-UR
Affiliation with an AFAP was optional for workers over 40 years of age. Workers under forty at the time
of the reform, and new entrants to the labor force earning between five- and fifteen-thousand pesos per
month (in May 1995 pesos), are required to contribute 15% of their income above five thousand pesos, into
an individual AFAP account.



Implementation Completion Report
Page 2 of2l
affiliation to the AFAP system in the two years since the reform has far surpassed Government
expectations, and has greatly increased the short-term cost of the transition. While financial
authorities welcomed the unexpected level of enthusiasm for the second-pillar regime, they were
forced to take urgent measures to finance ballooning short-term transition costs.
5.     In light of the initial high costs, the most important challenge to the Government has been
to continue following its medium-termn strategy for restructuring the national pension system,
while avoiding a reversal of the progress it has made in reducing the consolidated fiscal deficit.
Concerned with the increased costs of reform, the Government approached the Bank in early 1997
to request its assistance. The Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan (CSAL), for
US$100 million, has supported the Government's efforts to strengthen the second-pillar
capitalization regime, while easing the fiscal impact of the transition. The lending instrument
chosen for the CSAL to support the Government's medium-term reform agenda, was a single-
tranche adjustment operation (STO) - the first in a proposed series of such operations in Uruguay.
11. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
6.     The number of workers that voluntarily chose the new capitalization regime in Uruguay
far surpassed official expectations, increasing the cost of pension reform in terms of lost revenue
to the PAYG system administered by BPS, and rapidly accumulating retirement assets under
AFAP management. Figure I shows the evolution of worker affiliation with the AFAP regime in
the last year alone, and the volume of transfers from BPS to the fund managers.
o500.                                         200
aTransfer .0-Affiliates                  180   ;
480                                                   l
160 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4
46012
-10
440                                           100o
E                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
U. 420                                          60
4                                                 060
40
400 
20   0
&0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7.     The original reform  legislation required the fund managers to invest the bulk of
retirement assets in low-yielding government securities. Shallow capital markets, and a lack of
investment opportunities in Uruguay, left the fund managers with few alternatives. In addition to
covering a portion of the additional short-run cost of the reform, the CSAL supported a number of
important modifications to the new system introduced in 1996, and regulatory measures to
increase the set of investment opportunities available to the capitalization regime.



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 3 of 21
8.     Basecl on an medium-term strategy agreed between the Government and the Bank, this
loan was the fiirst in a planned series of operations to support Uruguay's pension reform program,
and complementary capital market reforms. The long-term aim of the program is to maximize the
pension benefits provided by the capitalization regime by; (a) increasing the supply of high return
marketable securities to improve the financial performance of the AFAPs; (b) spurring
competition and creating incentives for the fund managers to reduce their operating costs; and (c)
stimulating de velopment of the private capital markets.
9.     The CSAL's specific objectives were to support measures taken by the Government to:
(i) liberalize the investment regime governing the AFAPs to allow greater investment in private
securities; (ii) increase the availability of private securities to match the growth of pension funds;
and (iii) create incentives to improve cost-consciousness and transparency in disclosure among the
AFAPs. These objectives are seen as essential steps in an incremental reform process that will
lead to greater returns on the investment of retirement savings, cuts in distortionary pay-roll taxes,
reductions in evasion of pension contributions, and accelerated development of the private capital
market.
10.    The loan's objectives were clear and in the context of a medium-term framework, were
appropriately designed for a single tranche operation. The objectives were consistent with the
Government's policy agenda, as articulated in the Letter of Development Policy, dated December
10, 1997. The loan's objectives where in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Uruguay, issued on June 25, 1997, which sets the establishment of a financially sustainable
social security system, the further reduction of distortions to the economy imposed by the PAYG
system, efficiency gains though decreases in hiring costs, and the expansion of the country's
private financial markets, as priorities in the institution's lending program.
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
11.    An in-depth analysis of the design and recent operation of the new pension system in
Uruguay, as well as of the Government's medium-term strategy for pension refonn, are provided
in the President's Report No. P7190-UR. As is the case in single-tranche adjustment lending,
most of the objectives of the CSAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. These
included changes to existing financial regulation to allow greater flexibility of investment, and to
guidelines governing the activities of the AFAPs. Details on preparatory measures taken by the
Bank and Borrower, and the rationale behind the conditions of Board presentation, are also
contained in the President's Report. Evidence of the Borrower's compliance with all of the loan
conditions is provided in Appendix A: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions of this report.
12.    Because the objectives of the CSAL are part of a phased reform process, it is too early to
fully assess the progress achieved toward meeting the Government's long term aims. However, an
analysis of current indicators as to whether these long term goals are likely to be achieved is vital
to the Bank's, continuing dialogue with the Borrower, and as a guide to future Bank support of
deeper reforml of Uruguay's social security system. The key indicators of progress achieved under
the Government's medium-term strategy are presented below. Readers are encouraged to refer to
Annex B: Evolution of Aggregate AFAP Industry Portfolio 1996 - June 1998, of this report for
data on AFAP investment before and after implementation of the CSAL
(i) Increased Flexibility in the Investment Regime
13.   When the new AFAP system came into full operation in 1996, regulation governing the
investment of retirement funds was heavily biased towards government securities. Initially, the
fund managers were obliged to invest at least eighty percent of retirement savings in government
issues. Althiough few financial instruments existed in Uruguay at the time of the reform, these



Implementation Completion Report
Page 4 of 21
tight restrictions on AFAP investment were driven more by the Government's concern for
financing the costs of transition, than by capital market considerations. An important objective of
the CSAL was to liberalize the investment regime governing the AFAPs, to allow greater
investment in private securities
ia. Reductions in Minimum Investment in Government Issues.
14.    With the objective of relaxing a potential constraint on the AFAPs investment activity,
and of stimulating financial sector development, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to take
advantage of a provision in the 1995 Social Security Law which allows for yearly reductions of
five to ten percent in the minimum required AFAP investment in government instruments. An
important condition of the loan was the considerable acceleration of these reductions. In April
1997, one year after the reform's implementation, the minimum requirement had been lowered to
seventy-five percent of assets under management. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Borrower issued an Executive Decree (No. 57/98) on March 4, 1998, providing for further
scheduled reductions that, by April 1999, will have lowered the portion of required AFAP
investment in government instruments to fifty-five percent.
Lb. Changes in Calculation of Required Reserves.
15.    The AFAPs are obliged to provide a minimum return to their affiliates. To cover the
contingent liability this guarantee presents, current regulation requires that the fund managers
hold capital reserves valued at two percent of fund assets. However, the original calculation of
reserves excluded their holdings of government bonds, making investment in low-yielding public
debt attractive. Bank experts pointed out that the Borrower's commitment to gradually lower the
minimum required investment in government securities would have little impact on the asset
allocation decisions of the AFAPs, if not accompanied by changes in how these required reserves
are calculated. As a condition of Board presentation, a draft bill of law introducing changes in
the calculation of the AFAPs' reserves to include government securities, was submitted to
Parliament in December 1997. The administration made modifications to the bill in June 1998.
The bill is currently being deliberated by a senatorial commission, and authorities expect it to be
passed in late 1998 or early 1999.4
(ii) Greater Supply of Financial Instruments Available for AFAP Investment
16.    Financial authorities have taken several measures intended to widen the supply and
availability of investment instruments to keep pace with the rapid accumulation of retirement
funds in the AFAP system. Probably the most important indicator of progress achieved towards
meeting Government's long-term objective of a strong and dynamic capitalization regime, is the
reaction of Uruguay's nascent capital market to changes in financial regulation conducted with the
support of the CSAL.
iLa. Risk Rating Requirement and Rating Industry
17.    During preparation of the loan, the Government approved a decree allowing the AFAP
system's regulator - a branch of the BCU - to require that the fund managers invest only in risk-
rated instruments. The authorities recognized that the development of a domestic risk-rating
industry would be critical to AFAP investment in private securities. Authorization of at least one
risk-rating agency became a condition of Board presentation.
4 As is detailed in Section Ill.(iii) of this report, much of the Government's legislative agenda prepared or
submitted to Parliament as a condition of the CSAL, has remained in the deliberation stage. Although the
Borrower is technically in compliance with the conditions of the loan, progress toward meeting the long-
term objectives faces delay. See Section IV of this ICR for explanation of delays provided by the
authorities.



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 5 of 21
18.     In recent years the market for privately issued debt has grown considerably in Uruguay.
Commercial culture is such that debt- rather than share-financing is more prevalent in the private
sector. In January 1998 the debt market suffered its first major crisis, as one of the country's
largest private industries, Granja Moro defaulted on its obligations. The impact of the default
highlighted the dangers of traditionally opaque commercial and financial transactions, and
catalyzed publiic support for greater transparency and disclosure on the part of private companies.
Fortunately, because of restrictions that they invest only in rated instruments, no AFAP suffered
from the defau It. However, the incident underscored the need for the development of a risk-rating
industry in Uruguay.
19.     Since the loan was disbursed five risk-rating agencies have begun operating in Uruguay.
Of the five, three are international risk-qualifiers. To date, four private issues have been rated; two
by domestic private banks, and two by private agro-industries. It is important to note that within
the various constraints of the current regime, the fund managers have optimized their investment
allocations in the private instruments that are currently available, indicating demand for a greater
supply of private issues.
iib. Investment in Infrastructure Bonds
21.    The Borrower issued an Executive Decree in December 1997, allowing AFAPs to invest
in bonds issued by public enterprises and by private companies holding public concessions, to
finance large infrastructure projects. Although the decree is an important step, financial
authorities have identified a number of clauses that could introduce distortions to the market for
the proposed infrastructure bonds.5 A second Executive Decree is being prepared to refine the
guidelines established in the first, and is expected to be issued in latel998 or early 1999.
22.    The AFAP industry has indicated its demand for the new instruments, and is eager for the
required regulation to be put in place. The AFAPs have tried to accelerate the regulatory process
by organizing events to press the need for the new instruments among financial authorities and
parliamentary figures. Further, the fund managers have identified existing regulatory obstacles to
the timely availability of the new instruments and are taking actions to have these removed6
iic. Increasing the Marketfor Pension Bonds
23.    The special government securities introduced with the 1996 reform specifically for the
AFAPs, were originally issued in URs at a rate of interest set by the BCU, and forbidden to other
investors. Although the average AFAP portfolio allocation in pension bonds was 57.5% in June
1996, the instrument's features and restricted market made the bonds illiquid and unattractive. In
mid 1997, Parliament passed a law allowing the BCU to issue pension bonds in a wider range of
currencies at market rates, and expanding the secondary market for the special bonds. Further,
the law permits all actors in the financial sector to transact these instruments.
24.    Since the law's passage, there have been two issues of the new bonds, and the opening of
the pension bond market has made the instruments more attractive to the AFAPs. A secondary
5 Such as the requirement that the BCU rate instruments for certain infrastructure projects - a function best
left to the new rating agencies.
6 AFAP investment officers report that the current regime's 3% portfolio limit on investment in the issues
of a single emitter, has acted as a disincentive to private companies bidding for public concessions - except
in the case of AFAP Republica the largest AFAP with 55.9% of retirement assets under management in
June 1998, the 3% constraint seriously limits what private companies can expect to receive in future AFAP
investment. This disincentive has slowed the process of private concessions and delayed the supply of the
new instruments. The AFAPs intend to lobby authorities for the constraint to be relaxed.



Implementation Completion Report
Page 6 of 21
market in the pension bonds has begun to develop. Insurance companies in particular have
sought out the instruments which allow them to better match their assets with their long-run
liabilities. Since the law came into effect, the AFAPs have increased their portfolio allocation in
pension bonds only marginally. However, the relative allocation should be considered against the
increased supply of additional public and private instruments.
iid Diversifying the Supply of Public Instruments
25.    When the AFAPs began to operate, the BCU underestimated the relative dominance of
public bonds on Uruguay's capital market. A restrictive investment regime and the shortage of
alternative instruments, caused a bubble in the price of public issues to develop. The BCU has
responded to the investment demands of the AFAPs by modifying its debt issuing policies to
provide a wider variety of public bonds tailored to the needs of the fund managers. These
include: (i) bonds with fixed rates of interest, (ii) issues in dollars at fixed rates with longer
maturities, (iii) bonds in pesos with higher returns, (iv) instruments issued on the international
market offering greater liquidity, and (v) the proposed fixed-income instruments indexed for
inflation. The BCU's efforts to cater to AFAP investment needs will avoid future price bubbles,
and hopefully complement, and not crowd-out the development of private instruments.
iie. AdditionalCapitalMarketRegulation.
26.   Apart from the legislative initiatives specified as conditions of the CSAL, financial
authorities have taken additional measures critical to the development of Uruguay's capital
market.  These include regulation requiring greater disclosure of the activities of private
commercial groups to the capital markets, the enactment of a public register of private companies,
disclosure of the identity and contact information of private executive and financial directors, and
the creation of new sanctions against individuals accused of financial irregularities. These
measures are intended to minimize systemic risks to investment of retirement assets, as well as
promote greater confidence among investors.
(iii) Pending Legislative Agenda:
27.   In the two years since the inception of the AFAP system, a major source of private
investment instruments has remained untapped. Uruguay's Civil Code prevents the securitization
of mortgage loans and other assets. Financial authorities have been fielding two critical
legislative initiatives that would allow the introduction of new asset classes onto the financial
arena.
iiia. Securitization Law
28.   In September 1997, as a condition of Board presentation, the authorities submitted a draft
Securitization Law to Parliament that would permit the packaging of assets such as mortgages
and credit card receivables into tradable securities. The legislation was originally written with
technical assistance under a previous Bank loan, and finalized during the preparation of the
CSAL. The bill is currently being deliberated by a Senatorial Commission. Of the bill's fifty
separate articles, only ten have been discussed and accepted. Financial authorities have held
weekly discussions with the Commission since April 1998 to explain and promote the measure,
but do not expect final passage until late 1998 or early 1999.
iib. TrustLaw
29.   As a condition of the CSAL, the Borrower issued a Ministerial Resolution appointing a
working group within the Finance Ministry to establish the legal framework of a Trust Law. The
law will considerably expand the set of permissible securitization operations proposed in the draft
Securitization Law, and thus further increase the supply of private instruments. The working
group has been active since April 1998, and has finished a draft law to submit to Parliament.



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 7 of 21
30.    The passage of the Trust Law through the legislature and its insertion into the broader
regulatory framework will require controversial modifications of the country's Civil Code. The
prevailing legal framework in Uruguay translates what in many countries would be a purely
financial issue, into a matter of civil law.  Financial authorities prefer to wait until the
Securitization Law is passed to introduce the farther-reaching and more controversial draft Trust
Law to public debate.
(iv) The AFAP Industry: Incentives to Increase Efficiency and Transparency
31.   In the period since its inception, the new capitalization regime in Uruguay exhibited some
of the commlon structural limitations that have constrained the efficiency of fund managers in
similar pension systems in other Latin American countries. A number of measures were taken by
the Government, with support of the CSAL, to try and correct these limitations, to provide the
incentives for efficiency gains and greater transparency, and to increase the potential returns of
the system to the affiliated workers.
iiia. Transactions with Related Companies
32.   In Uruguay transactions between related financial and commercial groups are common as
a strategy fir minimizing risk and uncertainty. However, related-party transacting is often
informal ancl opaque, and can lead to conflicts of interest that could erode the credibility and
popular support for the newly formed pension system. Bank supported pension reform programs
have consistently pursued regulatory measures to minimize and formalize related-party
transacting in the financial sector.
33.    As a condition of Board presentation, the BCU issued regulations requiring the use of
market mechanisms for AFAP investment in securities issued by related companies. The
requirement that all AFAP investment be conducted through formal markets is the first significant
step toward introducing transparency to financial transactions between the fund managers and
their related companies. Strict regulation of related-party transactions should increase confidence
in the safety of retirement investments. AFAP investment managers have commented that
although the new transaction requirements have constrained their operations to an extent, that
formalization has helped to deepen capital markets and has greatly increased the volume of
transactions.
iiib. Reporting Net Returns.
34.    The 1995 reform legislation allows the AFAPs to charge commissions on their affiliates'
current contributions, instead of on accumulated assets.  This extreme front-loading of
commissions introduces powerful incentives for AFAPs to incur high marketing expenses in the
rush for market share in the first few years of operation. High promotional spending by the
AFAPs has resulted in negative net returns in the first few years of the system, and could
contribute to popular opposition to the reform. Until recently the AFAPs were only required to
report gross returns. This less-than-full disclosure of performance kept affiliates from making a
fully informed choice between fund managers, and opened the new system to political attack.
35.     The Bank assisted the Government in setting a formula to calculate returns net of
commissions that reflect the AFAPs' expected performance in the long-run. The AFAPs have
been requirecl to report net returns calculated according to this formula since March 1998.
7 BCU Circulars No. 1559 on September 9, 1997, No. 1585 on February 9, 1998, and No. 1587, on March
6, 1998



Implementation Completion Report
Page 8 of 21
AFAP by Rank     Real Annual Gross Returns, July    AFAP by Rank   Real Net-Projected Retums, Based on
1997- June 1998'                           Last Five Years to June 19982
Comercial                   6.41               Union                        7.91
Union                       5.66               Comercial                    7.80
Santander                   5.48               Integracion                  6.77
Integracion                 5.34               Capital                      6.45
Capital                     4.83               Santander                    6.25
Republica                   4.38               Republica                    5.53
Source: Banco Central del Uruguay 1998
I. in URs
2. until new system has completed five years, base period of calculation is July 1996 when AFAPs began to operate
The new formula improves the information received by workers on the relative performance of
their fund managers, while reducing the likelihood of myopic reaction against the new system on
the part of affiliates and opposition leaders in Parliament.
36.    The AFAPs accept that reporting of net returns will improve transparency and
performance in the long run, however, there has yet been no noticeable response from their
affiliates to the change. It is too early to expect a measurable reaction to the new performance
indicators.8 It should be noted that calculation of net-returns has not yet captured the effects of
recent formalization of transactions and, therefore, will not accurately reflect the relative
investment performance of the fund managers until April 1999.
i-ic. Modifications in the Structure of Fluctuation Funds
37.    Although not included as a condition of the CSAL, in their review of the financial
regulation of the AFAPs to identify areas of possible improvement, authorities decided to modify
the structure of the 'fondos de fluctuaci6n". Borrowed from the Chilean AFPs, the fluctuation
funds were intended to smooth investment returns in very volatile markets - the fund manager
pays into the fund any returns above a pre-set threshold based on the industry's average, and
draws from the fund in times of poor performance to top-up the accounts of its affiliates.
Although intended to avoid wide fluctuations in the investment earnings of account holders, in
Uruguay the mechanism has encouraged herd-behavior in investment allocation, and dampened
competition between the fund managers by disguising their true relative performance. In July
1997, authorities issued regulations modifying the thresholds for deposit into and withdrawal
from the fluctuations funds, widening the band around the industry's average return.9 They hope
that this modification will induce greater competition based on investment performance.
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
38.     With the implementation period of the program limited to actions taken prior to Board
presentation, and the issuance of Executive Decree No. 33940 on reductions in the minimum-
required AFAP investment in government securities as a condition of effectiveness, "majorfactors
affecting the program" should be approached from both a design and an implementation
8 Some of the fund managers have expressed concern that multiple performance indicators might confuse
the affiliat.-s. The AFAPs recommend that the industry and its regulator come to consensus on a simplified
set of indicators.
9 BCU Circular 1558



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 9 of 21
perspective. The success of the operation hinged to a great extent, on the ability of the Uruguayan
authorities to enact significant improvements to the reformed system without putting progress
achieved since 1995 at risk.
39.    The Social Security Reform Law of 1995 was the product of thirteen years of debate and
compromise between the political parties in the current coalition government and its opposition.
Of the contractual savings reforms that have taken place in the region, Uruguay's is by far the
least ambitious.' However, the progress achieved by the Government in reformning it's pension
system must be considered in the context of a political environment in which significant reforms
can be both enacted and repealed by popular referendum. Taking this constitutional reality and a
widespread social aversion to swift shifts in policy into account, the Government's advancements
in improving its national system of pension provision have been considerable.
40.    The conditions negotiated between the Bank and the Borrower for the first CSAL were
shaped within prevailing political constraints. The Bank and the Borrower chose to identify and
pursue what improvements to the new system could be made without attempting significant
changes to the 1995 reform legislation. This constraint limited the program of measures
supported by the CSAL to minor, but important, changes to existing regulation and technically
detailed legislative packages that the opposition was unable to easily exploit to its advantage.
41.    Both financial authorities and the fund managers interviewed in Montevideo stressed the
importance of pursuing a prudent strategy. Uruguay is entering its 1999 general election season
much earlier than in previous years due to the recent introduction of a new system of intra-party
primaries that will commence in the fall of 1998. Much of the pending legislative agenda,
presented to Parliament to meet the conditions of the CSAL is currently delayed due to the shift
of the legislature's focus toward the primaries. While the authorities and the AFAP industry
recognize the long-term benefits of the Bank's more ambitious suggestions for further reforms -
such as changes in the commission structure, liberalization of the investment regime, and further
reductions ol the PAYG pillar - the administration is eager to avoid having its social security
agenda seized upon by any party in the upcoming race.  The Bank team  preferred to
accommodate these concerns, and to postpone major changes in the design of the AFAP system
to a proposedi second contractual savings operation after the 1999 presidential elections.
V. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
42.    The sustainability of Uruguay's multi-pillar pension system  and that of the reforms
supported by the first CSAL are subject to a number of risks, but appear likely. The sustainability
of the new system can only be judged in the long run when workers in the transition generation
begin to draw an adequate retirement income from their AFAP accounts. However, a more
10 Pension reiform specialists from the Bank were invited to review the Government's original reform
proposal in 1995. From a purely technical perspective, the Bank team judged the proposed reforms
inadequate to address the fundamental weaknesses of Uruguay's bankrupt social security system. Due to
political difficulties the Government was unable and unwilling to pursue deeper reforms, and the Bank
chose not to lend financial support the new system established in 1996. It should be noted that the Bank's
analysis of the reform proposal in 1995 failed to predict the popularity of the AFAP regime, and
considerably overestimated the importance that the restructured PAYG pillar would retain after the reform.
When voluntary worker affiliation with the AFAP pillar raised transition costs far above
Government estimates, the authorities in Uruguay decided to approach the Bank for assistance. By
choosing to come to the Government's aid in 1997 the Bank is now in an advantageous position to advise
the Governmeint on what direction it's medium term reform strategy should take.



Implementation Completion Report
Page IO of 21
immediate test of the Government's pension reform program and the sustainability of the
progress it has achieved thus far is fast approaching with the onset of primary and general
elections in months ahead.
43.    Opposition parties have already voiced their objection to the 1995 Social Security
Reform  Law, and have initiated a grass-roots campaign to collect a sufficient number of
signatures to force a referendum on the issue. However, Uruguayan authorities and the fund
managers that were interviewed for this report, are quick to point out that workers have already
participated in a defacto referendum on the Government's reform of the pension system. The
extent of worker affiliation with the AFAP regime in the two years since its inception, is an
endorsement of the new system that opposition parties can ill afford to ignore.
44.    Although not directly related to the conditions of the CSAL, an important concrete
indicator of the long-term sustainability of the new pension system is it's apparent positive impact
on the rate of evasion. Authorities have noticed a rise in the number of contributors to BPS.
Figure 2a below, shows the increase in the number of workers contributing to BPS since the
reform, while Figure 2b shows the quarterly variation in the agency's rate of collection since
1996.
790,000                                 140
780.000.
{770,M,                 l  ll          120
760,000,                      ~~~~~~~~100
i750000,             l  :1   l80
740,000
730. W60
720,0700                       4         40
z
700,000                       ~~~~~~~~~20
890.000                        .  .                       Quarterly change, Q 9  1996  100
_0                                                     _
Authorities attribute the rise in participation in the national pension system to the correction of
perverse incentives that obtained under the old PAYG scheme, the option afforded to lower
income workers to split their pension contributions between BPS and an AFAP account," and the
increased attention pension reform and pension-related issues has received in the national press.
45.     The Government now faces the challenge of holding the course of its reform efforts
through the election season ahead, and avoiding the temptation to back-track on the progress it has
achieved. Having said this, it should be noted that in Uruguay, as it has in the other seven Latin
American countries that have undergone reform, the private pillar of the reformed pension system
and the AFAP industry have been criticized for their high, front-loaded fees, an oligopolist
structure, and collusive practices that have obstructed price competition and dampened incentives
for efficiency gains.'2 Policy makers should keep abreast of developments in the ongoing pensions
" To encourage the participation of lower-income workers, the 1995 reform legislation allows workers
earning less than five-thousand pesos per month to contribute up to half of their mandatory 7.5% BPS
contribution, into an individual AFAP account.
12 For a fuller, cross-country critical analysis of the "Chilean Model", see Shah, H., 1997, Toward Better
Regulation of Private Pension Funds, World Bank PRWP Series No. 1791.



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 11 of 21
debate, pay close attention to regulatory revisions being considered in other countries, and remain
open to modifications in the structure of the AFAP system should further changes be theoretically
and empiricallly justified.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
46.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period of the first Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan, was highly
satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely fashion to the Government's request for financial
and technical support in meeting the fiscal costs of pension reform, improving the new multi-
pillar system, and advancing complementary capital market reforms to increase the options for
AFAP invesltment. In addition to specific technical assistance, that included a review of the
Government's estimates of the fiscal costs of transition and the formula for calculating the
projected nel:-retums of the fund managers, the Bank was effective in helping the Borrower to
articulate a medium-term reform strategy that would ensure the financial viability of the national
pension system.
47.    The approach of the Bank team throughout the first contractual savings operation was
multi-disciplinary. In addition to expertise in pension reform and social protection, the team drew
on professionals from a variety of disciplines, including capital market development. The team
was not only diverse in its expertise, but in its opinions on how best to handle the technical
challenges facing the client. The diversity of skills and perspectives sustained a lively and
productive debate between the Bank and the Borrower, and although many of the team's
suggested solutions could not be included in the conditions of the loan, they served to orient the
operation in an appropriate direction.
48.    The Bank team was congratulated on the quality of its technical assistance to the financial
authorities in Uruguay, and for the pragmatism it demonstrated in formulating a realistic set of
conditions with which the Borrower could comply. To give the Borrower a greater degree of
flexibility in implementing modifications to the new pension system in the months approaching a
general election, the Bank chose to use the single-tranche lending instrument that would engage
the Government in a continuing dialogue on contractual savings reform. Although it its too early
to tell to what degree the long term aims of the reform will be achieved, the choice of the single-
tranche instrament within a framework of an agreed medium-term strategy with the Government,
appears to have been reasonable.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
49.    Borrower performance in the identification, preparation and implementation of the first
contractual savings structural adjustment loan, was highly satisfactory. The contribution made by
the Bank's counterparts to the preparation and execution of the CSAL was considerable, given
the enormous demands on their time. Furthermore, the Bank team benefited from the close
proximity of their counterparts to decision-makers in the administration.
50.    The Bank was able to count on a small, core team  of financial and regulatory
professionals with the ability to understand and debate complex ideas and proposals, and arrive at
a program o:f politically viable reforms. Financial authorities were able to take the Bank's ideas
and analytical tools and measure their impact for themselves. In the overall analysis of the
reformed system conducted to identify conditions for the CSAL, the authorities were able to
detect additional improvements that could be made to the system in the momentum of the



Implementation Completion Report
Page 12 of21
adjustment operation, including modifications to the AFAPs fluctuation funds and the enactment
of new debt-issuing policies at the BCU to accommodate the demands of the fund managers.
51.    Financial authorities were responsible for estimating the fiscal costs of the reform not
only for the Bank's operation, but for the IDB loan that preceded it. The Figure 3 below, shows
the Government's projected pension deficit with and without the reform, clearly demonstrating
the long-run savings that can be expected after the transition.
4.5
4
3.5.
3                                                           E
EL
O2.5.
0 2 
0.5
0
1997 1998 1999 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035
E Wthout Reform [3 Wth Reform
Although the Uruguayan authorities initially underestimated the number of workers that would
chose to participate in the AFAP system, and the lost contributions to BPS, they later adjusted the
parameters of their model to reflect the higher levels of affiliation with the second pillar.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
52.    Based on interviews with the Borrower and the Bank, and as detailed in the paragraphs
above, the overall outcome of the operation is considered highly satisfactory. The preliminary
analysis of indicators in Section III of this report concludes that, despite current delays in
Parliament, the Borrower has complied fully with the conditions of the first contractual savings
adjustment operation, and that Uruguay's medium term program of pension reform is headed on
an appropriate course.
IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS
53.   Identification and preparation efforts have begun for a proposed second contractual
savings loan (CSAL II), which is expected to be presented to the Bank's Board in the third
quarter of fiscal year 1999. The Government estimates that its efforts thus far will begin
generating savings to the public PAYG system in about four years. The first CSAL helped
finance part of the reforn's transition costs in 1998, while the proposed second operation will
finance a portion of these costs for 1999/2000. A project preparation facility of US$2 million has
been approved to finance sector studies and technical assistance to lay the ground-work for the



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 13 of 21
second operation. The second loan would support further improvements of Uruguay's multi-
pillar pension system, the creation of additional incentives for long-term costs minimizing among
the AFAPs, and expanded reform of the country's financial sector and capital market regulation.
54.    During preparation of the first CSAL, Bank staff evaluated the Government's projections
of the transition costs, and assisted authorities in recalibrating their model.  The Bank's
simulation model could not be applied during the first CSAL due to the limited data available on
BPS contributors. The implementation team decided that the Government's projections of the
fiscal costs znd the yearly transfers from BPS to the capitalization pillar were sufficient to
proceed with the first loan. In the course of preparing a proposed follow-up operation, the Bank
would like to improve its estimate of the projected costs of the reforrn, using thePension Reform
Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST).
55.    While the authorities would welcome the use of PROST and the valuable data collection
exercise that the model would demand, they do not expect the Bank's simulation to significantly
improve the accuracy of their own projections, and would attribute any divergence of results to
minor differences in assumptions. The Bank's counterparts have expressed a strong preference
for a more nimble model that would help them to better estimate short term costs - with a
maximum one- or two-year time horizon - and that would perform better with lower inflation
expectations. The Borrower believes that the establishment of a special unit within BPS
dedicated to this sort of short-term modeling would be a superior use of resources.
X. LESSONS LEARNED
56.    The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan are:
(i) The Value of Demonstrating Strong Technical Capacity. In preparing complex sector
adjustment operations, the Bank should lead with it's comparative advantage - bringing to bear
strong technical capacity, honed by practical cross-country experience. The Borrower must be
confident that its dialogue with the Bank will be of added value to its own efforts. The Bank
team was able offer its counterparts credible alternatives to a simple replication of the Chilean
pension model in Uruguay, and to suggest how the model could be improved to best meet the
client's long-term goal of a financially viable, yet equitable, national pension system.
(ii) The Need for Sensitivity to the Political Economy of Reform. The political economy
surrounding the formulation of labor policy has consistently constrained the reform agenda of
even the most resolute of governments. Social security reform is particularly treacherous, and
especially sc, at the onset of an election year. Political factors and the legislative needs of the
client need to be understood at entry, and should be included in the Bank's dialogue with the
client. In the case of the CSAL in Uruguay, the Bank's willingness to support a more modest
program of improvements to the reformed pension system will allow the institution to have a
greater influence on the formulation of future reforms.
(iii) The Importance of Selecting an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and
failure in the achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly
ambitions and politically sensitive policy agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-
term reform strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment
operations (STOs) - a lending vehicle design by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of
lengthy adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. The choice
of the STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with greater agility in
the disbursement of the CSAL, and will enhance the institution's efficiency and leverage in
establishing the conditions of the proposed second loan.






Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 15 of 21
PART TWO: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Project Financing
Table 6:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Missions



Implementation Completion Report
Page 16 of21
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial        Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                     0l E                             O                 O
Sector Policies                    Q               0                E                 El
Financial Objectives               0      El                        E Ol
Institutional Development          0      El                        E                 E]
Physical Objectives                                03
Poverty Reduction                                                  I]                 0
Gender Issues                                                      EO
Other Social Objectives            ]                               j]
Environmental Objectives          El              El                E -3
Public Sector Management          E                                                   El
Private Sector Development         0              El                                  El
Other (specify)                   E               E                 E                 E
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv             Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
0 ; 0 , 1-   f 0 Cd t   0fEl                        El



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 17 of 21
Hi2h'                       -"
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (1$)             .        (1)
Identification                                                                      [
Preparation Assistance                                    i:                         El
Appraisal                         0                        E                         El
Supervision                       0                        0                         El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfactory    Satisfactorv     Deficient
(v)            (V/)            (1)
Preparation                                 0               a              Cl
Implementation                              0               E              E
Covenant Compliance                                        i:              El
Operation (if applicable)                   E               E              E
Highlv                                               Y
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactor
--                  'I' xii 1'i2:  Ri;i    I   \NK   [oI 1:)1
Loan/Amount US$ Millions                 Purpose                     Year of          Status
approval
Preceding operations
UY-PA-8169 for US$ I       Public Enterprise Reform               1992            Closed
UY-PA-8161 for US$15.6     Health Sector Development              1995            Disbursing
Following operations
UY-PE-8186 for US$13.02    Health Sector Development              1999            Undisbursed
Proposed US$100            Second Contractual Savings Structural  1999            Proposed
Adjustment



Implementation Completion Report
Page 18 of21
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned                     Date Actual
Identification                    January - May 1997               May 30, 1997
Preparation                       June 1997                        June 16 - 20, 1997
Appraisal                         September 1997                   September 15 - 19, 1997
Negotiations                      October 1997                     October 29 - 31, 1997
Letter of Development Policy      December 1997                    December 11, 1997
Board Presentation                February 1998                    February 3, 1998
| Signing                         February 1998                    February 26, 1998
Effectiveness                     February 1998                    March 17, 1998
Single Tranche Release            February 1998                    March 17, 1998
Loan Closing                      June 1998                        June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY'98
Appraisal Estimate                                       100
Actual                                                   100
Actual as % of Estimate                                  100
Date of Final Disbursement                              March 17, 1998



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 19 of 21
ActuaULatest Estimate(US$M)
Local                         Foreign                      Total
Source                                Costs                           Costs
IBRD/IDA                                                                   100                        100
Cofinancing linstitution                    __                              ---                        ---
Other External Sources                     _                               __                          ---
Domestic Contribution                      _ _                                                         ---
TOTAL                                     ---                             100                        100
T uu.i- 6: Su r.%rt s oi Lr(.;. Cov'E',kN rs
Agreement Covenant Present                               Description of                              Comments
type    status                              covenant
2.02(b)     5         C        The Borrower to open and maintain in the Central Bank a deposit account in  In Compliance
dollars. All withdrawals from Loan Account to be deposited in such Deposit
Account.
2.02(c)     5          C       The Borrower undertakes that proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to  In Compliance
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03        5         C        The Closing Date of the Loan shall be June 30, 1998.               In Compliance
2.04        5          C       The Borrower h shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of  Single Tranche -
three-fourths of one percent per annum on the principal amount of the Loan   filly disbursed at
not withdrawn from time to time                                   effectiveness
2.05.(a)    5          C       The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the loan  In Compliance
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
3.01(b)     5          C       The Borrower to fumish to the Bank for review a report on the progress in   In Compliance
carrying out the Program in such detail as the Bank requests.
3.02(a)(b)(c) I        C       Upon Bank request, the Borrower shall have the Deposit Account audited and In Compliance
fumish to the Bank audit report not later than four months after the Bank
request and all other information requested
5.01(a)     10        C        The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the  In Compliance
objectives of the Program
5.01(aXb)   10         C       The Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section  In Compliance
3.01 (a), with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program
5.01 (a)(b)(c) 10     C        The Borrower has issued an Executive Decree acceptable to the Bank,  In Compliance
providing for scheduled reductions in the minimum required investment of
the AFAPs' pension funds in securities of the Borrower so as to reach 55% on
April 1, 1999



Implementation Completion Report
Page 20 of 21
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                     8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               It.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                        allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing     12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                   regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                             13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
Stage of                                             Planned                         Actual
Project Cycle                                 _                E_._I
Weeks        US$ (OOOs)        Weeks        US$ (OOOs)
Preparation to Appraisal                                  22            114.9           28.1             137
Negotiations through Board Approval                       1.8            6.4             0.9             3.4
Supervision                                              10.2           43.3             0.6             3.0
Completion                                               6.8             10.0            6.2             6.2
TOTAL                                                  40.8            174.6           35.8           149.6



Uruguay: Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan
Page 21 of2l
T.wlL 8: B.vNK RESO( K'ES: Ml1SlONS
Performance Rating
Number   Days    Specialized   Implemen    Develop-
Stage of              Month/             of        in      Staff Skills   -tation      ment       Types of
Project Cycle             Year           Persons    Field    Represented    Status     Objectives   Problem
s
Through Appraisal      Preliminary            2          10      a.b,              _            _
January 15-25, 1997
Identification        2          8       ac,
April 7-15.1997
Preparation           3          4       ab.c.
June 16-20, 1997
Appraisal througln      Appraisal             2         4        ac.               _            _           _
Board Approval         September 15 - 19,
1997
Supervision
Completion             ICR                    2         5        a,d,              -            -           _
August 31 -
i ___________________   September 5, 1998
Key: Snecialized Staff Skills
a. Task Manger - Sr. Operations Officer
b. Pensions Specialist- Social Protection
c. Pensions Specialist - Capital Market Development
d. Economist - Consultant



Uruguay - Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan (CSAL) - Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
A. Macroeconomic Stability
Maintain sound           | A precautionary stand-by through March 1999 was approved  | Maintenance of sound macroeconomic   | GDP growth in 1997: 5. 1%,
macroeconomic stability to | by the IMF in May 1997                                framework consistent with policy      I Vp-A g-          199.-  Q- I AO/
facilitate further pension                                                         objectives described in Letter of     A. - - ....... I-v    .
reforms                                                                            Development Policy                     Consumer price inflation in 1997: 19. 1O%
Expected inflation 1998: 10,4%
B. Investment RegimeforAFAPs
Reduce concentration of   >   Minimum investment in government securities was      >   Executive decree, acceptable to the    /   Issuance of Executive Decree No
AFAP investments in           lowered from 80% to 75% in April 1997                    Bank, announcing the scheduled          57/98 on May 4, 1998
govemment securities                                                                   reductions in minimum required
>   Borrower committed to lower AFAP minimum required        investment by AFAPs in
investment in government securities to 55% by April     government issues
1999
>' Draft bill of law modifying
>   Borrower committed to modify the calculation of Special  calculation of the Special Reserves    v   Bill submitted in December 1997 -
Reserves held by AFAPs, to include holdings of           submitted to Congress                  expected to be passed October 1998
government securities
>   Issuance of regulations acceptable to   v   BCU Regulation
>   Borrower committed to allow AFAP investment in bonds    the Bank, allowing investment in
issued to finance large infrastructure projects          bonds financing infrastructure
projects
C. Capital Market Laws and Regulations
Increase AFAP investment   >   Investment Funds Law passed in September 1997       >   Authorization of at least one risk  V   Five risk rating agencies have opened
opportunities in private                                                               rating agency to operate in Uruguay     offices in Uruguay - three of these are
securities                >   Risk Rating Decree issued in May 1997                                                            international agencies
>   Issuance of Ministerial Resolution
>   Draft Securitization Law submitted to Parliament in      appointing a working group to carry   V   Working group active since April
September 1997                                           out analysis of legal framework, and   1998, and draft Trust Law ready -
thereafter to draft a Trust Law        authorities will submit when
>   Commitment to initiate preparation of draft Trust Law                                           Securitization Law is passed
AppendixA
Page I of 2



Uruguay - Contractual Savings StructuralAdjustment Loan (CSAL) - Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
D. Public Debt Regime
Allow the development of   >   Draft law submitted to Parliament April 1997, allowing                                    I     Law approved - all enterprises
a secondary market in debt    Government to issue pension bonds in different                                                   permitted to purchase pension bonds.
instruments linked to         currencies and allowing their purchase by all types of                                           Significant secondary market has
pension reform                enterprises                                                                                      developed.
E. Regulation ofAFAPs
Create incentives for     >   In July 1997, AFAPs began to report gross returns in  >   Issuance of decree, acceptable to the   .   BCU Communication No. 98/44 issued
AFAPs to increase             wage adjusted units                                       Bank, requiring AFAPs to report net    on April 6, 1998
efficiency and transparency                                                            returns to affiliates from March
>   Borrower committed to require AFAPs to report net        1998 - decree providing
returns to affiliates, according to a formula agreed with  methodology for calculation of net
the Bank                                                 returns
/ BCU Circulars No. 1559 on September
>   Borrower committed to regulate AFAP investment in    >   Issuance of regulations acceptable to  9, 1997, No. 1585 on February 9,
related companies                                       the Bank, establishing the use of       1998, and No. 1 587,on March 6, 1998
market mechanisms for AFAP
investment in related companies
ADDpendix A
Page 2 of 2



Z,.Iuti.s.rAUr,pt.AFAPl.d.ftyP.nf.IK J- Md. My IM
1"7                                                                                                                 19"
.0  A,-                                                                                  ftk                         Apo                                                      A  ft                    -1 -1                                                                             A,o
o,17%       G.          L           (1.15%        0.43%        os!%         om        ----2 1 1%      OM%          omw%          ..O^         (1,01%         oAm             2-m         o.4j%         L*1           1,35%        L.,           L%%          1.5          2.241         0,24%        a. 10%        o.06%
o.31%        o.m          (11021%      o.4o%         o.3ft        o.3m         (1.06%        ool%         0,01%        o.W%          ow%            ooo%           0.161        O."%          1.31%    3- 32%  -           ON,
US D.U-                                                           0.03%        1,23%        0.12%         0.03%        0.19%        0.1                                                                                             Om%          O.M           0.0         0.03%         0.1
;-          t b-                                      85,65%    U14%    MW55%    ll.                      81.41%    21.9m                         nOI%    93.7M             $10,1%    198%    M.O^                   M              IL42%    8173%
B-  P--..d. (UR.                                                                                                                                                                                                        --!%                                     121.   W,M                .32%           92,   775-. %-%    n. I              75 5        W. 16,    W.-
57.0%    11.21%    9.113%              C45%    24.M              20.         I&M           MM           12.12.    10.3             9.3^         3.25%          6.111%         6 31%         5,74%        5 23%        4 M  - - - 4A   -4 33-% --4 W --_ 3.71%                           3 5M          3.3^         1-2-
B-         M  T-    (USS)                              2ttm        53.90%       1303M        390im         M.41%        14.51%        52.21%  ___13 M           65.23%       115M          67 26%       62,35%         62 241        M-            37,611       33.2r        ".M    -'--279           21'"%        2S.-         2-52im        MIS%          III,-       -17,51%
B-  OW-1. (US$)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.311   19,74,    2S.-                  "N%    29rl   33.13%    %.I    35                               3.951   424 1
3,431        7.1          5.54%        5.M
E..b.-    (M )                                                                                                                                                                                           1M             6.21%          1.4          1.11M        I lr         1 2-        192%          1.          216%          1.32%        2O2%          2.%.         122%
L.Ow de T--.b (PooOo)                                              10.71%       25,M         22.46%        MM%           6.13%        9.           3.03%        2.6m          2.23%        S.O         7.421                        1133%         16.42%        9.92%        H.M          13.21%         5rl           %-%                       ..61%         2,14%         1.63%
L.U. d. T--b (US$))                                        -                                  Ua          12.11        mosi.          jmO3%        1                          5 70%        zl          2.N%           1.11%          3-           0.28%          ..I%         0 9-         0,33%  -4.74-1                           4.          1 to,         L           2AM
Bowo OWM. RBW-d. (A)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --                                                                            4.           6,2
Smrid.   fB-             Hipos-A. dd Urw y              9.61%        3.01%        4-N%_  _3        "%       6IM           4.          4.011%        2.4         3.10%        2.55%         2.M          135'           1.25%          1.05%        0,95%         OPIM         0092%         06?!%  -- O"%                  %                      O'55%        ..52%         0,45%
Cal&"J. & Dq"t, (UAR)                                   9.61%   5.01%    4.40%    2.13%    O.W%                          O.W%         Ow% _ 0.1^                 0.16%    0101,             0 W,         O.-            OMM%           ..-           O.W%         O.W,    -0.00%,    O.-                   a  --- -O  -- 0                             - O.Om               0.
B-        wyft-i. y Cbf. IPC                                                                   1.53%        6.W%         412%         3.66%         2.M          2.54%         2,21%        LM            1.12%         1.01%          O            O'"%                       O.72%            %        0.51%         0.54%,        O.W6    -- OAPI.           .61$%        031%
oo-    " "Mobloo (UR.)                                                                                      0.33%        O.M .        O.M .         0.19%        ..3         0.3^1         O. '        ..M            0.24%          0.13          OAM          0.10%         OAO%         -            0                                        Omo          ..M           0106%
Thm  D,"Wb                                              45         iL110%       14.251       15.li-%       11 0%        12.45%       16.00%        15.41%       14,13,       15.38",       13."%        1183%          14A           16.06%       15.5         III.W4        ITIM         19,32%       1913%         1. 3^         15 251.      18 76%        12 73%       12"%
1. P'ooOo                                               4.M          5.55%       12,01%       U.".          10.21%       10.         14.M          14.42%       1335%        14.6r        13.121.      1121%          14.2-          15.60%       15.10%        18.11%        16.7rl       19.71        19 m.         17 N         11".1        16.11%        1 I.-        I 1.
II. us Du-                                                            6wN%         2a"          2.1           1.62%                     1+13%         0.93%        049%         0.  -                      O.%%                          0+43%        .40- 042-1-    O.                      O..I%    0.36% -    13                 -1-61% ----2.65%            1.33%         1 10%
on%            l."6%          1.20%        J.        - --i.34%,      I.M                                                                Or2l%         216%          2.53
4.74%1
(Ponfoli.)                                   IM.M%   lWr               j.FN%    1W.-    100.00%                             I            I..-    IN.W%                                                                                                                                            mmoz
l..Wl.  IN.W%   IOO.W`l  Im",   IN                                  I Ww -1
lj..-.121r                  I.IMMOOO
S--: 8- C-l dd Ug-y 1998
Appendix B
Page I of]



Appendix C
Page I of 3
IRUGUAY - CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ICR MISSION
(August 31 - September 4, 1998)
AIDE MEMOIRE
This note summarizes the main findings of the World Bank mission on contractual savings
development that visited Montevideo during August 31 - September 4, 1998. The mission
consisted of Ms. Mariluz Cortes, Sr. Operations Officer, and Mr. Truman Packard, Economist
(Consultant). The mission would like to thank the Government of Uruguay for the collaboration
and support provided.
The objectives of the mission were to:
> assess progress to date in the implementation of reforms supported by the first Contractual
Savings Adjustment Loan (CSAL);
> gather information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
CSAL;
The mission's agenda was set with the help of the Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas.
Interviews were conducted with Authorities at the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank, as
well as with representatives from AFAP Republica and AFAP Comercial.
Overall Impressions
Based on the comments and observations the mission received during its interviews with
various public and private entities, the overall progress achieved by the Government in meeting
the long-term objectives of its pension reform program, has been significant. The Borrower has
complied fully with all of the conditions of the loan. The mission was able to gather information
on the impact of reforms supported by the loan, the progression in Parliament of several
legislative inil:iatives linked to the loan's conditions, and the reaction of market participants - the
Administradoras de Fondos de Ahorro Previsional (AFAPs) - to changes in the regulatory
regime since the loan was approved.
(i) Contractual Savings Legislative Agenda. Further changes in the regulatory framework to
encourage a gradual reduction of AFAP investment in government securities, are making slow
but steady progress through Parliament. Since the issuance of Executive Decree No. 33940
announcing accelerated scheduled reductions in the minimum required investment by AFAPs in
government bonds, the fund managers have reduced their total holdings of public debt. To
eliminate finaLncial incentives for AFAPs to overly invest in government bonds, Authorities
submitted to a Senatorial Committee in December 1997 legislation modifying the calculation of
required Speciial Reserves to include previously exempted public issues. No action was taken on
this legislative package for several months. Authorities took advantage of delays in the
deliberation process to expand the scope of the package to include further measures to increase
the efficiency of the fund managers.
Two important draft bills of law that should significantly increase the supply of private
securities in Uruguay's capital markets are pending further action. A draft Securitization Law
was submitted to the Senatorial Committee in August 1997 as a condition of CSAL, but was not
seriously discussed until April 1998. Since April, the team at the Finance Ministry that prepared
the draft law have been called to brief the committee on a weekly basis. Of the draft law's 50
separate articles, 10 have received the Committee's approval. A draft Trust Law is almost ready,
but will require extensive reformn of the country's Civil Code for passage. The Authorities prefer



Appendix C
Page 2 of 3
to wait until the draft Securitization Law is passed before submitting the draft Trust Law to
Parliament for debate.
The mission was told that due to the establishment of a new electoral process of intra-party
primaries to select presidential candidates, political attention is already tightly focussed on the
presidential race of 1999. Primaries are to be held in mid-October 1998. The Authorities are
pressing their pending legislative agenda as much as possible, however, they were frank in the
admission that if the Senatorial Committee does not finish its deliberations by the start of the
primaries, action on the modifications in the calculation of Special Reserves and the draft
Securitization Law is not likely to be taken before the election of the next administration. The
mission appreciates the delicate timing of the Government's legislative agenda, and expressed its
approval of the Authorities' goal to have the Special Reserves legislation and the draft
Securitization Law passed before October 1998.
(ii) Development of Private Instruments.  The mission has found that since the loan's
disbursement, opportunities for AFAP investment in private securities have increased at the
margin. The Authorities reported that the development of the market for private debt has suffered
from the impact of a default in January 1998 of one of Uruguay's largest private companies,
Granja Moro. Fortunately no AFAP was affected by the default, and the incident served to
underscore the need for independent risk-rating agencies and greater transparency in commercial
dealings. Five risk-rating agencies have begun to operate in Uruguay, and to date, have rated four
private issues; two by domestic private banks, and two by private agro-industries. The mission
has observed that within the various constraints of the current investment regime, the fund
managers it interviewed have optimized their investment allocation in the private instruments that
are currently available, indicating pent-up demand for a greater supply of private issues.
The mission inquired into the demand for share-financing among companies in the private
sector and was informed that private commercial culture in Uruguay is more disposed to debt-
than to equity-financing. Included in the preparation of the proposed second Contractual Savings
operation will be a comprehensive study of the country's financial sector that Authorities hope
will identify policy initiatives that would spur the supply of private share offerings in the long
run.
In December 1997, Authorities issued a decree allowing AFAP investment in bonds issued
by private companies with public concessions to finance large infrastructure projects. Further
regulation is being prepared that will make the issuing and rating process for these infrastructure
bonds more flexible. Although these instruments are not yet available, both the Authorities and
the AFAPs are confident that they will go far in alleviating the serious shortage of private
securities. The AFAPs are eager for the instruments to become available and to this end, have
organized information events to press the urgency among financial Authorities, congressional and
business leaders. The infrastructure bonds will also be qualified by the independent risk-rating
agencies.
(iii) Formalization of AFAP Transactions & Reporting of Net Returns. Significant advances
have been made in the formalization of AFAP transactions with related companies. The
Authorities are pleased with the development of market systems to ensure transparency in trading
and pricing of instruments. AFAP investment officers report that although the adjustment to the
new requirements has been difficult, these have lead to significant increases in the volume of
trade and deepened the Uruguayan capital market. One of the AFAPs interviewed by the mission
reported that formalization of operations, as well as the limits on investment in own-group issues
have acted as real constraints on their investment decisions.
AFAPs have been required to report net-projected retums to their affiliates since the
issuance of BCU Circular No. 1596 on April 6, 1998. The new AFAP performance rankings
according to net-projected retums were published in the July 1998 AFAP bulletin. The change in



Appendix C
Page 3 of 3
performance ranking from gross to net-projected returns is considerable. The fund managers
interviewed mentioned that, although they accept that reporting of net returns will improve
transparency and performance in the long run, there has yet been no response from their affiliates
to the change. AFAP Comercial expressed the concern that multiple performance indicators are
likely to confiuse the affiliates, and made the recommendation that the industry and its regulator
come to consensus on a simplified set of indicators.
(iv) Modification of Public Debt Issues to Meet AFAP Needs. AFAP Authorities at the BCU
report important changes in the Government's debt-issuing policies in response to the needs of
the AFAPs and other financial market participants. Passage of legislation in 1997 allowed the
Government to issue Pension Bonds in different currencies, and has permitted their purchase by
enterprises other than the fund managers. This has made the special instruments more attractive
to the AFAPs and led to the development of a secondary market. Further important changes in
the issuing of government bonds include: (i) bonds with fixed rates of interest, (ii) issues in
dollars with longer maturities, (iii) bonds in pesos with higher returns, (iv) instruments issued on
the international market with greater liquidity, and (v) the design of fixed-income instruments
indexed for inflation. The BCUs efforts to cater to AFAP investment needs will avoid future
price bubbles like that observed at the start of AFAP investment when only a very limited set of
public issues was available.
CSAL ICR Preparation
The mission was successful in obtaining the necessary inputs to complete the ICR for the CSAL.
The Authorities will prepare their own assessment of the design, preparation and implementation
of CSAL (no more than 10 pages), along the guidelines discussed during the mission with Econ.
Gustavo Michellin. Upon returning to Washington, the Bank will complete the first draft of the
ICR, which is expected to be shared with the Authorities by end-October 1998.



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page I of 6
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
Loan No. 4280-UR'
I. Background
1. The Government shares the brief description given in the ICR, however, the following points
do deserve to be mentioned. Uruguay's economy suffered only slightly from the effects of the
Tequila Crisis. The country's GDP fell by only 1.8% in 1995, and quickly recovered in the years
that followed to annual rates greater than 5%. Within this framework, the fiscal policies adopted
by the Government have financial balance as their objective. Based on the latest available figures
this objective is being meet, with the public sector deficit at 2.8% of GDP in 1994, and although
this could have risen in the first few months of 1995, a rise was prevented by fiscal adjustment in
April of that year.
2. From this stance, and in a manner consistent with implementation of the reform of social
security, the Government sought to balance the financial situation of the public sector, lowering
its deficit to barely 1.6% of GDP in the two years that followed. In the twelve months to June
1998 the consolidated public sector deficit is approximately 0.7% of GDP.
3. It should be noted that the bulk of the deficit is made up of government transfers to the
Administradoras de Fondos de Ahorro Previsional (AFAP) and the costs associated with State
Reform. Future government transfers to the AFAPs are expected to continue at 1% of GDP per
year. If the transfers to the AFAPs arising from the reform are considered, public accounts are
actually in surplus. Therefore, a portion of the costs of the reform are being paid out of public-
sector savings.
1I. Program Objectives
4. In this section the preliminary assertion made in the ICR of the successful acceptance of the
combined pension system is critical, since this factor determined the situation that the
Government hiad to manage. In effect, the number of workers that voluntarily opted to enter the
new multi-pillar system, was far greater than official expectations - 80% of eligible participants.
As is asserted in the ICR, the high rate of participation acted as an indirect plebiscite in support of
the reform.
5. With respect to the new pension funds, the Government agrees with the report's analysis of
the limitations imposed on the new system by legislation in the first few years of the reformed
system. However, the Government wishes to express its disagreement with a point made in the
ICR. In paragraph 7 the report says that the fund managers must invest the greater part of assets
in low-yielding government bonds. It should be made clear that the instruments issued by the
Government are instruments issued at public auction, listed on the market, and acquired
voluntarily by various agents both in the primary and secondary markets. These markets are open
and competitive, and even interact with international markets in the case of government issues
such as the Eurobono and the Bonos Globales. This being the case, it is incorrect for these
instruments to be considered "low-yielding", since their yield is that to be expected of
instruments issued by a Latin American country with a BBB rating.
6. As an example, in the case of the peso-denominated government bonds issued specifically for
the AFAPs (indexed to the salary index), whose return and liquidity did not satisfy the fund
'Translated from Spanish by Truman G. Packard, LCSFP, November 24, 1998 - original comments follow.



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page 2 of 6
managers, there was little demand. The AFAPs can chose among the various governments
instruments issued on the market.
7. The problem arising from the minimum required investment in government issues, is a lack
of dynamism in the private capital market, and a lack of diversification and less room for
variable-rate instruments in the portfolios of the fund managers. These problems are the
motivation of the reform measures supported by the loan, and not the possible low-yields of any
single asset.
III. Achievement of Program Objectives
8. As is stated in the ICR, the majority of the CSAL's objectives were achieved before
disbursement of the loan's single tranche. In an analysis of the main components of the matrix of
policy conditions, the Government's concern with the continuous improvement of the social
security regime and contractual savings system is apparent.
9. With respect to the increasing flexibility in the investment regime, the Government agrees
with the importance of lowering the minimum level of required investment in government issues,
and with the changes in the calculation of required reserves. These objectives have been
achieved.
10. The second major objective was to improve the supply of financial instruments available for
AFAP investment. In paragraph 17 of the ICR, it is claimed that the Central Bank's regulations
determine minimum levels of risk, when all that is in fact required by the Central Bank is that the
risk of every instrument be rated. The Central Bank does not establish minimum levels of risk2
11. The impact of the Granja Moro incident on the securities market is important, principally
because it was an unusual event in a market that was only recently formed, and because of the
weight of the company in relation to total private debt issued, and the total private debt negotiated
in the year. This is not to say that the company is one of the largest in the economy, nor that the
productive sector has been adversely impacted by its default.
12. With respect to the decree on infrastructure bonds that was expected to be issued in October
1998, technical improvements have delayed the issue of these instruments. It is expected that the
issue will take place latter this quarter.
13. Regarding the pending legislative agenda, the ICR mentions that the Securitization Law
originally presented to Parliament by the Executive branch has been modified in response to the
concerns of the legislators in order to improve both its format and chances of passage. Although
these modifications accelerate the process of legislative approval, it should be noted that
parliamentary recess fast approaches. The Securitization Law will most likely be considered by
Parliament after the recess. In paragraph 27 the ICR claims that the Civil Code limits
securitization, when to be exact, it mainly affects the proposed Trust Law.
14. The improvement of incentives for efficiency gains in the AFAP industry, is one of the
principal concerns of the Government and of the division supervising the AFAPs within the BCU.
Paragraph 34 the ICR discusses one of the issues that generated productive debate between the
World Bank and representatives of the Government.
2 Since corrected.



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page 3 of 6
15. At the core of the debate is what concept of "net returns" is relevant to a pensions savings
account. It would be incorrect to consider net returns negative in the first few years of
contribution to an account whose manager charges commissions up-front (front-loading
commission) for the management of that account over the course of the contributor's active
career. It should be noted that mandatory and not voluntary savings are at issue. These savings
cannot be witlidrawn until the moment of retirement. Net returns in the short run are not relevant.
16. Thus an agreement was reached that the net returns that would be published by the BCU
would reflect a longer, uniform time-period of 35 years - the minimum vesting period required by
the law for a worker to qualify to receive retirement benefits.
17. Additionally, paragraph 34 attributes low returns in the first years of the system's operation to
high costs of promotion. It is difficult to assess whether promotion costs have been high or low,
since these are the start-up costs of a new regime with a large initial sales force to achieve the
highest level of worker affiliation possible. In this light, the Government considers the AFAPs to
have been very cost-efficient in this start-up period, as demonstrated by the rapid affiliation of
80% of the eligible workers (in other countries similar rates of affiliation have taken many years
to achieve). Further, total commissions have fallen with time, transferring the savings from
economies of scale to the consumer.
IV.   Major Factors Affecting the Program
18. A correction: the number of the decree that reduces the minimum required investment by the
AFAPs in government bonds, is 57/98, and not 33940.3
19. The changes to the system supported by the loan have not been minor. The Government
considers these changes to have been significant within the general framework of the reform -
they do not change the course of the reform, but rather significantly improve the operation of the
new system. The political constraints on reform that are well described in the ICR determined
that the changres that were supported by the loan where strictly technical in nature, but did not
alter the fundamental philosophy of the reform.
3 Since corrected.



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page 4 of 6
Comentarios al Implementation Completion Report (ICR) del
prestamo No. 4280-JR
I - Background
1. Se comparte la breve descripci6n realizada en el reporte, mereciendo solamente las siguientes
precisiones. La economia uruguaya sufri6 en forrna muy leve la crisis originada en el "Efecto
Tequila". El PBI disminuye en 1995 solamente -1.8%, recuperandose en los afios siguientes a
tasas superiores al 5% anual. En este marco, la politica fiscal adoptada busca conseguir resultados
financieros equilibrados y en los hechos, basindonos en las ultimas cifras disponibles, se puede
afirmar que dicho objetivo se estA logrando ya que el deficit del sector publico que se ubic6 en
2.8% del PBI en 1994, y que tenia un potencial de crecimiento muy importante en los primeros
meses de 1995, fue controlado en base a un ajuste fiscal en abril de 1995.
2. A partir de esta situaci6n y en forma consistente con la implementaci6n de la reforma de la
seguridad socia!, se procura equilibrar la situaci6n financiera del sector puiblico, logrAndose
resultados deficitarios de 1.6% y 1,4% del PBI respectivamente en los dos anos siguientes, en
tanto en los doce meses culminados en junio de 1998 el deficit fiscal consolidado del sector
piiblico se ubica en 0.7% del PBI.
3. Hay que notar que gran parte del deficit se trata de los egresos por traspasos a las
Administradoras de Fondos de Ahorro Previsional (AFAP) y la Reforma del Estado.
Simplemente considerando el primer caso (contabilizaci6n de egresos futuros por anticipado) se
tiene una transferencia del gobierno a dichas cuentas de aproximadamente 1% del PBI por afio.
Al corregir el resultado fiscal por dichas transferencias se llega a que en la actualidad el sector
p6blico se encuentra con superavit previo a realizar los egresos correspondientes a las reformas.
Por lo tanto, parte del costo de las reformas se paga con ahorro del sector publico.
II - Program Objectives
4. Dentro de los objetivos del programa, parece importante la precisi6n inicial que se realiza en
el documento sobre el exito obtenido en la aceptaci6n del sistema mixto, ya que esta situaci6n
determina que la realidad que se debi6 administrar ha sido totalmente diferente. En efecto, el
nuimero de trabajadores que en forma voluntaria opt6 por conformar una cobertura de seguridad
social bajo un r6gimen mixto o de varios pilares, super6 las previsiones oficiales, con mAs del
80% de los potenciales integrantes del regimen ya integrados. Esta situaci6n, tal como se expresa
en el ICR conforma un plebiscito indirecto sobre la aceptaci6n de la reforma.
5. Respecto al funcionamiento de la reforma en lo que refiere a los fondos de ahorro
previsional, se coincide con el diagn6stico sobre las limitaciones que impone la ley en los
primeros afios de la reforma. Sin embargo, se desea dejar establecido en este informe una
diferencia con lo expresado en el ICR. En el parrafo 7 se menciona que las administradoras de
fondos deben invertir la mayor parte de los mismos en activos del gobierno de bajo rendimiento.
Se desea dejar constancia que los activos del gobierno que deben incluir como minimo en el
portafolio, son activos que emiten en licitaci6n piiblica, cotizan en el mercado y son adquiridos
voluntariamente por distintos agentes, tanto en el mercado primario como en el secundario. Estos
mercados son competitivos y abiertos, arbitrando incluso con los mercados internacionales en el
caso de titulos como los Eurobonos o Bonos Globales. Es asi que en las ultimas emisiones, los
mismos han sido adquiridos por prestigiosos Fondos de Pensi6n y Compafiias de Seguros a nivel
mundial. En estas circunstancias es imposible pensar que los activos son de bajo rendimiento, el
rendimiento es acorde a un pais con calificaci6n de riesgo BBB- ubicado en America Latina.



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page 5 of 6
6. A via de ejemplo de esta situaci6n, en el caso de un titulo del Estado, emitido
especificamente para las AFAP y nominado en pesos (indexado al indice de salarios), cuyo
rendimiento y condiciones de liquidez no satisfascieron a las administradoras, estas directamente
no los demandaron. Es decir que las AFAP pueden elegir dentro de titulos emitidos en
condiciones de mercado.
7. El problema que surge de esta lirmitaci6n minima de titulos del Estado es la falta de
dinamismo en el mercado de capitales privado y la falta de diversificaci6n en los portafolios, con
menos margen para titulos de renta variable. Estos problemas son los que justifican las reformas
propuestas en el prestamo y no el potencial bajo rendimiento de los activos en forma individual.
III - Achievement of Program Objectives
8. Como biern se indica en el ICR, la gran mayoria de los objetivos del CSAL se cumplian
previo al desembolso en un uinico tramo. Siguiendo el analisis de los principales componentes de
la matriz de co ndiciones para el desembolso, se percibe la preocupaci6n a nivel del gobierno por
mejorar en fonrina continua el funcionamiento del sistema de seguridad social y los esquemas de
ahorros contractuales.
9. Respecto a la creciente flexibilidad en el regimen de inversiones se coincide con la
importancia de reducir el nivel minimo a invertir de titulos del gobierno y con el calculo de las
reservas. En los hechos se han cumplido los objetivos plenamente.
10. El segundo gran objetivo es mejorar la oferta de instrumentos financieros disponibles para las
AFAP. En el parrafo 17 se expresa que la norma del Banco Central determina niveles minimos de
riesgo cuando lo iinico que exige el Banco Central es que exista calificaci6n de riesgo, pero no se
establecen minimos, las AFAP son libres en su elecci6n y la informaci6n es puiblica.
11. El impactci del caso de Granja Moro en el mercado de valores es importante, principalmente
porque se trato de algo inusual para un mercado recidn nacido y por su tamaffo relativo respecto
al total emitido de obligaciones negociables y al total negociado por aflo en estos instrumentos.
Lo que no quiere decir que esta empresa sea una de las mas grandes de la economia y que por lo
tanto el sector productivo haya recibido un impacto en su funcionamiento.
12. Respecto al decreto sobre la inversi6n en bonos de infraestructura, que se esperaba emitir en
octubre, el mejoramiento de aspectos tecnicos determina que se haya postergado su emisi6n. Se
estima que la rnisma estara completa en el correr del trimestre.
13. En el caso de la agenda legislativa pendiente, se destaca que la ley de titularizaci6n de activos
(securitizaci6n) originalmente presentada al Parlamento por el Poder Ejecutivo, ha sufrido
modificaciones para contemplar los problemas que detectaron los legisladores y asi mejorar su
redacci6n y facilitar el apoyo legislativo a la misma. Estas modificaciones aceleraran el proceso
de aprobaci6n, pero hay que tener en cuenta que se esta muy pr6ximo al receso parlamentario y
que por lo tanito se estima que esta ley formarA parte de la agenda del Poder Legislativo una vez
finalizado el receso. En el caso del parrafo 27 se establece que el C6digo Civil limita la
securitizaci6n, cuando para ser estrictos, las limitaciones del derecho de familia afectan
principalmente a la ley de fideicomiso (Trust law).
14. El tema de la mejora de los incentivos y la eficiencia en la industrias de las AFAP es uno de
los de mayor preocupacion por parte del gobiemo y de la Divisi6n de Control de las
Administradoras del BCU. En el parrafo 34 del ICR, se trata uno de los temas que ha generado



Appendix D: Borrower Comments
Page 6 of 6
una discusi6n constructiva entre los representantes del gobiemo y los tecnicos del Banco
Mundial.
15. El centro de la discusi6n es el concepto de rendimiento neto relevante para una cuenta de
ahorro previsional. Considerar que los rendimientos netos son negativos durante los primeros
ailos de contribuci6n a un fondo que, cobra por adelantado un porcentaje sobre lo aportado (front-
loading commission) por la administraci6n a lo largo de toda la vida activa no es correcto. Hay
que tener en cuenta que se trata de un ahorro obligatorio y no voluntario, y por lo tanto este no se
puede retirar hasta el momento en que se cumple con los requisitos para acceder a la pasividad. El
retorno neto en el corto plazo no es relevante.
16. Es asi que se convino que la rentabilidad neta que se publique por parte del BCU corresponda
a la replica del periodo considerado, por un periodo de tiempo uniforme que se determin6 en 35
afnos, el minimo exigido por ley para acceder al beneficio de jubilaci6n.
17. Adicionalmente, el parrafo 34 atribuye el bajo rendimiento neto en los primeros afnos a los
altos gastos de promoci6n. Respecto al nivel de los mismos es dificil aventurar si son altos o
bajos, se trata de los costos al inicio de un r6gimen nuevo, con un alto despliegue de fuerza de
ventas para lograr la mayor afiliaci6n posible. En tal sentido, el gobierno considera que los gastos
realizados por las AFAP en esta etapa han sido altamente eficientes ya que se ha logrado en muy
poco tiempo alcanzar el 80% de la poblaci6n objetivo (en otros paises esta tarea ha llevado anios y
mayores gastos). A su vez, el nivel de comisi6n total ha bajado con el tiempo, transmitiendo hacia
el consumidor las ganancias en economia de escala.
IV - Major Factors Affecting the Program
18. Una precisi6n sobre el numero de decreto que reduce los minimos obligatorios de titulos del
Estado para las AFAP, el mismo es 57/98 y no 33940.
19. Por ultimo, las autoridades consideran que los cambios introducidos con motivo del programa
no son menores. El gobierno estima que dichos cambios son significativos siempre dentro del
marco general determinado por la reforma, no alteran el rumbo de la misma pero mejoran la
operativa en forma significativa. La restricci6n politica para introducir reformas que bien se
describe en el ICR determin6 que los cambios a los que se accediera tuvieran caracter
estrictamente tecnico, pero no en la filosofia subyacente, la qu6 ademas se comparte por esta
Administraci6n.



'  i3' />/ _r nV                                   50'                     5,                     514'
%t5  el   )   X   2  i    tk   /;   \ 445 05
(3,,1   g/                    K 
z  )  \                           *   0           <         = u le-osme>>5y       X   \            B R A  Z I L
H   tS                               r /          w                \       oX hIt;v~~~~~~~~~/ 
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
* A\d                                                                                                             1- R- t
A ROEN TINA                                           @WMONTXVIDEO
'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  -  "1' 1'1'4"Of "d 1A   "'4 fl4 C4'", ,1'Mt,4"
,,A'     G 4      I                                                                                                        + AS.. AdONEVDp hrn*1z
,~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ oo uo                                                  r HL                                   s[ -_P w   on R i
A.   5  :       ER/(/ I                                                                                                --r56dD5
> vF                                                                                                                    +  + -ol-o >h
>    iz UiiWal_IT    B                                                          R     9       X                                    l  rt
cN |  ;     L         8                  4           0            / B     t t      ;                                k         



