Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7190-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN IFHE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPLUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FORA
CONTRACTUAI, SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
January 7 1998
Finance Private Sector arnd Infrastructure
Country Management Uiriit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrict:ed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uruguayan Peso
US$1.00 = Ur$9.6 (September 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFAP        =     Pension Funds Administrators
BCU         =     Central Bank of Uruguay
BROU        =     Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
BPS         =     Public Pension Administration Agency
CAS         =     Country Assistance Strategy
ESW         =     Economic and Sector Work
GDP         =     Gross Domestic Product
IDB         =     Inter-American Development Bank
MERCOSUR =        Common Market of the Southern Cone
IMF         =     International Monetary Fund
PAYG        =     Pay-as-you-go pension system
SAL         =     Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL       =     Sector Adjustment Loan
URs         =     Wage adjusted pesos
Vice President:       Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director LCC7C:       Ms. Myrna Alexander
Acting Director LCSFP: Mr. Krishna Challa
Task Manager:          Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
CONTRACTUI.L SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Implementing Agency::    Ministry of Economy and Finance
Beneficiaries:           Contributors to the capitalized system of individual pension
accounts.
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amount:                  US$100 million
Terms:                   LIBOR-based US Dollar, loan, with a grace period of five
years, a final maturity of 15 years, and level repayment of
principal, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after loan signing, less any waiver.
Schedule of Disbursem ents: One tranche to be disbursed after effectiveness. Most
conditionality to be met before Board presentation, except
for one condition of effectiveness.
Economic Rate of Rettirn: Not applicable
Project Identification No.: UY-PE-50717
This document has a restriclted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



t



URUGUAY
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
L     THE SETTING
Economic Context ................................................ .1
Recent Performsance ......................................... . . . 1
H.  URUGUAY'S PENSION REFORM PROGRAM
The Old Pensiozi System ..............................................2
The New Pensioin System                ........................ 3
The PAYG System . ......................................................................... 4
The Capitalization Regime ......................................... . . . 5
Short and Long Term Impact of the Reform ............................................ 6
Fiscal Implicaticons of the Reform . ..............................................  8
The Government's Medium-Term Strategy for Pension Reform    ..  9
IIL   CONSTRAINTS AFFECTING THE CAPITALIZATION REGIME
Size and Structure of Uruguay's AFAP System .......................................... 10
Investment Regulations ................................................ .  11
Investment OppDrtunities            .    .     .     ....................... It
Eficiency Incentives ................................................ .  13
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
Background                          ....  15
Loan Objectives and Description....                              15
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy    ....15
Experience with Adjustment Lending in Uruguay    ....            17
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions  ....17
Loan Conditionlity               ....18
Disbursement, Rlecords and Auditing. . .                         20
Impact, Benefits and Risks          ....20
V. RECOMMENDATION .......... ..22
This report is based oik the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Mariluz
Cortes (mission leader) and Hemant Shah, that visited Uruguay in September 1997.
Ms. Anita Schwarz participated in previous missions.



ANNEXES
L      Policy Matrix ...........................................           23
IL     Basic Statistics of the New Pension System . ..........................................   26
IIL    Financing Implications of the Uruguayan Pension Reform    ...  28
IV.    Draft Policy Letter (under preparation) . ..........................................   30
V.     Status of Bank Group Operations ......................................... ..   38
VL    Status of IFC Investments              .      .      .......................... 40
VIL    Uruguay at a Glance                   ..............   41



INrrATING MEMORANDUM
1.    The proposed Conitractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan for the Republica
Oriental del Uruguay wotuld be for US$100 million, to support the strengthening of the
capitalization regime of individual pension accounts, established as part of Uruguay's 1996
pension reform. The loan would be a LIBOR-based single currency loan at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
L THE SETTING
Economic Context
2.    Uruguay is a middle upper-income country, with social indicators among the best
in the region. Prosperity enjoyed during the first half of the century enabled Uruguay to
establish a broad system cf social benefits. However, as economic growth slowed
beginning in the late 1950s, the fiscal burden of the welfare system mounted, state direct
participation in and regulation and protection of the economy increased, and the public
sector became an important source of new employment. The result of these policies was
inflation and economic stagnation. Uruguay has been undergoing slow, although steady
reform since the 1970s.
3.    The slow pace of r eform reflects an aging, conservative society and a consensus
style of policy making through essentially coalition governments. Moreover, legislative
reform is subject to veto through plebiscites, which in the past have rejected attempts to
privatize and to reform the pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension system. However, on the
upside, once reforms are agreed upon, there is little chance that they will be overturned by
succeeding administrations. There has been relatively high level of consensus among
policy makers regarding the development agenda and objectives in the past three
administrations, representing a continuum in the process of reform. Thus, given popular
sentiment against selling g;overnment assets, greater participation by the private sector has
been pushed by the use of'concessions and regulatory measures. In line with the general
consensus, the social security reform maintains a public PAYG pillar, alongside a newly
created private pillar. There is a consensus on social security reform among the two major
parties that form the current "national unity" administration, although there is still some
political opposition to the reform.
Recent Performance
4.    The current administration that took office in March 1995 has been able to
successfully launch its reform agenda of social security reform, modernization of the state,
and continued liberalizatien of the economy associated with MERCOSUR. It has also
successfully implemented an austerity package of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit that
had reached 3.1 percent of GDP in 1994. Despite a recession (triggered in part by low
demand from Argentina during the regional financial crisis) and a decline in tax revenues,
within a year the deficit had been reduced to 1.7 percent of GDP. A significant part of this
1



reduction came from holding the line on public sector wages, higher public tariffs, and
investment cuts. The economy is now rebounding from the regional financial crisis with
growth of GDP reaching 5 percent in 1996 and inflation declining to 24 percent. The
balance of payments remains strong, but the unemployment rate is still high (11.9 percent
in 1996) and savings and investment ratios are relatively low (11.7 percent and 13.2
percent of GDP respectively in 1996). The expected GDP growth rate for 1997 is 5
percent and for 1998 is 3.5 percent. Inflation is expected to decline to 15 percent in 1997
and below 10 percent in 1998. The consolidated fiscal deficit remained stable at 1.7
percent of GDP in 1996, as a result of outlays associated with downswing of the public
sector and the reform of the social security system.
5.    The Government met most targets of the precautionary Standby with the IMF that
expired in March 1997. A new precautionary Standby through March 1999 was approved
by the IMF Board in late June 1997. The targets are to keep the consolidated public
sector deficit at 1.7 percent of GDP in 1997 and to a lower percentage of GDP in 1998,
even though during this period the costs of the reforms are expected to almost double
from 0.8 to 1.5 percent of GDP (comprised of a 1 percentage point of GDP in the social
security area and 0.5 percentage points of GDP in severance payments). The ability to
continue reducing the fiscal deficit remains the most important short-term challenge of the
Government, particularly in view of the initial high cost of the social security reform. This
challenge is compounded by the need to reduce high labor taxes that increase costs and
reduce the external competitiveness of the economy, and contribute to high evasion rates.
II. URUGUAY'S PENSION REFORM PROGRAM
The Old Pension System
6.    Before the 1995 reform, the Uruguayan pension system was dealing with rising life
expectancy, low retirement ages, a high replacement ratio, indexation of benefits to net-of-
tax average wages in the economy, poor administration, and a high rate of evasion of
contribution payments. Benefits under this system were quite generous. Men received
pensions at age 60 and women at age 55, with 30 years of service. The pension granted
(replacement rate) was 65-70 percent of the average of the last 3 years' salary. Although
the system was funded by high labor taxes (27.5 percent tax on wages: 14.5 percent paid
by employers and 13 percent by employees), contributions covered only half of the
expenditures, with the Government providing the remaining financing.
7.    The old pension system was not sustainable. Demographically, Uruguay is a
mature country. The old age dependency rate in the population using the retirement ages
under the old pension system was 0.4, implying that there are 40 elderly people in
Uruguay for every 100 people of working age, a situation similar to that of Germany and
Italy. But, looking at actual numbers of pensioners and contributors, the picture is worse.
2



In 1996 there were 706,986 pensioners' and only 746,306 contributors. These data
suggests a dependency rate in the pension system of 0.95 or 1.06 workers per pensioner.
With a contribution rate of 27.5 percent of the average wage and a pension replacement
rate of around 65 percent of the average wage, there was no way that 1.06 workers could
support a pensioner at the given payment rate. When the population dependency rate and
the system dependency rate diverge so markedly, the diversion usually reflects problems of
two types: the number of paying contributors is smaller than should be, because of evasion
and informal sector labor markets, and the number of collecting retirees is greater than
should be, because of early retirement, excessive disability claims, and lax enforcement of
eligibility requirements. All of these conditions exist in Uruguay.
8.    The old pension ;ystem had, and still has, dire fiscal implications. Total pension
benefits paid in 1995, before the reform, were roughly 11.4 percent of GDP, while
revenues amounted to 7.8 percent of GDP. The deficit of 3.6 percent of GDP was
covered by transfers frorn general tax resources2. Moreover, the implicit pension debt of
Uruguay amounted to 300 percent of GDP, one of the highest in the world3.
The New Pension System
9.    Uruguay passed a major Social Security Reform Law (Law 16,713) in September
3, 1995, which restructured and downsized the public PAYG system and added a
complementary capitalization regime of individual accounts administered by independent
pension fund administrators (AFAPs). The main objective of the reform was to improve
the actuarial balance of the PAYG system and reduce the Government's future liabilities to
pensioners. The implementation of the reform began in April 1996. The social security
reform in Uruguay followed the pattern of reform adopted first by Chile and later by other
countries in Latin America.
10.   Structure of the Reformed Pension System: Workers in Uruguay now belong--
to one of four distinctly different pension systems. Table 1.1 in Annex II summarizes the
contribution rates, eligibility, and benefits under each of these systems.
The Old System, a defined benefit, PAYG public pension system, which applies to
all those eligible for retirement by end-1996. It is administered by the Banco de
Previsi6n Social IBPS);
I This figure includes retirees, survivors and old age pensiones who receive about one third of the retirees'
average benefit.
2 The figures for the whole social security system in 1995 as percentage of GDP were: expenditures: 14.9
percent; revenues: 9.3 percent; and deficit: 5.7 percent. If the special regimes are included (military,
police, bankers, notaries and professionals) the figures for 1995 as percentaje of GDP were:
expenditures: 14.9; revenues: 10.3; and deficit: 4.6.
3 This ratio is usually below 1o00 percent in industrial countries with populations of age profiles similar to
Uruguay's.
3



The Transition System, also a defined benefit, public PAYG pension system
administered by BPS, but with lower benefits than under the old system (see para.
12). This system applies to workers 40 years of age or older on April 1, 1996,
who did not opt for the new system and who were not eligible for retirement by
end-1996;
The New System, consisting of three pillars:
(i) a defined benefit, public PAYG system financed with employers' contributions
and employees' contributions on the first 5,000 pesos per month of earnings (at
May 1995 values, equivalent to US$728);
(ii) a fully funded capitalization regime administered by AFAPs. This system is
mandatory to all new entrants to the labor force and all those under 40 years of age
on April 1, 1996, who earn between 5,000 and 15,000 pesos per month, and
optional for all other workers; and
(iii) a voluntary pillar for workers with incomes above 15,000 pesos per month,
who choose to invest a proportion of their income above 15,000 pesos per month
in individual retirement accounts.
Special Regimes, applicable to the military, police, bankers, notaries, and
university professionals. While the eligibility requirements for pensions have been
moved closer to the requirements of the new system, professionals and notaries are
largely financed by special earmarked taxes, and the others are PAYG systems.
The New PAYG System
11.   Contributions: Total contributions under the transitional regime remain the
same, as in the old regime--27.5 percent of payroll--but employers pay only 12.5 percent,
while employees pay 15 percent. Employees were given a 2.6 percent raise to cover the
death and disability insurance of the capitalization regime. In addition, employers in the
manufacturing sector have been given a discount of up to 6 percentage points on their
social security contributions in an effort to lower labor costs. For those employees under
the new system, the overall contribution rate to a pension stays the same at 27.5 percent,
but both employer and employee contributions are applicable only up to a ceiling of
15,000 pesos in May 1995 values. Under the new system, employers continue to
contribute their shares to the BPS. All employee contributions on earned incomes of up to
5,000 pesos per month (measured in May 1995 pesos) also go to the public system.
Workers earning less than 5.000 pesos per month can split their contribution between BPS
and a pension fund administered by an AFAP.
12.   Benefits: Under the transition system, all workers receive a pension valued at 50
percent of the average earnings in the last 10 years at the minimum retirement age of 60
for both men and women, with a minimum of 35 years of service. The salary base on
4



which the pension is calc,ulated is further constrained to be no greater than 105 percent of
the average of the best 20 years. This stipulation is meant to discourage undue inflating of
the reported salary in the last 10 years. The increased age requirement for women is
phased in between 1997 and 2003. An additional 3 percent bonus is provided for each
year of work beyond the minimum retirement age and an additional 0.5 percent for each
year of work beyond the minimum 35 years. Should the individual not complete the
nmnimum years of service at age 60, he/she will receive an additional 2 percent per year for
each year beyond age 6C. Ignoring the impact of the increased period for the average
salary base for pension calculation and the increased eligibility requirements, the reduction
in replacement rate would lower pensions by at least 23 percent for new retirees beginning
in January 1997.
13.  In the future, undler the new system, public pension benefits may be reduced even
further. The salary on which the public pension is calculated will be subject to a ceiling of
5,000 pesos monthly, in May 1995 pesos. The formula for calculating the public pension
will be similar to that for the transition period, at 50 percent of the average of the last 10
years; but the actual benefits depend on the income level of the worker and whether the
worker has chosen to join the capitalization regime (see Table 1 in Annex II). In principle,
all workers earning less Than 5,000 pesos per month contribute only to the PAYG system
and receive pensions eqtuivalent to 50 percent of the average earnings of the last 10 years.
However, the Government allows workers earning less than 5,000 pesos to contribute half
their earnings to an AFAP and subsidizes those who decide to do so by having their public
pension reduced by up to 25 percent instead of 50 percent. The subsidy is phased out for
incomes between 5,000 and 7,500 pesos per month.
14.   Special Regimes. The special pension regimes were not included in the 1996
social security reform. They constitute 17.9 percent of expenditures and 18.8 percent of
revenues; a sizable part of the Uruguayan pension system. In 1995, the three professional
pension funds (bankers, lprofessionals and notaries) were in surplus, but the pension funds
for the mnilitary and the police were in substantial deficit. The Government has introduced
a bill in Parliament to incorporate these special regimes into the reformed pension system.
15.   Restructuring oJ BPS. The pension reform involves also improvements in the
administration of the putwlic system. The BPS has established individual accounts and
increased records auditirg, while reducing costs through investment in new computer
systems.
The Capitalization Regime
16.   Employees under 40 years of age and new entrants with incomes between 5,000
and 15,000 pesos per month in May 1995 values are required to deposit 15 percent of
their salaries in excess of 5,000 pesos into an AFAP. For employees older than 40 years
of age joining an AFAP is voluntary. Those earning less than 5,000 pesos per month are
allowed to contribute up to half of their mandatory contribution (7.5 percent) to an AFAP.
AFAPs are required to buiy death and disability insurance for their affiliates. When the
5



individual retires or becomes disabled, the account is turned over to an insurance
company, which then provides an annuity. Retirement annuity payments are denominated
in wage adjusted units (URs).
17.   The Government has been surprised by the high degree of voluntary acceptance of
the capitalization regime. BPS estimates that the capitalization regime was mandatory for
only 55,000 individuals. However, as of March 1997, 383,000 (half the contributors to
the public pillar) had chosen to join the capitalization regime. Prior to implementation,
surveys showed a maximum participation of 80,000 workers. Recent BPS estimates
suggest that 470,000 individuals may eventually choose the capitalization regime.
18.   There are several reasons for the overwhelming rate of voluntary affiliation to the
capitalization regime. Currently, about 9 percent of the affiliates are older than 40 years
of age. Older individuals earning more than 15,000 pesos per month have an strong
incentive to join the capitalization regime because of the ceiling on contributions under the
new system. BCU estimates that 13,000 individuals between the ages of 40 and 49 earn
more than 15,000 pesos and that 75 percent of them will join the new system.
19.   Second, the bulk of the contributors, roughly 700,000 earn less than 7,500 pesos
monthly. High affiliation among these workers may be the effect of the Government
subsidy they get by joining, but may also reflect widespread recognition of the precarious
financial situation and technical inefficiency of the public system.
20.   All pension contributions in Uruguay are collected by BPS, which transfers the
required funds to the chosen AFAPs within 2 months of receiving the funds. The two
month period is necessary since most Uruguayans work at least two jobs, and BPS needs
to aggregate wage data from each employer before determining how employee
contributions are to be allocated. Individuals independently sign-up at an AFAP of their
choice, declaring their own income. The individual declaration can be matched with the
declaration made by employers to BPS, allowing better detection of discrepancies than in
the past.
Short and Long Term Impact of the Pension Reform
21.   Short Run Impact Given the extent of affiliation to the capitalization regime4,
the expected short-term results of the reform of the PAYG system are declining revenues,
arising from the transfer of contributions to the AFAPs. While in the long term, a
downsized public pillar will reduce its costs, there is little decline in expenditures in the
immediate fiture.
4 In Uruguay, once individuals have chosen the capitalization regime, they cannot return to the PAYG
system. A brief opportunity for reverting was provided until December 1996, but that opportunity
has now closed. Very few individuals, approximately 0.3 percent of those who chose the new
system, opted to return in 1996.
6



22.   Impact on Reventues. In the short run, the reform is expected to have three effects
on revenues, one positive, and the other two negative. The positive effect comes from the
lowered incentive to underreport earnings. Prior to the reform, pensions were based on
the average of earnings from the last three years prior to retirement. Individuals often
reported and contributed on low income levels during their early years and experienced
large increases in declared earnings during the last three years. With the pensions now
based on the average of 1:en years of earnings, with a comparison to the best 20 years,
individuals have more incentive to report accurately. This effect is potentially the
strongest deficit-reduction measure incorporated in the reform.
23.   On the negative side, there is now a ceiling (of 15,000 pesos per month) above
which contributions no longer need to be paid. Since few individuals are in this category
and most of them would tend to be in upper age brackets where affiliation to the new
system is not mandatory, little impact is expected from this measure in the short run.
Unrelated to the reform directly, but concurrent with the reform, was a temporary six
percentage-point reduction in the contribution rates for employers in the manufacturing
sector.
24.   The switch to the capitalization regime results in the transfer to the AFAPs of
revenue otherwise available to BPS. Assuming that half of the employee contribution on
average goes to the AFAPs, BPS should observe a 13 percent drop in revenue with the
current affiliation rate of 48 percent. Over time, as the entire population becomes
affiliated with an AFAP, the fall in revenue could amount to 27 percent of collections.
25.   Impact on Expentditures. As noted above, the new pension formula reduces the
replacement rate by at leaist 23 percent for new pensioners who satisfy the more restrictive
conditions for retirement age and years of service. However, this reduction will be felt
only slowly since the old pensioners will continue to draw pensions at the old levels,
indexed to wage growth. Furthermore, knowing that the benefit levels and eligibility
requirements would change at end-1996, an abnormally large number of people requested
retirement in 1996, causirig an increase expenditures in the short run. Other potential
expenditure-reducing cornponents of the reform, such as lengthening of salary-averaging
period on which the pension is based and raising the minimum years of service, will have
limited impact in the shott run. On the other hand, the minimum retirement age may be
extended by 2 or 3 years beyond the 5 year increase of the reform, due to the low
replacement rate and the low retirement benefits in absolute terms.
26.   Long Run Impact. Downsizing of the PAYG system may not be sufficient even
in the long-run to bring the public system to solvency. By moving the retirement age for
women from age 55 to age 60, the population dependency rate will fall from 0.4 to 0.33.
Assuming the same rate of divergence between the population dependency rate and the
system dependency rate as before, the system dependency rate will only fall to 0.71 or 1.4
contributors per pensioner. This assumption may be optimistic. Nonetheless, taking the
1.4 contributors per pensiloner as plausible, the issue is whether the contribution rate-
benefit rate ratios look sustainable. On average, the contribution rate to BPS will be 21
7



percent of wages (not counting the 6 percent reduction granted to employers in the
industrial sector) and the benefit rate roughly 37.5 percent of wages (given that average
wages appear to be less than 7,500 pesos in May 1995 terms). Clearly, 1.4 contributors
paying 21 percent of wages cannot pay one pensioner 37.5 percent of the average wage.
The affordable replacement rate is only 29.4 percent of wages, suggesting that eventually
78 percent of expenditures can be covered out of contribution revenues instead of the
current 48 percent. This represents an improvement over the old system, but not sufficient
to make the system fiscally sustainable on its own. Transfers from general revenues would
continue to be important as a share of GDP.
27.   The great unknown, but potentially most positive, factor in all of these calculations
is evasion reduction. Currently evasion is estimated at 30 percent. With less evasion, the
number of contributors could rise, resulting in more than 1.4 contributors per pensioner.
Better documentation of working years could result in a reduction in beneficiaries as those
not qualified are rejected. Recent evidence suggests that an increase in collections has
occurred. In evaluating the effects of the reform, however, it should be remembered that
the pension system in Uruguay was in a disastrous state. The reforms are an important
step, but just the first step towards reducing the fiscal burden of social security.
Fiscal Implications of the Reform
28.   As indicated above, in 1995, before the system was reformed, pension
expenditures were roughly 11.4 percent of GDP, while revenue collected within the
pension system was only 7.8 percent of GDP, resulting in a deficit of 3.6. percent.
Government estimates (see Annex III) indicate that the reform will increase the deficit of
the public system by less than 1 percent of GDP during the initial years. In 1997 pension
expenditures will be 10.7 percent of GDP and revenues will reach 7.4 percent of GDP.
Since transfers from BPS to the AFAPs are estimated at about 0.9 percent of GDP, the
resulting deficit will be 4.2 percent of GDP in 1997, up from 3.6 percent in 1995. The
estimates for 1998 are: pension revenues: 7.7 percent of GDP; expenditures: 10.5 percent
of GDP; transfers from BPS to the AFAPs: 1.0 percent of GDP; and the resulting deficit:
3.8 percent of GDP. Estimates for 1999 are: pension revenues: 7.7 percent of GDP;
expenditures 10.3 percent of GDP; transfers from BPS to AFAPs: 1.1 percent of GDP;
and the resulting deficit: 3.7 percent of GDP. The Government estimates that in about
four years the reform will start generating savings to the public system. The proposed
loan will help finance part of the transitional cost of the reform in 1998. A possible
follow-up loan could finance part of the transitional cost in 1990/2000. The Government
expects to finance the remaining transitional cost from savings generated by the ongoing
reform of the state and of the non-financial enterprises.
29.   Although the reformed pension system will not be financially balanced in the long
term, the reform will reduce substantially the need for treasury finance of pension
payments. Government projections under the reform and no reform scenarios indicate that
by 2035 Uruguay's reformed pension system will generate a deficit of about 1.1 percent of
8



GDP. However, the old system would generate an estimated deficit of 3.9 percent of
GDP.
30.   Uruguay has chosen to finance the transition cost of the pension reform with
borrowing and by reducing public expenditures in other areas. Other Latin American
countries have chosen tc finance at least some of the reform through taxes explicitly.
While there is less positive impact on overall savings from using bond financing rather than
tax financing, the Bank is generally supportive of bond financing on equity grounds.
Spreading the transition burden across several generations rather than forcing one
generation alone to shoulder the entire weight of a social security reform is clearly more
equitable.
The Government's Medium-Term Strategy for Pension Reform
31.   The Governmeni has long been aware that the demographic profile of Uruguay
would work against the long term solvency of the public system. The Government is also
aware of the need to reduce labor taxes and find alternative sources of finance for the
public pension system. The Uruguayan society as a whole will have to decide the extent
of the deficits that they are ready to accept to keep the safety net of the PAYG system.
Given the past difficulty of reforming the social security system, any proposal to further
downsize the public system will have to be based on a widespread public debate on the
basis of actuarial models more sophisticated than the ones currently being applied. The
BPS is developing actuarial models to better assess options to improve the public system.
32.   The Governmeni is also convinced that the future downsizing of the public pension
system will depend on the financial performance of the capitalization regime. The returns
on Uruguayan financial assets are considerably lower than in Chile, Petru or Argentina, and
the asset base is highly limited. Thus, the financial performance will largely depend on the
costs of the system. Should the regime produce very low returns, the Government would
be more susceptible to pressures for a return to the old system. The Government is,
therefore, taking actions to introduce reforms to improve the incentives for long term cost
minimization of the capit;alization regime but at the present must work within the
framework of the current Social Security Reforn Law. The introduction of more far-
reaching reforms would require a greater consensus among legislators and the AFAP
community. The Government would like to use the period between this proposed loan
and a potential follow-ul) operation to organize workshops and seminars aimed at
consensus building on these second generation pension reforms and to introduce
incentives to improve cost consciousness among the AFAPs in a gradual way, to avoid a
sudden change in the rules of the game after only a year of operations. However, the
Government wants to give a signal that further reforms to improve results will be
forthcoming.
9



DII CONSTRAINTS AFFECTING THE CAPITALIZATION REGIME
33.   As with many other countries that have adopted a version of the Chilean model of
pension reform, the Uruguayan reform is a major step forward in restoring fiscal discipline
and equity in the PAYG system and in reducing the government's implicit pension debt.
However, Uruguay's capitalization regime shares some of the intrinsic problems of this
model, which discourages long term cost consciousness, efficiency and competition in
pension fund management. Coupled with the current lirnitations of the Uruguayan capital
markets, these problems are likely to significantly reduce the potential returns of the
systern to the affiliates. It would be desirable that the public PAYG pillar could be further
reduced in the future to a true safety net for the poor. This change would be feasible only
if the capitalization regime shows a good financial performance. Good performance is
possible if the AFAPs reduce their operating costs and are able to invest in higher return
marketable securities.
Size and Structure of Pension Fund Administrators (AFAPs)
34.   There are currently six AFAPs operating in Uruguay. Of these, the largest is
AFAP Repiublica, which is 51 percent owned by the state bank, BROU; 37 percent by
BPS, and 12 percent by the state insurance company, Banco de Seguros. AFAP
Repiublica clearly dominates, with 42 percent of affiliates and 60 percent of total assets.
Its portfolio market share appears to be larger than its affiliate market share on the basis of
both attracting higher income affiliates and attracting those who contribute most regularly.
The other five AFAPs are privately owned, similar to the pension funds found elsewhere in
Latin America. All of them are subsidiaries of commercial banks operating in Uruguay.
35.   Accumulated funds transferred to the AFAPs reached US$101 million by
December 1996 and US$129 million by July 1997. The six AFAPs are actively competing
to attract contributors through direct marketing efforts. Indeed, by March 1997, about
half of the AFAPs' workforce (1,266 people) was engaged in sales. A large salesforce is
justifiable at the beginning of the reform, when workers need to be informed about the
new pension choices. But, as the experience of other Latin American countries shows,
AFAPs retain a large sales force for many years, which increases the problem of excessive
account switching among AFAPs and high operating costs, reducing the returns to the
affiliates.
36.   The funds accumulated are being invested monthly in low-yielding government
securities (82 percent), bank certificates of deposit (15 percent), and bonds issued by the
Housing Bank (3 percent). The bulk of the investment is in Treasury bonds (about 70
percent), and the Government's US-dollar denominated Global Bond issued in July 1997,
with an interest rate of 7.875 percent. This pattern of investment is the result of both
restrictive investment regulations and the underdevelopment of Uruguay's capital market.
Widening investment opportunities in higher yielding private securities for the capitalized
pension finds is essential to improve their financial performance.
10



Investment Regulation s
37.   The current investment regime for AFAPs is heavily biased towards Government
securities. Although linmited financial sector instruments currently exist in Uruguay, this
policy of investment rest:rictions appears to be driven more by government concern for
financing transition cost; than by financial market considerations. Initially, a minimum of
80 percent and a maximujm of 100 percent of AFAP assets had to be invested in
Government securities (,efined as treasury bonds, treasury bills and pension bonds). The
Social Security Law allews for yearly reductions of 5 to 10 percentage points of both
limits, to reach a maximujm of 60 percent in such securities. In April 1997, the
Government reduced the minimum to be invested in Government securities to 75 percent.
38.   Up to now, AFAP investment in Government securities has emphasized US dollar-
denominated treasury bonds. AFAPs have shown little interest in Government issued
"pension bonds." These bonds are issued in wage adjusted values (UR) and may be held
only by AFAPs, greatly Limiting the secondary market in this security. Furthermore, the
interest rates for these bonds, determined solely by the Central Bank, are well below
market rates (UR+2.625 percent). Understandably, AFAPs have been reluctant to invest
in these bonds. On the other hand, insurance companies are currently required to invest
reserves arising from death and disability insurance premiums and annuities related to
retirement savings in the same assets in which AFAPs invest, but are not allowed to invest
in pension bonds. This is a shortcoming of the Law, since both disability insurance and
annuities are paid in wage adjusted values, making the insurance companies one of the few
parties interested in investing in "pension bonds," in order to be able to match assets and
liabilities.
39.   The Social Security Law also precludes investment by AFAPs in foreign assets,
although it allows foreign owned AFAPs to operate in the Uruguayan market. Given the
small size of Uruguay's capital market, it would be desirable to allow AFAPs to invest
part of their portfolio in appropriate foreign securities, to increase the returns and improve
diversification of their portfolios. This is a politically contentious issue, and the authorities
are not currently prepared to submit to Parliament a proposal to allow AFAPs to invest
abroad. While the intenl of the restrictive investment regime may have been to reduce the
risks of the capitalization regime, the results may be the opposite. In fact, analysis by the
World Bank's Pension Elepartment shows that tighter investment restrictions actually
increase the risk of the investment portfolio at any expected level of returns.
Investment Opportunilties
40.   Uruguay has a very incipient capital market. Only 15 companies are listed in the
stock exchange, with US$30 million capitalization, less than a quarter percent of GDP,
and US$4 to 5 million in annual trading. This is minuscule even for developing country
standards of market capitalization of about 15-25 percent of GDP. Until 1995, Uruguay
had virtually no bond markets. Following the enactment of the new Investment Funds
Law, in 1996, Uruguayai companies issued about US $100 million of private debt
11



securities through December 1996 and US$200 million through December 1997. The
Government is aware of the need to widen the supply and availability of investment
instruments to keep pace with the rapid growth of funds in the capitalization regime. In
the context of the preparation of this proposed operation, the Government has thus taken
several measures to achieve this objective.
41.   Uruguayan equity market development has been partly constrained by popular
plebiscites that have forestalled government efforts to privatize major public companies.
However, the strategy of the previous and ongoing administration has been to promote
concessions and eliminate the monopolies enjoyed by public enterprises. The Parliament
recently approved a partial restructuring of the electricity sector which will allow
competition in generation- the water and sanitation sector is working on a propogal which
will allow for an expanded role for the private sector through regional concessions; gas
distribution is now done by a private concessionaire; and the Government is
commissioning a study of the regulatory framework for the gas and fuels sectors. The
Government is in the process of privatizing infrastructure related to the critical tourism
industry by concessioning the road between the capital and the tourist beaches and the
port, airport and the water supply company servicing these areas. The financing needs of
these concessions are a potential area of investment for AFAPs. Special regulation is
required to allow AFAPs to invest in securities issued by this type of firm.
42.   The AFAPs have been unable to invest in private debt securities issued after the
approval of the Investment Funds Law because of the absence of risk rating agencies and
risk rating regulations in Uruguay. In the context of project preparation, the Ministry of
Economy prepared and issued a Decree on risk rating requirements and risk rating
agencies. The decree is flexible enough to allow the Superintendency to determine from
time to time the minimum risk rating requirement for AFAP investments.
43.   One international rating agency has expressed interest in opening a representative
office in Uruguay (as required by the Decree). Several others have indicated that they are
considering the conditions to operate in Uruguay. Given the incipient nature of the
Uruguayan securities market, it could take some time before more rating agencies find the
market attractive enough to open offices in Uruguay.
44.   A major potential source of private securities is the housing market. Banks in
Uruguay have started providing mortgage loans in US dollars and the Government
housing bank has been providing housing loans for some time. As in many Latin
American countries, Uruguayan's legislation, based on the Napoleonic Code, precludes
securitization of mortgage loans, or any other type of assets (because assets given to a
third party in trust cannot be separated from the trustee's own assets). A draft
securitization law was prepared under a technical assistance component of a Bank loan
(Ln. 3698-UR) but was not sent for parliamentary approval. In the context of project
preparation, the Uruguayan authorities prepared a new version of the draft Securitization
Law and submitted it to Parliament in September 1997. Since there is consensus on the
need for such a law, its passage is quite likely.
12



45.   In the longer run, a more far reaching "Trust Law" would be required to allow for
other types of securitization. The Uruguayan authorities understand this and are prepared
to work on a Trust Law and to present it to Parliament once the present backlog of draft
laws before Congress is reduced. However, because of the complexity of the Trust Law
(it may need changes in about 100 articles of the Civil Code), its passage may take some
time.
Efficiency Incentives
46.   The current commission structure and reporting requirements by the AFAPs are
not geared to induce efficiency and lower management cost of the pension funds.
Uruguay's Social Security Reform Law adopted a commission structure and reporting
requirements for the capitalization regime similar to those pioneered by Chile and adopted
by Periu, Argentina and others. All of these countries have identified extensive problems
of high commissions, high sales costs, excessive account switching among affiliates, and
the resulting low returns for the affiliates, and are considering changes in AFAP
regulations and commission structure to promote efficiency.
47.   Commission Strurcture: By law, AFAPs are required to charge a commission on
the affiliate's current cotntribution to the fund, at freely market determined rates.
Effectively, the law presc-ribes that commissions can only be charged on the current salary
base each month and nol on assets managed. Currently, an affiliate contributes 15 percent
of his base wage each month to the fund, and the AFAP charges a commission, of between
1.6 and 2.4 percent, on the same base wage (the sector's average is about 2.25 percent),
regardless of the assets under management. In addition, AFAPs charge insurance
commissions of around 0.8 percent of the base wage. This means that only around 12
percent of an affiliate's wvage goes into a capitalized account. This commission structure
results in very high comrnissions compared to assets for the early years of contributions-
around 18-19 percent on assets managed in the first year. If the rate of commissions is
unchanged, they would result in very low commissions as percentage of assets beyond 20
years or so, possibly well below the costs of managing investments. This extreme front-
loading of commissions (essentially a single lifetime up-front commission for every dollar
contributed) provides powerful incentives for AFAPs to incur very high direct marketing
expenses to get a high initial market share. This situation produces several problems,
including: (i) negative net return on assets in the early years of contribution for the
affiliates, (ii) early excessive entry of AFAPs unsustained by asset base, followed by likely
departures later, and (iii) a strong tendency for the AFAPs to neglect cost efficiency in
favor of market shares and thus lower the long term return to the affiliates.
48.   In view of the problems associated with salary based commissions, the Bank has
proposed that the Social Security Law be changed to require commissions to be charged
based on assets managed. The Uruguayan authorities agree that this would be a good
solution for the long-run but would prefer to wait until the asset base of the capitalization
regime has reached a volume large enough to make it attractive for the AFAPs to charge
asset-based commissions., and--given the difficulties of any legislative action in this area--
until a greater political consensus is achieved for a modification of the law.
13



49.   Reporting Requirements: Currently, AFAPs are required to report gross returns
in wage adjusted units. Reporting gross returns hides the fact that the affiliate's net
returns, after considering commissions, are substantially lower and indeed negative during
the initial 4-5 years, given the existing front-loaded commission structure. If AFAPs were
required to report net returns to the affiliates, they would be able to make a better
informed choice among AFAPs, and the AFAPs might be compelled to reduce costs and
change their competitive strategy from one based on sales force to one based on the level
of return offered to the affiliates. However, given the current fee structure, short-term
returns can be misleading, as the AFAP fees in theory cover the management of currently
invested funds for an average of 20 or more years. The Uruguayan authorities will require
the AFAPs to report to their affiliates net returns of the funds administered, but on the
basis of a format that takes into account the longer term effect of these investments'.
50.   Accounts Switching. One cost-increasing feature in many Latin American reforms
involves the freedom of individuals to potentially change frequently their pension fund.
While this encourages competition, most pension funds employ huge sales forces which
receive substantial commissions for convincing people to switch, raising administrative
costs considerably in the entire system. Marketing techniques involve door to door
canvassing, direct inducements in the form of gifts or cash, and occasionally outright
deception. The Uruguayans have looked at the experience of their neighbors and decided
to limnit the number of transfers among AFAPs to two per year per customer, with 6
months worth of contributions required before any such change can be considered. The
original legislation also requires that the individual appear in person to the office of the
AFAP from which he was withdrawing to allow the AFAP an opportunity to convince him
to stay. More effective in the long run would be to create incentives for the AFAPs to
offer differentiated products suited to different groups of affiliates and compete on the
basis of the level of return offered to the affiliates.
51.   Capital Requirement. Pension funds in Uruguay are required to ensure a
minimum return of the lower of 2 percent in URs and the average of the industry minus 2
points. To cover this contingent liability, AFAPs are required to hold a capital reserve
valued at 2 percent of fund assets, excluding holdings of government bonds. By contrast,
in other countries like Argentina, pension funds are required to hold a reserve valued at 2
percent of all assets. This type of regulation reinforces the bias toward pension funds'
holding most of their assets in government bonds. Thus, even as the legal minimum falls,
if this regulation is not changed, it would not be surprising to see little change in
government bond holdings.
52.   Treatment of Related Companies. Investment by AFAPs in related companies is
restricted to 10 percent of the pension fund. Up to now, most investments of AFAPs in
related companies have been in the form of investments in CDs of their parent banks.
Currently, AFAPs are able to acquire CDs directly from their parent banks without having
The first reporting of gross returns by AFAPs was in early August 1997. The range of returns in wage
adjusted units was between 9.29 percent and 6.45 percent
14



to go through a formal inarket. As a result, the related parties can agree on arbitrary
prices for these transactions. Requiring that all security transactions, whether with related
or non related companies) be made through formal markets (i.e. the official markets of the
stock exchanges registered in the BCU) would reduce the possibility of arbitrary pricing of
the securities. As the market for securities grows, the Government intends to further
reduce the capability of AFAPs to invest in related companies.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Background
53.   The number of workers choosing the capitalization regime far surpassed
expectations, increasing the cost of the reform for the Government in terms of loss of
revenues for the public system, and generating a rapid accumulation of funds in the
capitalization regime. In the absence of alternative investment opportunities, these funds
ended up invested mostly in Government securities. Concerned with these costs, the
Government of Uruguay approached the Bank in early 1997 to request an operation to
help: (a) cover part of the additional short-run cost of the social security reform, and (b)
increase the set of invesl:ment opportunities available to the capitalization regime.
Loan Objectives and Dbescription
54.   The proposed loam would support the development of the capitalized system of
individual pension accoLunts, established as part of Uruguay's 1996 pension reform.
Ultimately, the success of Uruguay's pension reform will depend on the level of pension
benefits that the capitalization regime can provide to its affiliates. Good financial
performance by the capiLtalization regime would only be achieved if the AFAPs are able to
invest in relatively high r eturn marketable securities and reduce their operating costs. The
proposed loan would support a number of measures to: (i) liberalize the investment regime
of the AFAPs to allow greater investment in private securities; (ii) increase the availability
of private securities to nmatch the growth of capitalized pension funds; and (iii) create
incentives to improve ccst consciousness among the AFAPs and transparency in reporting.
55.   The proposed US$100 million adjustment loan would be a single tranche loan and
would be submitted for ]3oard approval after the Government has complied with major
loan conditionality. The Borrower would be the Republica Oriental del Uruguay and the
implementation would be carried out by the Ministry of Finance.
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
56.   The Bank has long been concerned both about the public social security system
and the private financial markets in Uruguay. Both are highlighted in the CAS discussed
15



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
by the Board on June 25, 1997, and have been the subject of key studies in recent years
The Bank has also provided technical assistance to draft a securitization law under a
financial sector loan. The Bank is in a position to bring to this project a good deal of
expertise and experience on what has worked and has not worked in other countries.
57.   The Bank's Strategy for Pension Reform Assistance. One main element of the
Bank's strategy on social security reform in Uruguay concerns the distortions to the
economy caused by the PAYG system. This system raised wage costs and increased fiscal
needs (as indicated earlier, in 1995 the deficit of the pension system amounted to 3.6
percent of GDP), thus reducing resources available for improving infrastructure and other
investments, while raising the price of services provided by public utilities, which were
used for revenue generation purposes. The Bank and the IDB have continuously stressed-
-and most authorities agree with--the need to shift the public PAYG system to a safety
net, while permitting a more sustainable system to provide realistic pensions based on
invested returns, thus reducing the fiscal cost as well as the evasion/malfeasance of so
many beneficiaries.
58.   Another main element of the Bank's strategy concerns the need to expand and
deepen Uruguay's private financial markets. Uruguay's future as an international financial
intermediary is weakened as a result of the underdevelopment of its domestic financial
markets.
59.   The Bank's strategy is to support incremental improvements to the reform within
the context of the current Law, while continuing the dialogue and technical work needed
to ensure consensus on more far reaching reforms in the future. Consistent with this
objective, the proposed adjustment loan would support a number of key measures to
reduce investment constraints, increase the range of investment opportunities for the
capitalization regime, and promote efficiency in pension administration. A follow-up
adjustment loan to support the next set of reform measures is planned for FY99.
60.   Justification for Adjustment Lending. The reform of the social security system
in Uruguay will reduce the burden of the system on the budget in the long-run [even if the
reform is less than optimum in terms of increasing government savings and promoting
private investment]. However, the reform implies increased fiscal deficits in the short-run.
The Bank and the Government have estimated the transition financing needs of the
pension reform to be about one percent of GDP in 1998 and in the following years. The
short run cost of the pension reform could further increase if Parliament approves the law
to incorporate the special pension regimes to the reformed system, which would open the
possibility for their affiliates to put their contributions into an AFAP of their choice. This
6The Bank prepared an early report on Uruguay's social security reform program (June 1995), before the
Law was submitted to Parliament. Also, the Bank sought to assist the Government through ESW in
analyzing the effect of the old social security system on the environment for private sector
development through ESW (Februaiy 1994 and June 1995) and the agenda for second generation
reforms (March 1997).
16



would result in additional short-term deficits to the system that would have to be covered
with government resources. Up to now, the Government has financed part of the
transitions costs througlh domestic debt plus the IDB loan. Foreign borrowing to cover
the fiscal cost of the reforrm is justified to avoid the potential negative impact of crowding
out of private investmenit from domestic borrowing.
61.   Foreign borrowing to smooth the transition cost of the reform is also justified on
other grounds. Althoug;h under control, the current account deficit in Uruguay has
experience a growing trend, reaching 1.2 percent of GDP in 1995 and 1.6 percent of GDP
in 1996. A current account deficit of 1.2 percent of GDP is expected in 1997. The higher
fiscal deficit resulting from the structural reforms (the fiscal deficit reached 1.7 percent of
GDP in 1996) is one of the factors contributing to the current account deficit, along with a
relatively high growth rate. The proposed loan would help to finance the current account
and contribute to the diversity of sources of financing that has contributed to Uruguay's
success in external debt management.
Experience with Adjus;tment Lending in Uruguay
62.   The Bank experience with adjustment lending in Uruguay in the late 1 980s and
early 1990s has been miixed. Although most of the development objectives supported by
the operations were eventually achieved, implementation lagged. Implementation delays
were the result of the disparity between expectations of quick SAL disbursements and
Uruguay's deliberate pace in concluding sensitive policy reforms. The main lesson from
this experience is that adjustment operations should be designed to ensure Government
commitment to timely irnplementation, with maximum up-front conditionality. Following
this approach, the proposed adjustment loan has been designed as a one tranche loan.
Coordination with Mulltilateral Institutions
63.   The Stand-by with Uruguay which was approved by the Fund Board in June 1997
incorporated an "adjustor" for the fiscal impact of the reform of the social security system.
According to IMF calculations, the deficit resulting from the reform would be close to 1
percent of GDP in 1997 and 1998. Estimates prepared for this loan coincide with the IMF
calculations.
64.   Uruguay's social security reform program has been supported by a US$150 million
adjustment loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), approved in February
1996. The objective of the IDB loan was to support effective implementation of the
Social Security Reform Law and strengthen the institutional framework within which the
social security system operates. It was designed to be disbursed in three tranches: the first
for US$30 million and the second and third for US$60 million each. The first and second
tranches of the IDB loarn have been disbursed. The institutional strengthening component
of the IDB loan focuses on the reorganization of BPS and the creation of a supervisory
capacity in the Central Eank. We are working in coordination with the IDB. This loan
complements reforms supported by their Social Security Reform Loan.
17



Loan Conditionality
65.   As detailed in the Policy Matrix (Annex I), the loan would have conditionality
concerning the investment regime, the supply of investment instruments, and the creation
of efficiency incentives for the AFAPs. Some of the conditions have been implemented in
the context of project preparation, following recommendations made by Bank missions.
Since the proposed loan would be disbursed in one tranche, most conditionality would
have to be met before Board presentation, except for one condition of effectiveness. A
follow-up to this adjustment loan is anticipated for FY99 or FY00 to support additional
reform measures to improve the returns of the capitalization regime. The follow-up loan
would also be a single tranche loan with up-front conditionality.
A. Commitment to Pension Reform and Macroeconomic Stability
66.   Letter of Development Policy. The Government has presented a Letter of
Development policy dated December 10, 1997 (Annex III), indicating the importance that
the Government gives to this project and the Government's commitment to implement
reforms agreed under this operation that go beyond the loan's disbursement period.
Maintenance of sound macroeconomic conditions, consistent with the policy objectives
described in the Letter of Development Policy, would be a condition of Board
presentation.
B. Measures to increase flexibility of the investment regime of the AFAPs
67.  Investment in Government Securities: In April 1997, the Government reduced
the minimum required investment by AFAPs in Government securities from 80 percent to
75 percent. The Government will further reduce this minimum to increase investments by
AFAPs in private securities. At negotiations, the Government presented a suitable legal
opinion confirming that Article 123 of the Social Security Law (Law 16.713) authorized
the government of Uruguay to make scheduled reductions in the minimum required
investment of AFAPs' pension funds in government securities, and that such scheduled
reductions could be achieved through the issuance of an executive Decree. During
negotiations, the Bank reviewed a draft Decree announcing the schedule of reductions of
the minimum investment in Government securities in the next two years and found it
acceptable. Issuance of an Executive Decree, acceptable to the Bank, providingfor
scheduled reductions in the minimum required investment by AFAPs pension funds in
securities by the Borrower, so as to reach 55 percent on April 1999, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
68.   Special Reserve: During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a draft bill of law
modifying the calculation of the Special Reserve to include Government securities.
Submission to Parliament of a draft bill, acceptable to the Bank, changing the
calculation of the Special Reserve to include Government securities, would be a
condition of Board presentation.
18



C. Measures to increase the supply of investment instruments available to the
AFAPs
69.   Risk Rating Decree: In May 1997, in the context ofproject preparation, the
Government approved a Decree on risk rating requirements and risk rating agencies.
The decree isflexible, allowing the Superintendency of AFAPs to determine from time to
time the minimum risk r2ting requiredfor AFAP investments. Also in the context of
project preparation, the Government approved the implementing regulation of a section
of the investment regime to allow investments by the AFAPs in packages of consumer
credits provided and guaranteed by banks. During negotiations, it was agreed that
official authorization to at least one risk-rating agency to operate in Uruguay would be a
condition ofBoardpresmntation.
70.   Securitization Law: In the context of project preparation, the authorities finished a
revised draft of a Securii;ization Law to permit some types of securitization in Uruguay,
including the securitization of mortgage loans. As agreed with the Bank, a draft
Securitization Law was presented to Parliament in September 1997.
71.   Trust Law: As ,agreed during negotiations, issuance of a Ministerial Resolution,
acceptable to the Bank, appointing a working group to carry out an analysis of the legal
framework and thereafter draft a Trust Law, would be a condition of Boardpresentation.
72.  Investment in Irfrastructure Projects: During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a
draft decree allowing AFAPs to invest in bonds issued to finance large infrastructure
projects. As agreed during negotiations, issuance of an Executive Decree, acceptable to
the Bank, allowing AFA.Ps to invest in bonds issued to finance large infrastructure
projects, would be a condition of Boardpresentation.
D. Measures to increase the flexibility of issuing and acquisition of "pension
bonds."
73.   As agreed with t)he Bank, a draft law allowing the Government to issue pension
bonds in different currencies at market rates, and allowing all types of companies,
including insurance con; panies, to purchase them was presented to Parliament in April
1997.
E. Measures to create incentives for the AFAPs to increase efficiency, transparency
and returns to the affiliiates.
74.   Reporting of net returns to the affiliates: During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the formula tD calculate net returns using information on commissions and
returns in comparable tinle horizons, replicating in the long run (35 years, the minimum
time required to acquire pension rights) the results obtained in the reporting period. As
agreed during negotiaticns, issuance of an Executive Decree, acceptable to the Bank,
19



requiring AFAPs to report net returns of thefunds to their affiliatesfrom March 1998,
onwards, according to the methodology agreed with the Bank, would be a condition of
Board presentation.
75.   Treatment of Related Enterprises: During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a draft
BCU directive requiring that all the financial transactions made by AFAPs be carried out
through formal markets (official markets of the stock exchange registered in the Central
Bank), except for Government primary issues. As agreed during negotiations, issuance of
regulations by the BCU, acceptable to the Bank, establishing the use of market
mechanisms to trade in securities of related companies, would be a condition of Board
presentation. The requirement that all the financial transactions made by AFAPs be made
through formal markets is a first step to introduce transparency in the financial
transactions between AFAPs and related companies. The Government intends to
introduce in the future other regulatory provisions to control investment in related
companies, including reducing the allowed investment in related companies down from the
current 10 percent of the AFAPs' portfolio.
Disbursement, Records and Auditing
76.   Loan disbursements would be made under simplified SAL/SECAL procedures.
The Borrower will be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in its Central
Bank. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application
against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the Deposit Account for the
borrower's use. If, after being placed in the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan are
used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a) return that
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to
the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equal undisbursed amount of the loan.
77.   The Deposit Account may be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Copies of the Deposit Account audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than
four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits. The loan closing date
would be June 30, 1998.
Impact, Benefits and Risks
78.   Social Impact. Over half of the workers registered in Uruguay's social security
system have chosen to join the capitalization regime, a much higher level of affiliation than
initially estimated. The success of Uruguay's social security reform will depend on the
capability of the capitalization regime to provide decent pension levels to the affiliated
workers. If it fails to do so, the Government might be forced in the future to top-up the
pensions. The proposed adjustment loan would help reduce the risk of increased
Government contingent liabilities in the capitalization regime by supporting measures
aimed at expanding the investment options for the AFAPs and providing incentives for
more efficient management of the funds. Over time, a well functioning private pension
20



system will allow the Government to concentrate its resources on social spending for the
poorest.
79.   Environmental Aspects. The program is not expected to have any environmental
impact. It will be ranked as a C for environmental purposes.
80.   Benefits. This proposed adjustment loan would have benefits for the social
security reform and for IUruguay's capital market. From the point of view of social
security reform, the increase in investment opportunities in higher interest rate private
securities for the funds accumulated in the AFAPs will lead to higher returns on workers
savings. The introduction of incentives for efficiency and cost reduction in the
administration of the penrsion funds will lead to a higher proportion of these returns being
passed-on to the workers in the form of higher pensions when they retire. An additional
benefit of a successful performance of the capitalization regime would be greater social
support for further downsizing of the PAYG system. Further downsizing of the PAYG to
a safety net would allow the Government to reduce Uruguay's distortionary payroll taxes.
The proposed loan should be seen as an initial step in achieving these objectives. A
follow-up to this loan is anticipated for FY99 to support additional reform measures to
improve the returns of the capitalization regime. The other major benefit of the loan
would be a more rapid development of the private capital market, which is a major goal
for the Bank and for Uruguay, to stimulate higher rates of economic growth, contributing
to further reductions in poverty.
81.   Risks. There are several risks associated with this operation. One risk would be
the Government's inability to continue reducing the minimum investment in Government
securities to 55 percent after the loan has been disbursed. To reduce this risk, the
Government will issue a Decree announcing the reductions planned for the next two years.
Another risk would be the failure of the private sector to issue securities able to meet the
investment standards of the Superintendency of AFAPs. This may well happen initially,
but as the experience of 'other countries show, the demand for investment opportunities
from institutional invest Drs, together with a good regulatory framework, are powerful
incentives for the development of investment grade private securities. More likely, the
problem will lie in excessively restrictive eligibility requirements on equity or lower grade
debt imposed by the Superintendency. Most importantly, the main risk of this operation
would be the inability oi'the Government to propose in the future legislative reforms to the
Social Security Law, required to further improve the performance of both the public
pension system and the capitalization regime. To reduce this risk, the Government and the
Bank will organize a series of seminars on pension reform for policy makers, including
Government officials, members of Parliament, officials from the Superintendency of
AFAPs and AFAP managers. The seminars would focus on the reform experience of
other countries and on techniques of portfolio investment by pension fund administrators.
21



V. RECOMMENDATION
82.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington D.C.
January 7, 1998
Attachments
22



Annex I
URUGUAY
PROPOSED CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
Activity        Objectives       Accomplished       Assurances Reached      Actions to be taken before Board
Presentation/ Effectiveness
A.              Maintain sound   A precautionary    Agreement with Bank on   Maintenance of sound
Macroeconomic   macroeconomic   Stand-by through    Letter of Development    macroeconomic framework
Stability       stability to     March 1999 was     Policy                  consistent with policy objectives
facilitate further  approved by the                         described in Letter of Development
B. Investment    pension reform.   IMF in May 1997.                          Policy.
r  B. Investment    Reduce       Minimum             Commitment to reduce    Draft Decree, acceptable to the
Regime for      concentration of  investment in Gov.   minimum AFAP         Bank, announcing scheduled
AFAPs           AFAP             securities reduced   investment in Gov.     reductions in the minimum required
investments on   from 80% to 75% in  securities to 55% by  investment of AFAP's pension
Gov. securities.   04/1997          04/1999.                funds in Gov. securities.
(Decree to be issued as a condition
of effectiveness).
Commitment to propose   Draft bill of law, acceptable to the
modification of the     Bank, submitted to Parliament.
calculation of the Special
Reserves of AFAPs to
include holdings of
Government securities.



Activity        Objectives      Accomplished        Assurances Reached     Actions to be taken before Board
Presentation/ Effectiveness
Commitment to allow    Issuance of regulations, acceptable
investment by AFAPs in  to the Bank, allowing investment in
bonds issued to finance    bonds issued to finance large
large infrastructure   infrastructure projects.
projects.
C. Capital      Increase AFAP   Investment Funds
Market Laws and  investment     Law passed in
Regulations.    opportunities in  09/1996.
private securities.
Risk Rating Decree                         At least one risk rating agency
issued in 05/1997.                         authorized to operate in Uruguay.
Securitization Law   Commitment to initiate   Issuance of Mfinisterial Resolution
submitted to       preparation of draft Trust  appointing a working group to
Parliament in      Law.                    carry out an analysis of the legal
09/1997.                                  framework and thereafter draft a
Trust Law
D. Public Debt   Allow the      Draft law allowing
Regime          development of   Gov. to issue
secondary       pension bonds in
market in debt    different currencies
instruments     and allowing their
linked to pension  purchase by all types
reform.         of enterprises
submitted to
Parliament in
04/1997.



Activity           Objectives        Accomplished          Assurances Reached          Actions to be taken before Board
Presentation/ Effectiveness
E. Regulation of  Create incentives  AFAPs started to      Commitment to require    Issuance of a Decree, acceptable to
AFAPs              for AFAPs to      report gross returns   AFAPs to report, in       the Bank, requiring AFAPs to
increase          (in wage adjusted     addition, net returns to    report net returns to affiliates
efficiency and    units) in 07/1997     affiliates according to a   starting in 03/1998, and providing
transparency                            formula agreed with the    the methodology for net return
Commitment to regulate   Issuance of regulations, acceptable
investments of AFAPs in   to the Bank, establishing the use of
related companies          market mechanisms for AFAP's
trading in securities of related
.______________ _______________ _________________ ______________________ companies.
Ul



Annex II
Table I
URUGUAY; Contributions and Benefits
Under the Reformed Social Security System
(03/31/1997)
Monthly income   Contribution to   Benefitsfrom   Contribution to   Benefitsfrom
of workers      BPS              BPS             AFAP             AFAP
>7,500 pesos    15% of first     50% of 5,000     15% of amount   Annuity from
5,000 pesos     pesos            greater than    finds in account
5,000 pesos
>5,000, but     15% of amount   75% of average   15% of 2,500     Annuity from
<7,500 pesos    greater than     of income above  pesos           finds in account
2,500           2,500 pesos,
subject to a
ceiling of 5,000
<5,000 pesos,    15% of half     75% of half the    15% of half   Annuity from
chooses AFAP    income           average income   income          funds in account
<5,000 pesos    15% of total     50% of average         -
lincome         income
Note. $5,000 pesos at May 1995 values, equivalent to US$728
Table 2
URUGUAY Structure of the AFAP System
_ _ __(06/30/1997)
AFAP        Number of       % of Total      Asset Value in    % of Total
Affiliates      Affiliates      UR              AFAP Assets
Republica       159,185           39,1         4,201,278          58.2
Comercial       64,332            15.8          768,175           10.6
Integracion      60,290           14.8          676,559            9.4
Santander       58,355            14.3          973,867           13.5
Capital         42,839            10.5          473,800           6.6
Union           22,599             5.5           127,913           1.8
TOTAL          407,600           100.0         7,221,595         100.0
Note. UR: wage adjusted units.
Source: BCU, Memoria Trimestral del Regimen de Jubilaci6n por Ahorro
Individual Obligatorio, No. 4 -June 1997
26



Table 3
Investment of the Pension Funds
0_7 1/1997)
Type of Investment                    Percentage of Total Assets
Cash                                    0.2
Government Securities                  81.4
Pension Bonds (UR)                    6.3
Treasury Bonds (US,)                 36.1
Global Bond (US$)                    20.3
Eurobonds (US$)                       1.5
Treasury bills (pesosl               13.3
Treasury bills (US$)                  2.9
Securities Housing Bank                 1.0
Deposits (UAR)                        0.0
Housing Bonds                         0.9
Adjustable Bonds (UR)                 0.1
BankTerm Deposits                      17.3
Local Currency (pesos)                15.6
Foreign Currency (U';$)                0.4
Consumer Loans                         1.2
Total Assets                          100.00
Note: UR: wage adjusted units
Source: BCU. Superiintendency of AFAPs
Table 4
AFAP's Gross Returns Adjusted by UR
1997
AFAP                           July/August              August/September
Comercial                9.21                      9.20
Integraci6n              8.22                      8.69
Capital                  8.49                      8.14
Uni6n                    9.29                      7.67
Santander                7.41                      7.50
Republica                6.45                      6.66
Total System             7.29                      7.39
Source: BCU. Superintendency of AFAPs.
27



Annex HI
Financing Implications of the Uruguayan Pension Reform
1.    Uruguay undertook a substantial pension reform in 1995, whose implementation
began in April 1996. The reform has resulted in an increase in costs to the government in
the short run as individuals transfer a portion of their contributions to their individual
funded accounts. This represents a loss of potential revenue for Banco de Prevision Social
(BPS), the public agency charged with providing public pensions, while its expenditures
remain roughly the same. In the longer run, expenditures for BPS will fall, as the new
benefit rates become effective, and as further reduced pensions go into effect for those
who choose to join the individual funded account system.
2.   In 1995, before the system was reformed, pension expenditures were roughly 11.4
percent of GDP, while revenue collected within the pension system was only 7.8 percent
of GDP, resulting in a deficit of 3.6. percent. The Government has made estimates of the
deficit of the pension system under a reform and no reform scenarios. Under the no
reform scenario, the Government estimates that the deficit of the pension system will show
a decreasing trend until about 2020, when the defict will start growing again to reach 3.9
percent of GDP in 2035. Government estimates indicate that the reform will initially
increase the deficit of the public system by about 1 percent of GDP per year, but that in
about four years the reform will start generating savings to the public system.
3.    According to the estimates (see table 1), in 1997 pension expenditures will be 10.7
percent of GDP and revenues will reach 7.4 percent of GDP. Since transfers from BPS to
the AFAPs are estimated at about 0.9 percent of GDP, the resulting deficit will be 4.2
percent of GDP in 1997, up from 3.6 percent in 1995. The estimates for 1998 are:
pension revenues: 7.7 percent of GDP; expenditures: 10.5 percent of GDP; transfers from
BPS to the AFAPs: 1.0 percent of GDP; and the resulting deficit: 3.8 percent of GDP.
Estimates for 1999 are: pension revenues: 7.7 percent of GDP; expenditures 10.3 percent
of GDP; transfers from BPS to AFAPs: 1.1 percent of GDP; and the resulting deficit: 3.7
percent of GDP. According to these estimate, by about the year 2005, the reformn will
save the treasury about 0.5 percent of GDP.
4.   In the course of preparation of a possible follow-up loan, the Bank will work with
the BPS authorities to improve these projections using the Pension Reform Options
Simulation Toolkit (PROST) developed by the World Bank. This simulation model could
not be applied during preparation of this loan due to the limited data available on
population by age cohorts and on income levels of BPS contributors.
28



Table 1
Deficits in Uruguay's Pension System using Government Model
(as % of GDP)
Year             Deficit with no reform    Deficit with reform
1995                    -3.6
1997                    -3.4                     -4.2
1998                    -3.3                     -3.8
1999                    -3.1                     -3.7
2000                    -3.1                     -3.6
2005                    -3.1                     -2.6
2010                    -3.1                     -2.0
2015                    -3.1                     -1.5
2020                    -3.2                     -1.3
2025                    -3.5                     -1.2
2030                    -3.7                     -1.1
2035                    -3.9                     -1.1
29



Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This letter of Development Policy describes the economic reform program of
the Uruguayan Govenmment, as well as specific steps to deepen the reforms in the
social security sector. To implement these reforms, the Government requests
financial assistance from the IBRD (the Bank). Bank assistance is particularly
needed at this juncture when the economy is still recovering from the adverse impact
that external developments, including the hemispheric debt crisis of December 1994,
have had on the economy. We would like to take this opportunity to also present the
macroeconomic fiamework which complements the reform program.
L Main Policy Objectives
2.    The main policy objectives of the Uruguayan Government are to improve the
conditions for a sustained economic growth, improve the standard of living of the
population, notably the poorest, and reduce the inflation rate to international levels.
To this end, the current Government, which started its administradon in early 1995,
has adopted a medium-term stabilization program with the objective of strengthening
public finances, restricting the level of expenditures, and regulating the money
supply, in order to achieve a gradual reduction of the inflation rate. The stabilization
program is complemented with a number of structural reforms and a concern for
addressing some sensitive social areas.
3.    Most important among the structural reforns that have been undertaken are
the reforms of the social security regime, the tax regime, the reform of the state, and
an educational reform. Also, there have been advances in deregulation of the
economy and in privatization or concessioning of activities previously in the hands of
the state. There has been also progress in improving the legal framework for the
capital market.
4.    The social policy of the Government aims to assist the most vulnerable groups
such as the unemployed, children, young mothers, and older people of lower incomes,
providing them with better social services. One of the characteristics of the country
in the last decade has been the improvement in income distribution and in the main
social indicators. The challenge assumed by the Government has been to consolidate
and improve on these advances.
30



Annex IV
5.    Below, we wDuld like to highlight some of the key features of the Govenument
program.   These include the macroeconomic program, policies to improve
competitiveness, measures in the social area, and the structural reform of the
economy.
H. The Macroeconomic Program
6.    The macroeconomic environment within which the program of fiscal control
and economic stabilization was designed was characterized by a small recession in
1995, of which we vere able to come out rapidly. After a 2 percent contraction of
economic activity in 1995, there was a recovery in 1996 (GDP grew by 4.9 percent),
which continued duwing the first three quarters of 1997, with a GDP growth of 4.3
percent in the first cluarter, 9.2 percent in the second quarter and 5.7 percent in the
third quarter, with respect to the same periods in the previous year.
7.    This recover( was accompanied with a strong dynamism in exports and in
investment by the private sector. Exports increased by 10 percent in 1995 and by
nearly 14 percent in 1996. In the first six months of 1997, exports grew by 13.5
percent. Imports of capital goods, an indirect indicator of investment, increased by
12.7 percent in 1995 and 23.3 percent in 1996. In the first six months of 1997,
imports of capital gcods grew by 24.8 percent, in current dollars. The trade balance
showed a deficit of US$761 million in 1995 and US$926 million in 1996. In the first
six months of 1997, the trade deficit increased by 23 percent with respect to the same
period during the previous year, reaching US$410 million.
8.    The trade de:Licit has been compensated by a surplus in the service account,
leading to a sustainable position of the current account of the balance of payments.
The current account deficit reached 1.2 percent of GDP in 1995 and 1.6 percent in
1996. A smaller deficit of 1.4 percent of GDP is expected for 1997. The current
account deficit has been more than covered by inflows of capital from the rest of the
world through both, the public and the private sectors. The public sector has taken
this favorable opportunity to substitute long for short-term financing. At the same
time, there has beert an increase in the level of international reserves held by the
Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU). The moderate growth of the external debt, below
the growth of GDE', ensures a climate of intertemporal solvency necessary to
guarantee macroeconomic stability.  In turn, the accumulation of international
reserves provides greater liquidity, while reducing the net extemal debt to only 12
percent of GDP.
9.    Control over the level of debt for the reduction of the fiscal deficit, and the
existence of a curreni: account deficit under control are part of the strategy with which
the Govemment intends to reduce external vulnerability. This strategy is designed to
reduce the uncertainty faced by extemal investors. This program is reinforced by
31



Annex IV
Uruguay's integration into the regional economy (MERCOSUR), which bolsters
policy stability.
10.   The confidence and credibilitv of the model of gradual price stabilization, the
stable macroeconomic framework, and a favorable climate for investors, is based on
a responsible fiscal policy. The public sector deficit reached 1.7 percent of GDP in
1996, including the parafiscal operations of the BCU, and the cost of the structural
reform of the state and the social security reform. We expect a similar level in 1997.
The evolution of the fiscal deficit, not counting the transfers needed to implement the
two mentioned reforms, is showing steady improvement. The conventional deficit,
excluding the cost of the reforms, reached 1.7 percent of GDP in 1995 and was
reduced to 0.9 percent in 1996. It is expected to drop to 0.1 percent in 1997.
Similarly, the inflation rate has shown a decreasing trend from 44 percent in 1994, to
35 percent in 1995 and 24 percent in 1996. The inflation rate for the year ending in
November 1997 was 15.7 percent. The goal is to reach an inflation rate of 15.5
percent in 1997 and to continue a gradual reduction to reach one digit levels in 1998.
The above program is supported by the IMF through an Stand-by arrangemert
approved in June 1997.
[IL Policies to Improve Competitiveness
11.   Part of the Government's strategy is to improve competitiveness. To this
effect, we have reduced, to the extent possible, the fiscal burden over productive
factors: with respect to labor, by reducing employer contributions to social security
and with respect to capital, by reducing between 25 percent and 62.5 percent the tax
rate on net worth. At the same time, the cost of public inputs and services are being
reduced by substituting a specific tax on electric energy by a value added tax, and by
reducing the fees charged by customs and by Banco de la Republica for extemal trade
transactions. The Government has also eliminated some taxes on fuel oil and
improved the mechanism for reimbursement of the VAT on capital goods imports.
12.   With respect to the capital market, we have implemented several financial
sector reforms, including the elimination of the monopoly in certain types of
mortgage loans of the Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay.  Also, Parliament has
approved laws to allow enterprises to issue debt instruments, placing mutual funds
operations under a specific legal regime that provides greater security to the investor.
The regulatory framework for the securities market has also been approved and the
insurance market liberalized. The presence of institutional investors including
mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds, following the social security
reform, are a dynamizing element of the securities market.
32



Annex IV
IV. Structural Reforms
13.   Three importani: structural reforms were initiated in Uruguay between 1995
and 1996: the reform of the social security system, the educational reform, and the
reform of the state and of the non-financial state enterprises. The social security
reform is discussed in thle next section.
14.   The reform of ihe state and of the non-financial state enterprises imply the
reorganization of about 800 offices and units of the central government, and the
reduction of approximately 10,000 jobs and 2,000 vacancies, out of a total of about
75,000 employees. In the case of the state enterprises, the objective is to improve
productivity and efficiency to be able to face an integrated and more competitive
regional market. These staff reductions have a direct impact on the macroeconomic
perspectives for the fxture, since they imply greater financing needs now (for
compensation packages) to achieve lower expenditures in the future. It is important
to emphasize that the r.form is not restricted to quantitative targets, but that within
this program we are implementing major improvements in the quality of the
administration, with sp:cific emphasis on the management of human resources and
financial administration.
15.   The educational reform aims at breaking the poverty cycle, particularly in the
suburban areas, by increasing coverage and quality of education. The reform will: (i)
gradually advance the ninimum obligatoiy initial school age from age 5 to age 3; (ii)
increase the school hours; (iii) provide school meals; and (iv) improve the curricula at
all school levels.
V. Social Security Reform
16.   The social security reform encompasses workers affiliated with the Banco de
Previsi6n Social (BPS), representing about 90 percent of the population of worling
age. We have submittedl to Parliament draft laws to modify, within the same criteria,
the pension regime of the military, police, bank employees, notaries and university
professionals. This reform plays a crucial role in the overall framework of the
macroeconomic programn: it eliminates unaffordable expenditures in the future, but
with up-front costs.
17.   The social secuwity reform was implemented in the second quarter of 1996.
Its main objectives were to reduce a rising trend in expenditures, allow for a
reduction of the tax burden on labor, and improve the administration of the pension
regime. To this effect, ihe reform established, alongside the public pension system, a
complementary system Df individual capitalization accounts, administered by private
pension fund administrators (AFAPs).
33



Annex IV
18.   Prior to the reform, the social security regime in Uruguay was characterized
by early retirement ages for men and women, high replacement rates, indexation of
benefits to the evolution of wages, and high evasion rates on contributions. The
system was financed from taxes (contributions) amounting to 35.5 percent of wages.
One year prior to the reform, benefits paid amounted to 16 percent of GDP, of which
only 8 percent was covered by contributions, and the other 8 percent was covered by
treasury transfers.
19.   In order to reduce expenditures, the reform included measures to increase the
retirement age for wormen by 5 years to 60 years of age, extend the pensionable wage
base from the last three of employment to the last 10 years, reduce the replacement
ratio from 60-70 for men and 65-70 for women, to 50 percent for both, and reduce the
disability pension from 70 to 65 percent of the pensionable wage base. These
reforms will only reduce expenditures significantly over the long-run.
20.   Also to reduce costs, the Government has initiated a major institutional
restructuring of BPS to: eliminate irregularities; increase accountability; reduce
operating costs; and improve procedures and processes and establish security and
program safeguards. BPS has also established a system of individual accounts to
improve control over contributions. The Goverrunent is also taking measures to
reduce the high level of evasion of social security taxes. While we are confident that
we will be able to reduce the deficit of BPS, we are aware that the public pension
system could be further improved to minimize the future cost of the system to the
national budget. To address this issue, BPS will commission the elaboration of
regular actuarial reviews that will provide the basis for consensus building on how to
improve further the financial outlook for the public pension system.
21.   A  major element of the social security reform  is the adoption of a
capitalization regime. Workers under 40 years of age earning incomes of less than
5,000 pesos per month (measured in May 1995 pesos) can contribute half of their
contribution to the capitalized regime. Those with incomes between 5,000 and
15,000 pesos are obliged to put their contributions on eamings above 5,000 pesos into
the capitalization regime. Social security contributions to the capitalization regime
on earnings above 15,000 pesos per month are optional. Workers over 40 years of
age may remain in the public system or may join the capitalization system Up to
now, over 50 percent of employees (400,000 people) have chosen to put their
contributions in the capitalization regime, far exceeding our initial expectations.
22.   The short-run effects of the reform will be declining revenue, arising from the
transfer of contributions from the public to the capitalization regime, with little
decline in expenditures. Fiscal projections suggest that given the number of people
choosing the capitalization regime, the initial effect of.the pension reform wil be an
additional financing requirement of about I percent of GDP (about US$200 million)
in each of the next several years.
34



Annex IV
23.   Currently, the bulk of investments by AFAPs flow into government securities.
However, the Goveirnent is committed to gradually reduce the obligatory purchase
of government securities by the AFAPs, to allow for the development of a private
securities market in Uruguay. For this reason, we have reduced the minimum
required investment in Govermment securities to 75 percent and intend to reduce this
minimum to reach 55 percent in April 1, 1999.
24.   We are convinced that the success of Uruguay's social security reform will
depend on the level 4of pension benefits that the capitalization regime can provide to
its affiliates. Good financial performance by the capitalization regime would only be
achieved if the AFAPs are able to invest in sound but high return marketable
securities and to reduce their opera.ng costs. To this effect we are comrnmitted to
implement measures to: (i) liberalize the investment regime of the AFAPs to allow
greater investment in private securities; (ii) increase the availability of private
securities to match the growti of capitalized pension funds; and (iii) create incentives
to improve cost corLsciousness among the AFAPs and transparency in reporting
returns.
25.   In the context of this loan, the Government has taken or will take the
following policy actioins:
Tmaintain the sound macroeconomic policies referred to in Section E of this
letter;
To increase the flexibility of the investment regime of the AFAPs:
In April 1997, the Government reduced the minimum required investment by
AFAPs in Government securities from 80 percent to 75 percent. The law
allows a redLction of 5 or 10 percent each year. We will reduce this
minimum by 10 percent in each of the next two years to reach 55 percent on
April 1, 1999.
AFAPs in Uruguay are required to hold a capital reserve valued at 2 percent of
fund assets, excluding holdings of Governnent securities. To eliminate a
possible bias against private securities, we will submit to Parliament a
modification to the Social Security Law changing the calculation of the
Special Reserve to include Government securities.
To increase the supply of investment instruments available to the AFAPs:
*     In May 1997, ve issued a Decree on risk rating requirements and risk rating
agencies, to provide infonnation to AFAPs interested in investing in private
securities. If no risk-rating agency are authorized to operate in Uruguay in the
35



Annex IV
next few weeks, we will issue regulations to temporarily allow AFAPs to
invest in unrated private securities quoted in the Uruguayan stock exchanges.
*     A draft Securitization Law was presented to Parliament in September 1997.
This law will permit some types of securitization in Uruguay, including the
securitization of mortgage loans. We will create a working group to draft a
proposal for a Trust Law.
*     Large infrastructure projects are financed with funds from international banks,
the Uruguayan private sector, and the Government. We will issue regulations
allowing AFAPs to invest in bonds issued to finance part of large
infrastructure projects. These bonds (which may have the guarantee of the
Government) could pay interest rates above the rates of Government bonds.
*     AFAPs have been reluctant to invest in Government issued "pension bonds".
To make these bonds more attractive and to ensure the development of a
secondary market, in April 1997, we introduced to Parliament a draft law
allowing the Government to issue pension bonds in selected currencies at
market rates and allowing all types of companies, including insurance
companies, to purchase them.
To create incentives for efficiency and transparency in AFAP activities:
* AFAPs will be required from March 1998 onwards to report to their affiliates
net returns on the funds administered, to allow enrollees to make a better
inforned choice of AFAP. The formula to calculate net returns will use
information on commissions and returns based on a time horizon of 35 years,
the minimum time required to acquire pension rights), averaging the results
obtained in two time periods: (i) the last year, and (ii) the shortest period
between the time from the initiation of the system and the average of the last
five years.
*     We will also improve the transparency of AFAP's trading in securities
of related entities by requiring that these transactions be made through
established markets. As the securities market grows, we will reduce even
further the percentage of investnent allowed in related entities.
36



Annex IV
VI. World Bank Support
26.   The abovc synopsis demonstrates the depth of the Government's overall public
sector reform prograrn. The Government believes that financial assistance from the
World Bank is important to strengthen the capitalization regime and the capital
market in order to ensure the success of the social security reform.
uncerely yours,
!iste7of E nomy and Finance
Montevideo, December 10, 1997
37



Annex V
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 34
Active Loans
UY-PE-39203   IBRD42040    1997   GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY                 FOREST PROD.TSP                  76.00        0.00             0.00         76.00         5.47       0.00
UY-PE-8177    IBRD39490    1996   GOVT OF URUGUAY                      POWER TRNMSN 6 DISTR             125.00        0.00             0.00        123.89       28.29        0.00
UY-PE-8161    IBRD38550    1995   REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY                  HLTH SCTR DEVT                    15.60        0.00             0.00         13.16         6.28      -2.44
UY-PE-8171    IBRD37290    1994   REP OF URUGUAY                       BASIC ED QUAL IMPRV               31.50        0.00             0.00         15.90         5.53       0.00
UY-PE-8173    IBRD36970    1994   GOVT OF URUGUAY                      IRRG NAT RES MGMT                 41.00        0.00             0.00         26.11        17.64       0.00
UY-PE-8146    IBRD32210    1990   ADMIN NACIONAL DE USINAS             POWER MODERNIZATION               62.50        0.00             0.00         10.93        12.15       0.00
LA     UY-PE-8138    IBRD29210    1988   GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY                WTR SUPPLY RHB                    22.30        0.00             0.00          1.21         1.30       0.00
Total                                                                                                   373.90        0.00             0.00        267.20       76.66      -2.44
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  106.70              952.91            1,059.61
of which has been repaid:                  21.86               625.56              647.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  352.04              334.45               686.49
Amount sold                     :                  0.00                 4.62                4.62
Of which repaid              :                  0.00                4.62                4.62
Total Undisbursed               :                267.20                7.10              274.30
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex VI
MOP Schedule D
Uruguay
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1980/88/96            Surinvest               0.00    1.79    5.28    0.00    0.00    1.79    5.28    0.00
1985/92               Azucitrus               3.25    3.45    0.00    0.00    3.25    3.45    0.00    0.00
1989                  Migranja                3.30    2.00    0.00    0.00    3.30    2.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Granja Moro             1.78     .75    0.00    0.00    1.78      .75    0.00    0.00
1993                  Banco Comercial         2.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Consorcio Aerop.        4.00    0.00    4.00   10.00    4.00    0.00    4.00   10.00
Total Portfolio:                   14.68    7.99    9.28   10.00   14.51    7.99    9.28   10.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  MIGRANJA                 .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
RESTRUC
Total Pending Commitment:           .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
39



Annex VII
Uruguay at a glance                                                                 8128/97
....   a    CS!IL 160W             Development dlamond*
...... ........  ~so    ~ tl                            440Life expectancy
*A.,e,q: . i:,:,   rcwtt.  l, -,,,'.*
fAbct1bree(~~~~~~~~~~6j            to  ~~~~~~~a  ~~~            GNP                              Gross
per                            pnmaty
~~aeJrec~~~~samwaraJ~~~~~~s~~me 1188) ~~~~capita                                             enrollment
~~~~~~~:.   ...    ..   .  .   .   .   .    . ......   .gtoser
.......                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access to safe water
Ch~km(%o~ch5ch.woder8             -e -.
MWO           S.                               ....                 0 ..
rntean (I tppptaUw                     -- 1&t )                 13.:.- -14:: 
.2,..2'  i   '   2'  2.,...,,4',:.,2,,,.',,>,'..........
tCEV ' COMOMICRA1IO8 u".. ."'.' ..   M?A.. '2  2.                                                        .
3.5  4.7  ltJ  ~~~~         Economic ratlo
...........                          ...7                      penes f coom
t ao.c.P                            -.                      .       ~        1........... .....an;
.........t I.ak ....... .tte...t...0                                                            Indebtedness
.... ......                               -X.19640  is0   05 7t4
.............  ~~~- Uruguay
G2P  ;t 2                    32      '                                  ___ Upper-kekl-iome grup
Elaf410dande*vc- -4                                            ,s a a 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
fX od GOP)                                             1985      199S      1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   15.2      13.6       9.9     10.1      30 -
Industry                                      33.9     35.9       25.7     26.0      20
Manufacturing                               25.8      29.4      17.7      17.8       1
Services                                      51.0     50.5       64.3     63.9
Private consumption                           70.6     68.5       73.4     73.7    -10       91   92   93   94            o9
General govemment consumption                 14.0      14.4      12.8     12.8                      GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                 20.3     21.1       18.8     21.3
1975-85  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    1.0      3.1        2.4      8.2      30
Industry                                      -0.6      0.6       -2.8      4.2
Manufacturing                                -1.1     -0.6      -2.8       4.5     20 -                     0
Services                                       0.4      4.6       -1.7      3.8      10    
Private consumption                            -1.0     4.9       -3.8      6.4
General government consumption                 2.9      1.9        0.2      1.1              91   92   93   94             O's
Gross domestic investment                     -3.7      7.5        3.3     -0.6    -10
Imports of goods and services                 -0.5     11.2       -1.7     10.5              -     Exports     Imports
Gross national product                        -0.5      3.5       -2.2      7.4
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
40



Annex VI
Uruguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1988      1995    1998
Domestic pdces                                                                   Inflation fO
(% change)                                                                      ISO
Consumer prices                             81.4    72.2       35.4    24.3    100
Implicit GDP deflator                       66.0    74.0      39.6    28.393
so
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                        0
Current revenue                                      16.0      36.2    36.6             91   92   93   94   95   93
Current budget balance                               -1.4       3.2      3.8             -     GDP def.   0  CP
Overall surplus/defict                               -3.1      -1.0    -0.3
TRADE
1976    1986      1996    1996
(iilIlons US$)                                                                   Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                         384      854      2,106    2,397    4000
Wool                                       105      164       241     263
Meat                                        97      111       252     244      3.000
Manufactures                                        260       838    1,033
Total imports (cif)                         556      708      2,802    3,301    2,000                1     .L     _
Food                                        11       22      201      232               FiIII  iiiFuF
Fuel and energy                             ..       24       272     341           ['
Capital goods                               ..       65       394     502
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..      78       131      139           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..      61        91       97                 c Expors   0Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..    127        144      142
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985     198    199S
(milions US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services               551    1,257      3,504    3,729    4
Imports of goods and services               676    1,015      3,565    4,117
Resource balance                           -125      242       -61    -388
Net income                                   -71    -351      -227       18
Net current transfers                         7       11        76       74 o
Current account balance,                                                            90  Si
before official capital transfers         -190     -98       -212    -296    -2
Financing items (net)                       120      164         3      152
Changes in net reserves                      69       66       209      144      4
Memo.,_____________________
Reserves including gold (miL US$)           555    1,031      2,161    2,305
Conversion rate (locaWlUS$)              2.3E-03      0.1       6.3     7.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWlS
1978    1986      1996    1996
(nillins US$)                                                                   Composton of total debt, 1985 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        904    3,919      5,307    5,994
IBRD                                       69      152       513      446                           A
IDA                                         0        0         0        0             G            513  C
1336        ~~~~21
Total debt service                          327      568       900      847            1336
IBRD                                       11       30       117      103                                 746
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                            3
Official grants                             0        2        15 is
Official creditors                         -8       10         9
Private creditors                          44       17        88
Foreign direct investment                   0        0       124
Poritfolio equity                           0        0         4        ..F
2353
World Bank program
Commitments                                52        4        16        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               5       23        32       39      B-IDA    D - Oter multiateal  F -Private
Principal repayments                        6       19        78       70      C- MF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                   -1       4       -46      -31
Interest payments                           5       11        40       33
Net transfers                              -7       -7       -86      -64
Development Economics                                                                                           828197
41



