Report No. PID9655
Project Name                     Colombia-Water Sector Reform Assistance (@)
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       COPE65937
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
The Ministry of Economic Development,
Directorate of Potable Water and Basic
Sanitation
Calle 28, No. 13A-15, Piso 17, Edificio
Bancafe, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Carmina Moreno, Director of
Potable Water and Basic Sanitation
Tel: 57-1-2826352
Fax: 57-1-2822329
Email: Cmoreno@sias.gov.co
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Updated                 March 19, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2001
Projected Board Date             June 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues:
Poor Utility Performance. The main reason for poor utility performance is
inadequate management capacity, which is a result of political intervention
in management, political nomination of managers and their frequent
replacement for reasons not related to their performance. Poor utility
performance is reflected in the low quality of service provided and in
inadequate commercial systems, low billing and collection, as well as
inadequate maintenance.
As noted in B2, coverage rate values do not reflect the real quality of
service. A better performance indicator is the effective water service
coverage, which takes into account continuity of service and water quality,
in addition to physical coverage. The effective water service coverage in
Colombia, which reflects coverage of 24 hours per day with water quality that
complies with drinking water standars, is shown below:
The Effective Water Coverage in Colombia as Indicator of Level of Service
(Data for 1997)



Major Cities     Medium Cities   Small Municipalities     National Average
82%             46%              27%                      < 50% ??
Source: ACODAL, Estado del Sector de Agua y Saneamiento en Colombia, Julio 24
de 1998
These data indicate that (i) utility performance in the country, on average,
is less than satisfactory; (ii) utility performance in medium and small
municipalities is deficient; and (iii) there are great disparities between
major cities and the rest of the country.
Large Regional and Urban - Rural Disparities in Service Coverage. It is
estimated that 10 million Colombians (of a total of 40 million) do not have
access to piped water and about 15 million lack access to adequate sanitation
systems. The Atlantic Coast (Caribbean region), Orinoquia and Amazonia
regions present the lowest coverage rates for both services. Larger cities
tend to have better coverage indicators (both in quantity and quality) than
small cities and rural areas. The rural population, which accounts for about
30 % of the national total, has the lowest coverage rates, at 44% for piped
water and 25% for sewerage.
High Investment Needs. Total investment required for implementing the four
year water and sanitation plan (1998-2002) is US$ 1.9 billion or
approximately US$ 475 million per year. These figures do not provide for any
investment in wastewater treatment. In the past, funding of almost 60% of the
sector investments has come from Government resources, but given the current
economic situation the Government can no longer continue to provide such a
level of support. Consequently, there is a need for increasing cash
generation from utilities and for attracting private sector investment.
Low private Capital Investments and Credit to the Sector. In spite of
expectations, little private investment has been channeled to the water and
sanitation sector (3.4% of total private investments in recent years). Most
lending for the sector is made through FINDETER with little private
participation.
Limited Subsidies to the Poor. Cross subsidies are part of the design of the
tariff structure in Colombia and have proven to be an effective mechanism for
income redistribution in large urban areas. However, as the number of
municipalities in which the entire population classified in the lower income
strata has grown, the cross subsidy mechanism became less effective. A
specific mechanism, the Solidarity Funds,was proposed to allow a better
service to low-income groups while helping utilities achieve financial
sustainability, by providing an additional direct subsidy to the service
provider. However, these funds are supposed to be financed with municipal
resources. Because of budget shortfalls, the municipalities do not have
resources and the Solidarity Funds concept has not been put to practice.
Low Wastewater Treatment Coverage. Only about 5% of the wastewater generated
in the country undergoes any kind of treatment, while the rest is discharged
without any treatment, thereby contaminating a significant part of the
natural water resources. Contributions from the central government for water
quality control are normally assigned as a result of difficult negotiations
between regional and central authorities and there is no clear mechanism for
financing municipal wastewater treatment plants.
Weaknesses in the Regulatory System. The regulatory agencies (CRA and SSPD)
have regulatory oversight responsibility for over 1500 service providers in
the country. This situation makes the regulatory activity costly and
inefficient. Large utilities serving over 6 million inhabitants like Bogota
- 2 -



are regulated in the same way as those serving 2,000 inhabitants. Current
regulation is based on tariff setting formulas that were designed to provide
incentives for efficient services, but have not been fully successful in
promoting efficiency. Tariff levels are in most cases still too low due to
political considerations that override sector incentives.
Limited Coordination Among Central Government Agencies. There are many
institutions in the sector, some with overlapping functions in certain areas,
most notably MED, responsible for setting sector policies and strategy, and
DNP, which is responsible for overall economic planning. Both institutions
participate in the CRA, both design and implement programs and projects and
both participate in the allocation of funds for the sector. With similar
functions culture, coordination effort is a must. Utilities frequently
complain about the large amount of information requested by the government,
and about the costs associated with generating it.
On the Positive Side the following can be mentioned:
Adequate Sector Policy Framework. The Government of Colombia has always been
a pioneer in adopting correct sector policies. The decentralization policy
was enacted long ago, and promotion of PSP is a key sector policy. These are
advanced policies which provide opportunities for improvements in sector
performance. The government has also steadily provided financing to the
sector and continues to so.
Satisfactory Service in the Large Cities. The water and sewerage services in
the five large cities (Bogota, Medellin, Cartagena, Barranquilla,
Bucaramanga), which serve a population of about 12 million inhabitants, is
good, although not always the most efficient. The exception is Cali, which
is currently undergoing a crisis in the water and sewerage services.
Successful Performance of Utilities with PSP. The experience with the
privatized utilities (Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Tunja, Monteria,
Palmira, Girardot, Rio Hacha and more) is encouraging. The performance of
all of them has greatly improved, customer satisfaction is high and they
provide good examples for resolving the water sector problems. Consequently
PSP is emerging as a methodology which tends to be adopted by mayors who are
interested in improving the water sector performance.
Government Strategy
In recent years, the government of Colombia has embarked on a water sector
reform program aimed at incorporating the private sector into the management
and operation of public water utilities. About 50 Colombian municipalities
of various sizes have already adopted the private sector participation (PSP)
concept and are managed by private operators. The performance of these
utilities has significantly improved after transferring their management to
the private sector (see Annex 17 for details regarding performance before and
after PSP in some of the utilities). Experience in Colombia also shows that,
contrary to the common perception which holds that the private sector serves
better the rich and neglects the poor, if PSP processes are adequately
structured, utilities managed by private operators serve low income areas
better than the best public utilities in the country, as demonstrated in
Annex 19.
The government's strategy is based on four key policy objectives aimed at
improving the sector performance: (i) strengthening the regulatory framework;
(ii) implementing technical assistance programs; (iii) providing financial
support to promote modernization and efficient management as well as to
subsidize the poor; and (iv) rationalizing the institutional framework at the
national level to improve coordination in the sector.
- 3 -



Strengthening the Regulatory Framework. This policy aims at achieving a
stable and transparent regulatory framework that: (i) takes into account
differences in local markets; (ii) makes economic regulation (CRA's
responsibility) and its monitoring and enforcement (SSPD's responsibility)
compatible; (iii) harmonizes efficiency and social objectives; (iv) promotes
efficient operation and investment; (v) encourages investment by private
sector; and (vi) allows cost recovery.
Implementing Technical Assistance Programs. This policy objective aims to
assist in sector improvement through technical assistance which will be
provided by MED in three main areas: (i) utility modernization to improve
efficiency and service quality, both to public and private utilities of
different sizes, (ii) sector planning, at the sub-national level, to
Departmental governments, and (iii) improving the sector information system.
Providing Financial Support. This policy objective aime at achieving sector
self sustainability by promoting the concept that financing of sector
utilities would be mainly based on income generated by collection of bills.
When required, municipalities could subsidize the tariff of low income
customers or subsidize part of the investments using the revenue transfers of
Law 60. When warranted and when the previous resources are not sufficient,
the government will make available to individual utilities, under strict
conditions, additional resources from the national budget to solve structural
problems, generally through PSP.
Rationalizing the Institutional Framework. This process would allow to:
(i) Strengthening the coordination capacity of MED. Coordination at the
national level would be fostered through the strengthening of the MED.
(ii) Coordination of environmental policies. To achieve a balance between
environmental and public services legislation, the MED and the Ministry of
the Environment (MOE) would regulate the retributive charges in the water
sector and fix these charges to cover the costs of improving the quality of
water resources. They would also stipulate the priorities for applying these
charges to different user groups.
(iii) Coordination of actions in rural areas. With the objective of
integrating rural policy with water sector policy, the MED would coordinate
actions with other national entities, Departments and municipalities.
2. Project Objectives
The development objectives of the project are: (i) to support water sector
reform by facilitating the incorporation of the private sector into the
management and operation of water utilities participating in the project for
the purpose of creating an enabling environment for improving the efficiency
and sustainability of these utilities, and by providing them with financial
support to ensure their viability; (ii) expand the coverage of water and
sewerage services in participating municipalities; and (iii) facilitate the
access of populations in low income areas of participating municipalities to
water and sewerage services. These objectives are expected to be achieved by
providing: (i) technical assistance for incorporating private sector
participation in the management and operation of the water and sewerage
services in the utilities of about 3 medium size cities or regional
associations of municipalities, with populations of up to about 300,000
inhabitants, as well as in the utilities of about 25 small municipalities
with populations of up to about 12,000 inhabitants; and (ii) financial
support to the utilities which have successfully incorporated the private
sector; and which will be directed at benefiting the poor, as well as
- 4 -



ensuring the financial viability of these utilities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Brings Bank experience and intellectual leadership with private participation
in the water, sanitation and other sectors, gained in the region and
elsewhere in the world.
Introduces transparency to the privatization process.
Brings techniques and experiences in extending water and sanitation services
to the poor on a large scale.
Brings management discipline to the project.
Bank financing will act as catalyst for private sector financing.
Brings credibility to the project, thereby promoting participation of private
operators.
4. Project Description
The project would consist of the following components:
Project Component A - Investments in Medium Size Cities - US$ 27.5 million
Al. Providing financial support to partially finance the public sector
funding requirements of the water and sanitation infrastructure in the medium
size cities participating in the project, and execution of the respective
works (US$ 15 million). This sub-component is the second largest of the
project and represents an important project activity. Under this
sub-component, civil works and equipment for water supply and sanitation will
be financed by the loan funds as contribution of the public sector to the
investments in water and sanitation infrastructure which cannot be financed
by the private sector since the tariff level is not sufficient to recover the
cost of these investments. The loan funds allocated for each city will be
determined on the basis of the financial model utilized during the
preparation of the respective PSP processes and the availability of loan
funds. It will be attempted to provide loan funds in the amount requested by
the winning bidder, and if this would not be possible, than to provide at
least an amount which would ensure the sustainability of the transaction.
The funds allocated for each city will not be transferred to the private
operator but rather used to finance infrastructure works considered of high
priority by the operator and which have been approved by the municipal
authorities and by the PIU. In this form, the private operator will not
receive a financial contribution from the government, but rather the right to
operate additional infrastructure which is owned by the municipality, and
whose value is equivalent or close to the amount of the subsidy which he
requested in his proposal. Under the project, the government in effect
finances additional infrastructure for the city. In each city, the works
financed by the government will be designed by the private sector managed
utilities and the executing agency of each subproject will be the water
utility of the city. In this manner it will be assured that the
infrastructure provided by the government will be totally satisfactory and
will meet the requirements of the private operator. The PIU at the Ministry
of Economic Development will oversee, in cooperation with the municipal
authorities, the implementation activities and will ensure that Bank
procurement guidelines are followed when Bank funds are used. The
supervision and control of the PSP contract after the completion of works
will be the responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality.
The PIU will provide respective guidance and the municipality may hire an
individual consultant or a consulting firm, on a full or partial time
- 5-



assignment, to carry out the control of the PSP contract and determine if the
performance targets are achieved by the operator.
A2. Execution of works financed by the private sector and by Law 60
resources (US$ 12.5 million). According to the operation contract, the
private operators commit to finance a portion of the required works in each
city. The investments provided by the private operators will be recovered
from tariff incomes. The execution of the works financed by the private
operators form part of the project and they will include water supply and
sanitation works, as well as supply and installation of equipment. Since
these works are totally financed by the private sector and not involve any
Bank financing, the private operators will use their own procurement
procedure to implement these works, which will certainly not be the
procedures prescribed by the Bank procurement guidelines. In addition, as
part of the PSP transaction, participating municipalities will be requested
by the government to commit to provide to the water utilities each year a
portion of their annual Law 60 income. These proceeds will also be used to
finance water supply and sanitation works, the execution of which forms part
of the project. The execution of the works financed by the private sector
and by Law 60 will be the responsibility of the privatized utilities and will
be managed by them, with no intervention of the PIU. The control of the
implementation of these works will be undertaken as part of the control of
the private operator's contract and will be the responsibility of the
contracting agency, i.e., the municipality.
Project Component B - Investments in Small Municipalities - US$ 32.3 million
Bi. Providing financial support to partially finance the public sector
funding requirements of the water and sanitation infrastructure in the 25
participating small municipalities, and execution of the respective works
(US$ 29.7 million). This sub-component is the largest in terms of project
funds allocated for it and represent the main effort of the project. Under
this sub-component, civil works and equipment for water supply and sanitation
will be financed by the loan funds as contribution of the public sector to
the investments in water and sanitation infrastructure which cannot be
financed by the private sector since the tariff level is not sufficient to
recover the cost of these investments. Taking into account that most of the
population in small municipalities is of low income, it is expected that most
of the investments in this type of municipalities will need to be provided
from public resources, mainly through the loan funding. The works will be
designed by consultants which will be hired by the PIU and will be
constructed by the private operator of each municipality, under the
"constructor-operator" principle. The constructors-operators will be
selected using model bidding documents which have been especially prepared
for this project. The winning bidder may submit an alternative design, which
might be approved by the contacting authority if found to be advantageous.
The PIU at the Ministry of Economic Development will oversee, in cooperation
with the municipal authorities, the implementation activities of the works.
The supervision and control of the PSP contract after the completion of works
will be the responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality.
The PIU will provide respective guidance and the municipality may hire an
individual consultant or a consulting firm, most probably on a partial time
assignment, to carry out the control of the PSP contract and determine if the
performance targets are achieved by the operator. The "constructors-
operators" will, most probably, be small entrepreneurs who may have limited
- 6 -



access to credit. Since they will need such access in order to be eligible
to participate in the bidding processes and to finance a portion of the
works, the project will help them obtain a credit guarantee through the
Fondos Nacional de Guarantias (FNG), a government agency whose purpose is to
promote the activity of small firms and entrepreneurs by providing them with
credit guarantees. The PIU is working with FNG to ensure the provision of
guarantees to "constructors-operators" participating in the project. It is
estimated that a deposit of about US$ 500,000 will need to be made in favor
of FNG to ensure issuing the required guarantees. This deposit, which forms
part of small municipalities component of the project, will be made out of
the counterpart funds and will be returned to the government in due course.
B2. Execution of works financed by Law 60 resources and by the private
sector (US$ 2.5 million). As part of the PSP transaction, municipalities will
be required to commit to provide to the water utilities each year a portion
of their annual Law 60 income. These proceeds will be used to finance water
supply and sanitation works, the execution of which forms part of the
project. In certain cases the Constructors-Operators may commit to finance a
portion of the required works which can be recovered from tariff incomes.
The execution of such works also comprises part of the project. The works
financed by Law 60 and the private sector resources are expected to form a
small portion of the total investments and they will be implemented under the
same procurement procedures as the works financed by the government.
Project Component C - Sector Environmental Management Capacity Strengthening
- US$ 0.7 million
Strengthening sector environmental management capacity will be achieved
mainly through: (i) modifying and strengthening key environmental
regulations, especially the existing water quality and effluent discharge
regulations; (ii) establishing sector wide criteria for the environmental
management of water and sanitation projects (siting, design, construction and
operation), completing the existing sector technical specifications; (iii)
defining environmental requirements to be included in bidding documents and
private sector operation contracts; (iv) defining methodologies and programs
for environmental audits of water and sanitation facilities; (v)
strengthening the environmental management capabilities of the sector as a
whole, especially the Directorate of water and Sanitation in the Ministry of
Economic Development; (vi) streamlining the environmental licensing
procedures for water and sanitation projects in regional environmental
agencies; (vii) sponsoring training programs on environment for water and
sanitation system operators; and (viii) defining of public participation and
community consultation criteria and procedures for water and sanitation
projects.
Project Component D - Rural Water and Sanitation Policy Development - US$ 1.0
million
This component consists of Providing technical assistance to support the
development of the rural water and sanitation sector policy, strategy and
methods for incrementing water and sanitation coverage in the rural sector.
The strategy development might include an implementation of a pilot program
for testing alternative strategies, focusing on the Caribbean region.
Project Component E - Project Management and Training, PSP Technical
-7 -



Assistance, Studies and Supervision of Works - US$ 8.2 million
El. Project Management and Training (US$ 3.5 million). Financing the
activity of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Economic
Development. This PIU will be the implementing agency of the project on
behalf of the government. It will consist of about 17 consultants who would
be in charge of implementing all the technical assistance activities of the
project and of overseeing the implementation of works which would be carried
out under the responsibility of the participating privately operated water
utilities. One of the main tasks of the PIU is to carry out the
"socialization" program involved in the project, which for each potential
participating municipality includes providing all the information to
interested mayors and convincing them to participate, convincing the
municipal councils to approve the participation of their municipality in the
project, carrying out the public information and consultation campaigns,
convincing community representatives, business community representatives NGOs
and other important stakeholders to support PSP etc. The PIU will also be
responsible for the financial management of the project, for ensuring that
Bank procurement guidelines are used as required, for disbursements, auditing
and reporting. All the training activities of the project form part of this
sub-component. This include training of the PIU staff and training of the
individual implementation units of each subproject, i.e., training of medium
size utilities staff in Bank procurement procedures and training of
Constructors-Operators in water utilities management procedures.
E2. Providing technical assistance to carry out the processes of
incorporating the private sector in the management and operation of the water
and sanitation utilities in about 3 medium size cities (US$1.7 million).
This sub-component represents an important project activity and would entail
provision of technical assistance for the completion of incorporating the
private sector in the management and operation of the participating water
utilities in medium size cities, which has started during project
preparation, or if necessary, initiation of processes in new cities and
carrying them out to successful completion. The PIU staff will assist the
municipalities in hiring the consulting services needed to carry out the PSP
processes, which will be financed by the project. The PIU staff will also
accompany the municipal authorities of each city all along the process up to
the point of signing the operation contract by the Mayor and the successful
bidder, and will provide all the assistance needed along the way. This
assistance will include review of the work of the consultants hired for
preparing and structuring the PSP processes, especially the program of works
and investments (POI) and the financial projections, assistance in preparing
the bidding documents, assistance in carrying out the bidding processes for
selecting the private operator and in evaluating the proposals submitted.
After the award of the operation contract and initiation of the execution of
the works financed by the government, the TA will include the hiring of
consulting firms to supervise the works.
E3. Providing technical assistance to carry out the processes of
incorporating the private sector in the management and operation of the water
and sanitation utilities in about 25 small municipalities (US$ 3 million).
This sub-component represent the main effort of the project. The PIU staff
will get in touch with mayors of potential small municipalities and will
carry out the socialization of the processes, the first step of which is to
convince the mayors to participate in the project. The PIU staff will then
- 8 -



assist the municipalities in hiring the consulting services needed to carry
out the PSP processes, which will be financed by the project. The PIU staff
will also accompany the municipal authorities of each city all along the
process up to the point of signing the operation contract by the mayor and
the successful bidder, and will provide all the assistance needed along the
way. This assistance will include review of the work of the consultants
hired for preparing and structuring the PSP processes, especially the program
of works and investments (POI) and the financial projections, assistance in
preparing the bidding documents, assistance in carrying out the bidding
processes for selecting Constructor-Operator and in evaluating the proposals
submitted. After the award of the operation contract and initiation of the
execution of the works financed by the government, the TA will include the
hiring of consulting firms to supervise the works executed by the
Constructor-Operator. A pilot of incorporating the private sector in the
management of five small municipalities has been carried out during project
preparation, two of which have been successfully completed by awarding and
signing PSP contracts. The experience gained from this pilot has been
incorporated in the design of the project and will be incorporated in
implementing the activities for structuring the PSP processes in the small
municipalities which will participate in the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                               15
IBRD                             40
PRIVATE SECTOR AND MUNICIPALITIES                 15
Total Project Cost                                70
6. Implementation
Implementation period: The project implementation period is 5 years, starting
on October 2001 and closing on December 2006.
Borrower and Executing Agencies: The Borrower is the Government of Colombia.
The ministry in charge is the Ministry of Economic Development (MED). The
executing agency of the TA component of the project is the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Directorate of Water Supply and Basic
Sanitation (Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico) in the Ministry
of Economic Development.
The executing agency of each investment subproject which corresponds to each
participating municipality, will be the utility of the municipality, managed
by a private operator. The PIU will control and monitor the performance of
the executing agency of each subproject and will ensure that when using Bank
funds, they will comply with all the Bank's procurement guidelines. The PIU
will also provide appropriate training to the executing agencies.
Project Management: Overall project management will be carried out under the
guidance of the Director of Water and Basic Sanitation in MED, who will also
be responsible for policy issues and overall coordination with municipal and
departmental governments. The PIU in MED will be the financial and
implementation agency of the project. It will supervise the implementation
of subprojects and manage all the technical assistance activities through a
team of about 17 consultants financed under the Loan. This team has been
working in the implementation of component E of Loan 3336-CO, which supported
the preparation of the proposed project, and has gained valuable experience
-9-



in structuring PSP processes, in social aspects related to PSP and in Bank
procedures related to procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing, all
of which will help it to manage the project successfully. Detailed
description of the PIU functions will be included in the Project Operational
Manual.
Oversight of project management will be provided by an inter-institutional
committee formed specifically for this project "Comite Coordinador
Interinstitucional DNP-MDE" formed by representatives of MED and of two units
of the National Department of Planning (DNP): (i) DDUPRE; and (ii) the
Caribbean Plan Program.
Procurement: When implementing works financed by Bank funds, the subprojects
implementation agencies, i.e., the private operators, will adhere to the Bank
procurement guidelines, whereas when using their own funds for financing the
investment portion which they have committed to provide, they might use other
procurement procedures. The PIU will provide procurement training to the
executing agencies and will control and monitor their performance and ensure
that they comply with the Bank procurement guidelines. In the technical
assistance components which will be implemented under the responsibility of
the PIU and financed by the Bank, Bank procurement guidelines will be used
for hiring of consultants and purchasing goods.
Flow of funds: Financial management will be the responsibility of the PIU.
Funds will be administered through a fiduciary agency, which will open two
special accounts, one for depositing the loan funds originating from the Bank
and the other for depositing government counterpart funds. The PIU will
receive withdrawal requests from the participating executing agencies and
will authorize them as warranted, instructing the fiduciary agency to
transfer corresponding amounts to the individual executing agencies. The PIU
will also instruct the fiduciary agency to execute payments to consultants,
goods and service providers, in conjunction with activities under the TA
components. The PIU will be responsible for reporting and for sending
withdrawal applications to the Bank. The PIU will also be responsible for
management of the counterpart funds contributed by the government, including
replenishing the counterpart funds' special account.
Financial management, reporting and auditing: Both the accounting and
financial management of the project will be the responsibility of the PIU. A
financial management assessment of the project was carried out by a LAC
Financial Management Specialist (FMS). The FMS concluded that the PIU needs
to be strengthened. An action plan was drawn up and it was agreed to hire
two financial management experts for the PIU. The PIU will be responsible
for consolidating project accounts and information, budgeting, preparing
financial reports, establishing internal controls and contracting independent
audits for the project. A new accounting, planning, monitoring and
supervision software, compatible with LACI,   will be purchased.     A year
after project initiation and after installing an integrated project financial
system , the PIU shall prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly project
management reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring
indicators of activities carried out during each quarter. The formats and
basis to produce those reports would be in accordance with the Bank Financial
Management Manual and LACI procedures. Participating water utilities would
follow accounting procedures and financial reporting outlined in the POM.
Twice a year, (March 31 and September 31) summary progress reports of the
- 10 -



operational/financial performance of the utility, and the implementation of
the subprojects, would be presented by each participating utility to the PIU
according to guidelines and formats included in the POM. An independent
accounting firm acceptable to the Bank will be hired annually, in accordance
with terms of reference approved by the Bank, to carry out the covenanted
yearly audits of the special accounts, all project accounts, and of the SOEs.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation would be
done by the Bank and by qualified consultants hired by the Bank.
Participating utilities will submit summary reports to the PIU, following
formats included in the POM. The PIU will submit the Bank consolidated
progress reports on the performance of the project at the end of each
semester ending April 30 and October 30. The Bank would carry out at least
two full supervision missions and one partial supervision mission a year.
Counterpart funds: The proposed loan has already received Congressional
approval (aprobacion Comisi6n Interparlamentaria) and Executive Branch
approval through a CONPES document. Nevertheless, both approvals authorize
the use of loan proceeds only for works and activities implemented in the
Caribbean region. When DNP first requested Bank support, the request
referred only to the Caribbean region. Bank management responded that it
agrees to initiate project preparation on condition that it would be a
national project and an APL, and accepted that the first phase wpold focus on
the Caribbean region, but insisted that the project provide assistance also
to the rest of the country. Given these constraints, the Bank project team
and the government team (i.e., representatives of DNP and MED) reached a
compromise which responds to the requirements of both the government and the
Bank. The loan proceeds, in the amount of US$ 40 million, will be used only
to finance works and activities (technical assistance, consulting services
project management activities, etc.) implemented in the Caribbean region.
The Government will provide counterpart funds in the amount of US$ 15 million
from its budget, which will be used to finance works and activities in other
regions of the country and the taxes and duties associated with project
activities in all the regions (including the Caribbean). However, the project
concept, principles and conditions will be the same for the Caribbean region
and for the rest of the country, and the same implementation unit will manage
project activities in the entire country. The total amount of project
counterpart funds includes, on top of government's contribution from its
budget, also private sector contributions, as well as some Law 60
contributions, at an estimated amount of US$ 15 million. This brings the
total project counterpart fund to about US$ 30 million.
Retroactive financing: The proposed project is expected to become effective
in August 2001. An estimated US$150,000 will be required to maintain the
services of the PIU from January 1, 2001, until the proposed loan becomes
effective. These services have been financed with the proceeds of Loan 3336-
CO until December 31, 2000, when the loan was closed. In addition, several
medium and small municipalities have recently signed contracts with the
private sector, and the government has committed to provide them with
financial support. If these utilities under private sector management prove
to be eligible to participate in the project, retroactive financing for all
or part of the subsidies provided by the government may be required. The
total amount of retroactive financing would not exceed 10% of the loan
amount, i. e., US$ 4 million and it would be used to finance works and
services which have been executed within a period not exceeding 12 months
- 11 -



prior to loan signing, and whose contracting has been carried out in
accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.
7. Sustainability
The main factors that support the sustainability of the project are:
Institutional reform supported by the project promotes incorporation of the
private sector in the management and operation of the utilities. PSP is
considered the key instrument in ensuring project sustainability.
Participating municipalities will have to complete the PSP process prior to
obtaining access to project financing, so the institutional reform will be
implemented up-front.
Selection of the private operators will be achieved through transparent
competition for the market, on the basis of one clearly defined economic
criterion.
In medium size municipalities the project will finance utilities with a 20-30
year operating and planning horizon and a well-defined and realistic
investment plan which would be formulated by the operators, with designs
having also been prepared by them.
In small municipalities, the works will be carried out by the operators, who
will have the incentives to construct them to the highest quality standard
possible, since they themselves will have to operate the installations for
the duration of the operation contracts.
The tariff level at the time of the award of each operation contract will be
agreed upon with the mayor and will be communicated to the community prior to
the to the PSP process.
A proactive strategy and a credible mechanism to address the issue of
expanding services to the poor will be implemented.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Since 1975, the Bank has made 13 loans totaling approximately US$707 million
for water supply and sewerage development in Colombia. The Bank's overall
experience in Colombia's water and sanitation sector has been mixed, with
satisfactory achievement of physical objectives but inadequate progress
towards the institutional and financial performance goals set at appraisal.
The main lessons that emerge are summarized below.
Successful performance of utilities with PSP. Experience with privatized
water utilities in Colombia is encouraging (see Annex 17). There is also
positive experience with PSP in water utilities in other countries in Latin
America such as Chile, Argentina and Bolivia (see Annex 18, and in other
parts of the world. On the basis of this experience, a commitment of each
participating municipality to sector reform based on incorporating the
private sector in the management of its utility is a fundamental aspect of
project design.
Front-loading institutional reform. The most important lesson is that key
institutional reforms should be front-loaded. This is reflected in the design
of the present project. PSP is a condition for participating in the project
and each utility will have to sign an operation contract with a private
operator in order to access the loan funds.
Safeguards against political interference. Past and present Bank experience
in Colombia show a consistent pattern of political interference in the WSS
sector. Consequently, there is an overriding need to protect the privately
operated utilities in participating municipalities against political
- 12 -



interference from future local government authorities. To this end, the
agreements governing the transfer of government funds to the participating
utilities, which will be signed between the MED and each municipality, will
include the obligation of the municipal authorities to maintain private
sector participation in the provision of the water and sewerage services in
accordance with the signed contract. Violation of this condition will result
in withdrawal of government financing. The agreement of financial support
will be in effect also after the loan closing date. Even if a municipality
violates the mentioned condition after the closing date, the government will
still have the power and means to protect the operator, if he is mistreated
by future mayors.
Need for Adequate Tariffs and subsidies. Past experience shows a need to
restructure tariff systems and to improve public awareness on the true cost
of water and sewerage services, while targeting social subsidies in such a
manner that they directly benefit the poor. An important principle in
preparing the PSP processes under the proposed project consists, therefore,
of reaching an up-front agreement with each mayor regarding the tariff level
in his municipality, ensuring that it will cover operational and maintenance
costs as well as part of the investment costs. Also, the subsidy policy will
directly benefit the poor and only the poor.
Need for utilizing appropriate design standards. On a technical level, past
Bank projects in the sector have often fallen victim to chronic
overestimation of water demand and frequent implementation delays, which, in
an inflationary environment, have resulted in cost overruns for most of the
projects. The focus on careful design through a strategy of minimum cost that
is protective of the environment, and with a private operator in charge of
design, will minimize the risk of over-design in the proposed project.
Community consultation. Recent experience in the Philippines with a similar
project highlights the importance of community acceptance of tariffs during
the project preparation process. In this project, it was required that 60- of
households agree to the proposed tariff. Community consultation also helps
filter out investments for which there is not adequate demand.
Notwithstanding these benefits, it is considered that for the proposed
project in medium size cities, it would be impractical to seek agreement from
such a high percentage of the population. However, community consultation
would be carried out in small municipalities, but during project
implementation rather than as an eligibility condition, since the willingness
to pay is related to service improvement which occurs gradually.
Experience gained with structuring PSP processes during project preparation.
During project preparation, several PSP processes were completed both for
medium size cities and for small municipalities. The lessons learned are
summarized below.
Providing Flexibility to add and drop municipalities . This is required since
political commitment of mayors may change during implementation.
Allocating adequate time for rebidding. Each municipality is different with
its own peculiarities, so that a high level of flexibility must be maintained
to reach a successful conclusion to the bidding process. Because of the high
risks involved, flexible design has also to be accompanied by allocating
adequate time for re-bidding in order to provide the appropriate incentives
- 13 -



to attract bidders.
Using a single consultant for structuring a PSP process. Experience has shown
that it is preferable to award just one consulting contract for preparing a
PSP process, which will include the responsibility for all the activities
involved, rather than devidimg the preparation activities between two
contracts: (i) preparing the program of works and investments; and (ii)
preparing all the rest (financial projections, legal aspect, bidding
document). Also, because of the complexity of the processes, consulting firms
do not have the capacity to prepare more than 2-3 processes for medium size
cities simultaneously. Hence, it is important to clearly define the
distribution of responsibilities between the PIU and the consulting firms in
a manner that would improve efficiency and productivity.
The PIU should carry out the "Socialization" processes. The PIU needs to be
the main actor in the "socialization" of the PSP process in each
municipality; this responsibility cannot be delegated to consultants.
The need to use model bidding documents and standard financial models. In
order to ensure quality and standardized processes, it is advisable to
request all consulting firms to use a standard financial model for the
analysis of the new private sector managed utilities and to use model bidding
documents and a PSP contract for preparing the transactions.
Low capacity in small municipalities to contribute to investments.
Contributions to investments in small municipalities are low. In better off
municipalities they can be as high as 20%, whereas in municipalities with a
high portion of low- income inhabitants it is much less. The government,
therefore, needs to continue to be a fundamental stakeholder in financing the
water and sanitation sector in small municipalities.
Providing continuous support to newly privatized utilities. The signing of a
PSP contract is only the start of a complex transaction process that requires
several years to consolidate. The government, therefore, needs to provide
continuous support to the privatized utilities in technical, financial and
political aspects.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The project will support private sector participation in the provision of
water and sanitation services to small and medium sized municipalities. The
investment components of the project will involve mainly rehabilitation and
improvement of existing water and sanitation infrastructure and extension of
water and sewerage network . As such, no major environmental impacts are
envisioned. Most impacts will be associated to construction nuisances in
populated areas. The rehabilitation of existing systems will not entail
resettlement of population. The PIU will screen each subproject and will
ensure that it does not include any resettlement, i.e., if it will identify
any intent of resettlement it will work with the corresponding subproject
implementation unit to generate an alternative solution which does not
include resettlement.
An environmental assessment of the water and sanitation sector (SEA) which
was carried out during project preparation identified key legal and
- 14 -



institutional issues related to environmental management in the sector.
Colombia has severe environmental pollution problems. These problems have
been exacerbated by intense urbanization rates and industrialization,
combined with still an inadequate environmental regulatory framework and a
long-standing backlog in sanitary and waste treatment infrastructure. Only
about 5% of collected sewage receives any kind of treatment, well below the
regional levels. Fragmentation of institutional responsibilities and lack of
coordination have led to an uneven and often confusing regulatory and
institutional framework for environmental management as it pertains to the
water and sanitation sector. Regional environmental institutions
(Corporaciones Regionales), with which the municipalities benefiting from the
project will have to deal, are weak (with a few exceptions). Environmental
licensing processes for private operators may become cumbersome and the
capacity to monitor environmental conditions at the regional level is almost
non-existent.
Environmental regulations governing the water and sanitation sector in
Colombia are weak and often overlapping among national and local governments
and different sectoral ministries. Effluent discharges are based on effluent
standards and treatment levels that do not allow for cost effective solutions
even if the existing law hints that proper consideration be given to receptor
body assimilation capacity. Non-domestic discharges to sewerage networks lack
a proper regulatory framework and definition of institutional
responsibilities for their management and control.
The Sectoral Environmental Assessment proposes an action plan, to be financed
by the project, that will: (i) strengthen the legal and institutional
frameworks through revision of existing laws and regulations and
redistribution of tasks among responsible institutions; (ii) strengthen the
capacity of the regulatory and enforcement agencies, clarifying roles,
responsibilities and budget requirements; (iii) prepare environmental
guidelines for design and construction of civil works, and for environmental
auditing procedures of existing works; (iv) clarify environmental
requirements for the private sector participant and determining environmental
liabilities; (v) prepare an environmental annex for bidding documents for use
the selection of private operators; and (iv) monitor compliance, ensure
enforcement and proper reporting of environmental issues in the sector.
Specific outputs of the SEA are already available: (i) a detailed set of
environmental specifications and requirements to be included in all bidding
documents and contracts; (ii) a methodology for environmental impact
assessment criteria and procedures for water and sanitation projects; (iii) a
draft of environmental guidelines for the construction of water and sewerage
systems; and (iv) an institutional strengthening program to improve
environmental management capabilities in water and sanitation sector
agencies.
During project preparation, agreements have been reached among the main
stakeholders (Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of the Environment
and DNP) in regard to cooperation during project implementation aimed at
working towards the resolution of the described problems and supporting the
implementation of the proposed project. The cooperation activities will
focus on: (i) implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the
project and assigning responsibilities to stakeholders; (ii) harmonizing the
inconsistencies within the current legislation (mainly between Decrees 1594
and 901); (iii) defining procedures and assigning responsibilities for
- 15 -



issuing environmental licenses for water project; (iv) evaluation of
environmental risk and definition of mitigation mechanisms which would be
included in operation contracts; and (v) involvement of CRA in the regulation
of environmental taxes (tasas retributivas) and definition of mechanisms that
would enable the inclusion of these taxes in the water tariffs. An inter-
institutional committee (the environmental committee) which will include
representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of the
Environment and of other stakeholders will be constituted during project
implementation to work on all the aforementioned issues, build consensus on
environmental aspects, mitigate the risk to the project resulting from the
current legislation and resolve ad-hock problems related to specific
subprojects, in cooperation with the respective regional authority.
The SEA report has been finalized, reviewed by the Bank and subjected to
intensive institutional and public consultation with the participation of the
Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Development, National Department of
Planning, Regional Environmental Agencies, water sector Regulatory agencies,
private operators, academics, professional associations, NGOs and public
defense groups. A national level workshop took place prior to appraisal. The
project will finance an environmental component to support the implementation
of the most critical activities identified in the sectoral action plan
defined in the SEA.
For the PSP processes, environmental requirements, guidelines and targets are
being written into the concession documents. As part of the long-term
strategy for improved environmental management in the water and sanitation
sector in Colombia, the project will support the above-described EMP for the
water and sanitation sector. Environmental management capacity will be
strengthened in key sectoral agencies, especially the Water and Sanitation
Division of the Ministry of Economic Development.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Menahem Libhaber
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 4735327
Fax:   (202) 6761821
Email: mlibhaber@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 16 -



