Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21868 CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
September 27, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 20, 2001)
Currency Unit = Peso ($)
$2342 = US$1.00
$1 million = US$427
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACUACAR               Aguas de Cartagena (The Water and Sewerage Company
of Cartagena)
AAA                   Acueducto, Alcantarillado, Aseo (The Water, Sewerage
and Solid Waste Company of Barranquilla)
BOD                   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAR                   Corporacion Autonoma Regional (Local Environmental
Authority)
CARDIQUE             Corporaci6n Autonoma del Canal del Dique (The
Regional Environmental Authority in Cartagena)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                   Country Development Framework
CONPES                Comisi6n Nacional de Poiftica Econ6mica y Social
(National Comission for Economic and Social Policy)
CRA                   Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua (Water Regulating
Committee)
DAPS                  Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (Water and
Sanitation Directorate)
DNP                   Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n (National Planning
Department)
DDUPRE                Direccion de Desarrollo Urbano y Proyectos Especiales
DTF                   Deposito Termino Fijo (interest rate of a fixed term
deposit)
EIE                   Environmental Impact Evaluation
EIRR                  Economic Rate of Return
EMP                   Environmental Management Plan
FINDETER              Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (a second tier
financial intermediary for regional and local infrastructure
investment established in 1990)
FMS                   Financial Management Specialist
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti
Country Management Unit Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Management Unit Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:                    Menahem Libhaber



FNG                   Fondo Nacional de Garantias (National Guarantees Fund)
ICN                   Ingresos Corrientes de la Nacion (Nation's Current
Income)
ICV                   Indice de Calidad de Vida (Quality of Life Index)
INDEMUN               Indice de Desarrollo Municipal (Municipal Development
Index)
IRR                   Internal Rate of Return
Km                    Kilometer
LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGU                   Local Government Unit
M                     Meter
MCM                   Million Cubic Meters
Mm                    Millimeter
MOE                   Ministry of the Environment
M3/d                  Cubic meters per day
M3/s                  Cubic meters per second
MED                   Ministerio de Desarrollo Economico (Ministry of
Economic Development)
NBI                   Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic
Needs)
NGO                   Non Governmental Organization
NPV                   Net Present Value
PAOI                  Programa Anual de Obras e Inversion (Ainual Program of
Works and Investments)
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PMR                   Project Management Report
POI                   Programa de Obras e Inversion (Program of Works and
Investments)
POM                   Project Operation Manual
PSP                   Private Sector Participation
RPA                   Regional Procurement Adviser
SEA                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SEE                   Strategic Environmental Evaluation
SIAS                  Sistema de Informacion Agua y Saneamiento (Sector
Information System)
SME                   Small and Medium Entrepreneur
SOE                   Statement of Expenditures
SS                    Suspended Solids
SSPD                  Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos Domiciliarios
(Superintendency of Domestic Public Services)
TA                    Technical Assistance
UFW                   Unaccounted For Water
WSS                   Water and Sewerage Sector
WSR                   Water Sector Reform
WTP                   Willingness To Pay






Colombia
Water Sector Reform Assistance Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................1
1. Project development objective ..........................................................1
2. Key performance indicators ..........................................................1
B.  Strategic Context ..........................................................1
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ....................................................1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................6
C.  Project Description  Summary ..........................................................7
1. Project components ..........................................................7
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................ 14
3.  Benefits and target population .........................................................                                      14
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...................................................... 14
D. Project Rationale .........................................................                                                    20
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ........................................ 20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .... 21
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design ....................................... 21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .............................................. 23
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ......................................................... 24
E.  Summary  Project Analyses .........................................................                                           24
1. Economic .........................................................                                                             24
2. Financial .........................................................                                                            25
3. Technical .........................................................                                                            26
4. Institutional .........................................................                                                        27
5.  Environmental assessment .........................................................                                            28
6. Social .........................................................                                                               30
7.  Safeguard Policies .........................................................                                                  32
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks .........................................................                                          33
1.  Sustainability .........................................................                                                      33
2.  Critical risks .........................................................                                                      33
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                                       35
G.  Main  Loan  Conditions .........................................................                                              36
1. Effectiveness conditions .........................................................                                             36



continued                                                                                Page
2. Other ......................................................                            36
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................................................     37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................................................    37
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ......................................................     38
Annex IA.Key Performance Indicators                ........................................... 41
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description              ........................................... 43
Annex  3.   Estimated  Project Costs  ......................................................  56
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                 ....................................... 57
Annex 5. Financial Assessment of Revenue-Earning Project Entities                 . .    68
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .                 .......................................... 89
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .               ............................................ 94
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements              ..................................... 95
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                   .     .        96
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds              ......................................... 101
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule              .        ............................... 102
Annex 8. Documents in Project File               ........................................... 103
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits               ....................................... 106
Annex 10. Country at a Glance               ................................................ 108
Annex 11. Eligibility Criteria for Participating Municipalities   .        ........................ 110
Annex 12. Sectoral Environmental Assessment Summary              .       ........................... 112
Annex 13. Social Assessment Summary                 ......................................... 120
Annex 14. Potential Participating Municipalities ...................................................... 131
Annex 15. Model of Private Sector Participation in Water Companies . ................. 135
in Colombia's Medium Size Cities
Annex 16.The Constructor-Operator Model for Private Sector Participation ............. 144
in the Operation of Water Supply and Sanitation
Systems in Small Municipalities
Annex 17.Private Sector Participation in the Water Sector in Colombia . ................ 153
Annex I8.Private Sector Participation Experience in the Water Sector . ................. 164
in Latin America
Annex 19.Comparison of the Performance of Private and Public Water . ................ 167
Utilities with Respect to Service Expansion to Low-Income Areas
MAP
IBRD 31321



COLOMBIA
WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFW
Date: September 20, 2001                          Team Leader: Menahem Libhaber
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P065937                               Sector(s): WW - Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ I Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 7                          Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first 4 years, 0.75%
thereafter.
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      15.00           0.00          15.00
IBRD                                                          24.00          16.00         40.00
PRIVATE SECTOR AND MUNICIPALITIES                              15.00          0.00          15.00
Total:                                                        54.00          16.00         70.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
The Ministry of Economic Development, Directorate of Potable Water and Basic Sanitation
Address: Calle 28, No. 13A-15, Piso 17, Edificio Bancafe, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Carmina Moreno, Director of Potable Water and Basic Sanitation
Tel: 57-1-2826352           Fax: 57-1-2822329           Email: Cmoreno@sias.gov.co
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual    5.00       11.00      15.00       6.00      3.00
Cumulative    5.00  J    16.00     31.00      37.00      40.00
Project implementation period: November 30, 2001 to December 31, 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
OM8 PADI Ful Rl US) 2






Page 1
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the project are: (i) to support water sector reform by facilitating the
incorporation of the private sector into the management and operation of water utilities participating in
the project for the purpose of creating an enabling environment for improving the efficiency and
sustainability of these utilities, and by providing them with financial support to ensure their viability; (ii)
expand the coverage of water and sewerage services in participating municipalities; and (iii) facilitate the
access of populations in low income areas of participating municipalities to water and sewerage services.
These objectives are expected to be achieved by providing: (i) technical assistance for incorporating
private sector participation in the management and operation of the water and sewerage services in the
utilities of about 3 medium size cities or regional associations of municipalities, with populations of up to
about 300,000 inhabitants, as well as in the utilities of about 25 small municipalities with populations of
up to about 12,000 inhabitants; and (ii) financial support to the utilities which have successfully
incorporated the private sector; and which will be directed at benefiting the poor, as well as ensuring the
financial viability of these utilities.
Project activities will focus mainly on the Caribbean coastal region of Colombia,which consists of the
Departments of Atlantico, Bolivar, Cesar, Cordoba, La Guajira, Sucre, Magdalena and San Andres,
Providencia y Santa Catalina. The focus will be in this region because it suffers from the lowest coverage
rates of water and sewerage in the country, as well as the lowest level of service, and the Govemment' s
policy is to reduce these regional disparities. However, about 15% of project activities will be
implemented in other parts of the country. The project might also provide technical and financial support
to cities which have undertaken earlier reform processes involving private sector participation in the
management of their utilities. The reform principles proposed by the project reflect the policy of the
government and will be applied throughout the entire country, even while using other financing sources.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The main indicator for measuring the success of the program is the progress made in attracting PSP, both
in the medium size cities and in the small municipalities. For those utilities which are successful in
attracting a private operator, eight monitoring indicators will be used to track progress related to the
objectives of the water supply and wastewater sector, which aim to improve efficiency, sustainability and
service-to-all. The selected indicators are those agreed under the CDF, and form a "utility-based" set of
indicators used to measure the operational and financial efficiency of water utilities (which will basically
be the target indicators stipulated in the PSP contracts, i.e., coverage of services, reduction in rationing,
productivity, financial performance etc.). Details on the performance indicators are provided in Annex
IA.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107 CO         Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/6/97
CAS Progress Report Report Number: 19805 Date of CAS Progress Report discussion:
11/18/99
The proposed project will support the CAS objective of Achieving Sustainable Growth, by Improving
Infrastructure Services. Colombia's poor and deteriorating infrastructure has long been identified as a
critical constraint to faster economic growth. The govemment's strategy to improve the quantity and
quality of water supply, sewerage and sewage treatment infrastructure emphasizes increased private
sector participation. The project is consistent with the CAS's emphasis that "The Bank intends to support
rural and small cities water supply at the national level, with a special focus on private sector
participation."



Page 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sectoral Context. In 1986 the Decentralization Law transferred the responsibility for operating and
managing the water and sewerage systems to the municipalities. Decentralization has been a major force
in shaping the water and sanitation sector's structure. Colombia now consists of 1,091 municipalities and
about 1,500 registered water and sanitation service providers, including municipal departments, utilities
(public, private and mixed) and other authorized organizations.
In 1991 a new constitution was installed in Colombia, in which the right of municipalities to provide
water and sanitation services was confirmed, including the power to grant concessions or other forms
of private sector participation in the provision of the water and sewerage services. The constitution
provided the legal framework to introduce more aggressive reforms in the water sector by clearly
separating service provision and policy making, and by allowing private sector participation (PSP) in
the infrastructure sector. Law 142, enacted in 1994, established a legislative and regulatory
framework for the sector that emphasizes efficiency of service provision through the introduction of
competition and the promotion of PSP in the sector.
The Ministry of Economic Development is responsible for the water sector. The responsibilities for
the sector have been assigned to different institutions within the Ministry. The Potable Water and
Sanitation Directorate (DAPS) oversees the water and sanitation sector, formulates sector policies
and plans sector development. The Water Regulatory Commission (CRA) promotes competition
among service providers, controls monopolies, defines tariff setting methodologies based on standard
formulas and on investment plans submitted by the operating companies, and sets service quality and
technical standards to be followed by utilities. In addition, the Superintendency of Domestic Public
Services (SSPD) is responsible for monitoring and supervising the adequacy and efficiency of the
operations, for establishing uniform accounting systems, supervising the administration of subsidies,
and monitoring the general administration of public services companies. Environmental regulation is
handled by Autonomous Regional Corporations (CARs).
Colombia, with a population of about 40 million inhabitants, has made impressive progress in
expansion of water and sanitation services in urban areas over the past decade. Approximately 84%
of the urban population of about 28 million were connected to water supplies in 1997, as compared
to 79%, the average for the LAC region. About 75% were either connected to public sewerage or
had individual septic tanks in 1997. Rural coverage was lower with about 44% of the 11 million
rural population connected to public water supply and only about 25% connected to sewerage
systems. However, the increase in coverage rates masks shortcomings in the quality of service.
Water rationing and intermittent supplies are common in most water supply systems. Only slightly
less than 50 percent of all drinking water is treated and, as a result, the drinking water quality in
many systems is sub-standard. Sufficient pressure in the water supply systems is lacking, adding to
the risk of bacterial contamination. Sewage collection systems do not have sufficient hydraulic
capacity to handle wastewater flows, especially in poor neighborhoods, resulting in overflow
problems. The share of generated wastewater receiving any kind of treatment is about 5%, which is
low for a middle income country such as Colombia.
Private sector involvement in the water sector began in 1995 in Cartagena, with support from the
Bank. Since then, some 15 large and medium size water companies, as well as about 35 smaller ones
have managed to incorporate the private sector through various types of models, mainly mixed
capital, concession and management contracts. The most important examples of PSP processes in
the water sector are in Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Tunja, Monteria, Palmira, Girardot,
Riohacha and in some smaller municipalities. The performance of all these utilities has improved.
Some of them, especially the ones which were first to incorporate the private sector like Cartagena,
Barranquilla and Tunja, are now well run utilities and enjoy a high degree of customer satisfaction.
In spite of a favorable government policy, private sector participation in the water sector is still not
widespread and is far lower than has been expected. The reasons for the slower than expected spread



Page 3
of PSP are twofold: first security problems of the country deter foreign operators and investors;
second, carrying out PSP processes is complex and difficult, and needs government technical
assistance and financial support in order to be successful.
Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Poor Utility Performance. The main reason for poor utility performance is inadequate management
capacity, which is a result of political intervention in management, political nomination of managers
and their frequent replacement for reasons not related to their performance. Poor utility performance
is reflected in the low quality of service provided and in inadequate commercial systems, low billing
and collection, as well as inadequate maintenance.
As noted in B2, coverage rate values do not reflect the real quality of service. A better performance
indicator is the effective water service coverage, which takes into account continuity of service and
water quality, in addition to physical coverage. The effective water service coverage in Colombia,
which reflects coverage of 24 hours per day with water quality that complies with drinking water
standars, is shown below:
The Effective Water Coverage in Colombia as Indicator of Level of Service
(Data for 1997)
Major Cities  I Medium Cities    Small Municipalities    National Average
82%              46%                  27%                  < 50%??
Source: ACODAL, Estado del Sector de Agua y Saneamiento en Colombia, Julio 24 de 1998
These data indicate that (i) utility performance in the country, on average, is less than satisfactory;
(ii) utility performance in medium and small municipalities is deficient; and (iii) there are great
disparities between major cities and the rest of the country.
Large Regional and Urban - Rural Disparities in Service Coverage. It is estimated that 10 million
Colombians (of a total of 40 million) do not have access to piped water and about 15 million lack
access to adequate sanitation systems. The Atlantic Coast (Caribbean region), Orinoquia and
Amazonia regions present the lowest coverage rates for both services. Larger cities tend to have
better coverage indicators (both in quantity and quality) than small cities and rural areas. The rural
population, which accounts for about 30 % of the national total, has the lowest coverage rates, at
44% for piped water and 25% for sewerage.
High Investment Needs. Total investment required for implementing the four year water and
sanitation plan (1998-2002) is US$ 1.9 billion or approximately US$ 475 million per year. These
figures do not provide for any investment in wastewater treatment. In the past, funding of almost
60% of the sector investments has come from Government resources, but given the current economic
situation the Government can no longer continue to provide such a level of support. Consequently,
there is a need for increasing cash generation from utilities and for attracting private sector
investment.
Low private Capital Investments and Credit to the Sector. In spite of expectations, little private
investment has been channeled to the water and sanitation sector (3.4% of total private investments
in recent years). Most lending for the sector is made through FINDETER with little private
participation.
Limited Subsidies to the Poor. Cross subsidies are part of the design of the tariff structure in
Colombia and have proven to be an effective mechanism for income redistribution in large urban
areas. However, as the number of municipalities in which the entire population classified in the



Page 4
lower income strata has grown, the cross subsidy mechanism became less effective. A specific
mechanism, the Solidarity Funds,was proposed to allow a better service to low-income groups while
helping utilities achieve financial sustainability, by providing an additional direct subsidy to the
service provider. However, these funds are supposed to be financed with municipal resources.
Because of budget shortfalls, the municipalities do not have resources and the Solidarity Funds
concept has not been put to practice.
Low Wastewater Treatment Coverage. Only about 5% of the wastewater generated in the country
undergoes any kind of treatment, while the rest is discharged without any treatment, thereby
contaminating a significant part of the natural water resources. Contributions from the central
government for water quality control are normally assigned as a result of difficult negotiations
between regional and central authorities and there is no clear mechanism for financing municipal
wastewater treatment plants.
Weaknesses in the Regulatory System. The regulatory and supervising agencies (CRA and SSPD)
have regulatory monitoring oversight responsibility for over 1500 service providers in the country.
This situation makes the regulatory activity costly and inefficient. Large utilities serving over 6
million inhabitants like Bogota are regulated in the same way as those serving 2,000 inhabitants.
Current regulation is based on tariff setting formulas that were designed to provide incentives for
efficient services, but have not been fully successful in promoting efficiency. Tariff levels are in
most cases still too low due to political considerations that override sector incentives. During
May-June, 2001 several legislative initiatives to reform Law 142/1994 have been presented in the
Congress. The purposes of those initiatives are diverse and range from proposing to instate caps on
tariffs to the elimination of the SSPD. Changes in the regulatory and legal framework do not provide
comfort to potential private investors and constitute an obstacle to the efforts of consolidating the
reform started in 1994. The government, established a high level commission to address the concerns
of the legislature.
Limited Coordination Among Central GovernmentAgencies. There are many institutions in the
sector, some with overlapping functions in certain areas. Under such circumstances, coordination
effort are a must. Utilities frequently complain about the large amount of information requested by
the government, and about the costs associated with generating it.
On the Positive Side the following can be mentioned:
Adequate Sector Policy Framework. The Government of Colombia has always been a pioneer in
adopting correct sector policies in the water sector. The decentralization policy was enacted long
ago, and promotion of PSP is a key sector policy. These are advanced policies which provide
opportunities for improvements in sector performance. The government has also steadily provided
financing to the sector and continues to do so.
Satisfactory Service in the Large Cities. The water and sewerage services in the five large cities
(Bogota, Medellin, Cartagena, Barranquilla, Bucaramanga), which serve a population of about 12
million inhabitants, are good, although not always the most efficient. The exception is Cali, which is
currently undergoing a crisis in the water and sewerage services.
Successful Performance of Utilities with PSP. The experience with the privatized utilities
(Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Tunja, Monteria, Palmira, Girardot, Riohacha and more) is
encouraging. The performance of all of them has greatly improved, customer satisfaction is high and
they provide good examples for resolving the water sector problems. Consequently PSP is emerging
as a methodology which tends to be adopted by mayors who are interested in improving the water
sector performance.



Page 5
Government Strategy
In recent years, the government of Colombia has embarked on a water sector reform program aimed
at incorporating the private sector into the management and operation of public water utilities.
About 50 Colombian municipalities of various sizes have already adopted the private sector
participation (PSP) concept and are managed by private operators. The performance of these utilities
has significantly improved after transferring their management to the private sector (see Annex 17
for details regarding performance before and after PSP in some of the utilities). Experience in
Colombia also shows that, contrary to the common perception which holds that the private sector
serves better the rich and neglects the poor, if PSP processes are adequately structured, utilities
managed by private operators serve low income areas better than the best public utilities in the
country, as demonstrated in Annex 19.
The government's strategy is based on four key policy objectives aimed at improving the sector
performance: (i) strengthening the regulatory framework; (ii) implementing technical assistance
programs; (iii) providing financial support to promote modernization and efficient management as
well as to subsidize the poor; and (iv) rationalizing the institutional framework at the national level
to improve coordination in the sector.
Strengtltening the Regulatory Framework. This policy aims at achieving a stable and transparent
regulatory framework that: (i) takes into account differences in local markets; (ii) makes economic
regulation (CRA's responsibility) and its monitoring and enforcement (SSPD's responsibility)
compatible; (iii) harmonizes efficiency and social objectives; (iv) promotes efficient operation and
investment; (v) encourages investment by private sector; and (vi) allows cost recovery.
Implementing Technical Assistance Programs. This policy objective aims to assist in sector
improvement through technical assistance which will be provided by MED in three main areas: (i)
utility modernization to improve efficiency and service quality, both to public and private utilities of
different sizes, (ii) sector planning, at the sub-national level, to Departmental govemments, and (iii)
improving the sector information system.
Providing Financial Support. This policy objective aime at achieving sector self sustainability by
promoting the concept that financing of sector utilities would be mainly based on income generated
by collection of bills. When required, municipalities could subsidize the tariff of low income
customers or subsidize part of the investments using the revenue transfers of Law 60. When
warranted and when the previous resources are not sufficient, the government will make available to
individual utilities, under strict conditions, additional resources from the national budget to solve
structural problems, generally through PSP.
Rationalizing thte Institutional Framework. This process would allow to:
(i) Strengthening the coordination capacity of MED. Coordination at the national level would be
fostered through the strengthening of the MED.
(ii) Coordination of environmental policies. To achieve a balance between environmental and
public services legislation, the MED and the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) would regulate the
retributive charges in the water sector and fix these charges to cover the costs of improving the
quality of water resources. They would also stipulate the priorities for applying these charges to
different user groups.
(iii) Coordination of actions in rural areas. With the objective of integrating rural policy with water
sector policy, the MED would coordinate actions with other national entities, Departments and
municipalities.



Page 6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project: The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed
project to directly support implementation of the government's sector reform agenda. It would support
several key PSP operations, targeting improvement of efficiency and expansion of water and sanitation
services in two types of utilities: (i) medium-size cities or regional associations of municipalities (with
populations of up to about 300,000 inhabitants); and (ii) small municipalities (with populations of up to
about 12,000 inhabitants).
In doing this, the project will address the following sector issues:
*  Poor utility performance
*  Disparity in service coverage between large cities and between medium and small cities
*  High investment needs
*  Low private capital investments and credit to the sector
*  Subsidies to the poor
Sector strategic choices:
(i) Publicly v. privately managed utilities: The program reflects the strategic choice already made by the
government of Colombia, supported by the Bank, to move from public ownership and management of
water and sanitation services to a model in which management and operation are led by the private sector.
Continued support to public utilities, aimed at improving their performance, was not accepted and PSP
was selected as the preferred institutional strategy because of performance improvement that has been
achieved in utilities which have incorporated the private sector in their management, such as in
Cartagena, Barranquilla and Tunja.
(ii) Focus on small and medium-size utilities: Large utilities have historically received the greatest share
of support from the central government and financial support from the Bank. Through the proposed
project, the Bank will be providing technical assistance and financing investments in small and medium
size utilities that choose to incorporate the private sector in their management. It will focus on a segment
of the sector which suffers from the greatest backlog in investments and which has not received
significant Bank support in the past.
(iii) Promote PSP in small municipalities : Conventional wisdom suggests that it is not feasible to
privatize small enterprises, because the private sector has no interest in utilities which serve less than
300,000 inhabitants. However, experience shows that in Paraguay, and to a smaller extent in Colombia
and in other countries, there are some successful examples of small-size private operators in the water and
sanitation sector, managing utilities without any government support. There is enough evidence to
indicate that in Colombia it would be possible to find small private entrepreneurs interested in operating
water and sanitation services in small municipalities.
(iv) Promote the development of a market of small entrepreneurs to serve as operators of utilities in small
municipalities: The number of small municipalities targeted by the project amounts to about 25, while the
supply of operators which can currently handle these utilities is far smaller than the number required. The
project aims to promote the development of small entrepreneurs in the water and sanitation industry,
targeting small and medium construction companies or associations of such construction companies with
small consulting firms, to become water operators in small municipalities. The idea is that, through
competitive bidding, small and medium size construction companies will compete for the construction
and/or rehabilitation of the systems in small municipalities and the winning bidder would commit to
operate the system for a period of ten years from the date of signing the contract. This type of contract has
been denominated "Constructor- Operator" contract. The MED will provide technical assistance to these
small entrepreneurs for the management of water utilities.



Page 7
(v) Focus on the Atlantic Coast Region (the Caribbean Region): Because of an investment backlog in the
Caribbean region, this region suffers from the lowest coverage of water and sanitation services, as well as
the lowest quality of its utility management. The government has now decided to give investment priority
to the Caribbean region through an infrastructure program, Plan Caribe. The project will support Plan
Caribe in an attempt to reduce the regional disparity in water and sanitation services.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Basic Project Concept
Introduction: The project seeks to support water sector reforms both in medium size cities or
regional utilities ( serving populations of up to about 300,000 inhabitants) and in small municipalities
(populations of up to about 12,000 inhabitants) by facilitating the incorporation of the private sector
in the management and operation of the water and sanitation services in the utilities of participating
cities and municipalities and by providing financial support to these utilities, while ensuring
provision of services to the poor. Based on experience in Colombia, as well as elsewhere in the LAC
region (Annexes 17 and 18) it is assumed that once the private sector gets involved in managing the
utilities, the level of the water and sanitation services will improve, the services will become more
efficient and more reliable, their coverage will expand and the access of poor consumers to these
services will increase.
The project reflects the Government's policy to provide targeted assistance to utilities which choose
to incorporate the private sector in management and operation of the water and sewerage services,
since the PSP approach is believed to be the best way to improve the performance of the water
utilities and the level of service which they provide to the customers. Consequently, the project is
demand driven and will assist municipalities which choose to participate and: (i) agree to private
sector participation in their water utilities; and (ii) reach an agreement with MED regarding a tariff
increase which will elevate the tariffs to a level which, as a minimum, will cover operation,
maintenance and depreciation costs, and as higher than that as socially and politically possible. For
the purposes of the project, PSP is defined as transferring full management and operational
responsibility to the private sector and provision of investments by the private sector in an amount
compatible with the agreed level of tariffs. For the purpose of helping to diminish disparities, the
project will focus on supporting: (i) medium size cities and small municipalities, which suffer from
investment backlog and low level of services; and (ii) municipalities in the Caribbean region, in
which the water and sanitation services are less developed than in other parts of the country. The
aforementioned priorities would result in providing support to population of scarce resources, since
most of the population in the medium size cities and small municipalities of the Caribbean region is
of low income. Lists of the medium size cities and small municipalities in the Caribbean region,
which are potential candidates to participate in the project, are presented in Annex 14.
The preferred option in PSP in the water sector is to reach an agreement on a full concession, under
which the concessionaire commits to provide all the investments required during the contract period.
However, under the conditions in medium size cities and small municipalities in Colombia, it would
be difficult to reach full concession agreements. Most of these cities suffer from significant
infrastructure backlogs and need high investments, while the current tariffs are quite low. It is
estimated that in most medium size cities and certainly in all small municipalities, even with tariffs
increased to a socially acceptable maximum level, it would not be possible to finance all the works
required in the next 10-30 years (the contracts period range) just from tariffs. Consequently, the
private sector, which will be hired to manage a utility, will invest up to a level that can be recovered



Page 8
from tariffs, whereas the rest of the investments would need to be provided by the public sector
(national and/or local government) in the form of subsidies or loans to service users.
Two different mechanisms were developed during project preparation to facilitate the incorporation
of the private sector in: (i) medium size cities or regional associations of municipalities with
populations of up to about 300,000 inhabitants; and (ii) small municipalities with populations of up
to about 12,000 inhabitants. The differentiation result from the fact that, from the private sector's
standpoint, the business is different in the two size ranges of municipalities, and the required type of
operator is different in both, i.e., for medium size cities only an experienced operator with proven
credentials in operating utilities of comparable size can be hired, while for small municipalities
proven experience in operating comparable systems is not required, but rather the capacity to operate
them. The cut off number of 12,000 was selected because it defines reasonably well the limit
between the two types of municipalities and because it coincides with an administrative division in
Colombia. For both types of municipalities, model bidding documents have been developed, which
include the terms of reference, specifications and draft contract. For each municipality, engineering
and financial consultants will be hired to prepare the required investment program (Plan de Obras e
Inversion - POI) and the financial projections of the new privately managed utility, respectively. The
PIU at the Ministry of Economic Development, in cooperation with the municipal authorities, would
then incorporate the investment and financial data in the model bidding document and will produce a
specific set of bidding documents for each participating municipality. Private operators hired under
the project will be required to provide water of a quality which complies with the national drinking
water quality standards.
Medium size cities: The operators for medium size cities must be private companies or joint
ventures which have proven experience in operating similar size water and sewerage systems and are
financially solid enterprises which can mobilize the required funds for investment. The contract for
the medium size cities, which defines the proposed model, is denominated "operation contract". The
investment commitment of the private operator of each city will depend on the level of tariffs agreed
upon with municipal authorities. In one extreme, where the tariff level can support only operation,
maintenance and depreciation, it would be a management contract (operation without investment); in
the other extreme under which the tariffs can support all the investments, it would be a full
concession (operation plus commitment to provide all the required investment). In most cases,
however, it is expected to be an operation contract under which the operator would commit to
provide part of the required investment while the rest will have to come from the public sector, either
the municipality or the government or both. If the maximum tariff level acceptable to the municipal
authorities does not cover the operation and maintenance cost of the utility, the participation of the
city in the project will be rejected, since the utility is financially nonviable and the private sector
cannot operate under such conditions.
The basic principle of the operation contract is that it only commits the operator to provide an
investment compatible with the level permitted by the authorized tariff. The financing of any
additional investment is the responsibility of the public sector, and, under the project, it will be
attempted to provide to participating utilities the amount of support requested in each case by the
private operator. However, funding restrictions might limit the availability of funds for each city, in
which case the public sector would commit to provide an investment at a level which will at least
ensure that the rate of return to the private operator of the entire transaction will be attractive
enough'. This will be done by defining in the bidding documents a cap on the amount which the
public sector would provide. The cap value will be derived from a financial model which will be
prepared for each participating utility prior to initiation of the bidding process for selecting the
private operator, so as to ensure the achievement of an adequate rate of return for the private
1 The value of the rate of return for each case will take into account the specific risks of the municipality in question
and may vary in the range of 12% to 25%.



Page 9
enterprise. The operation contract stipulates the investment program over time (the POI) required to
bring the system to optimal conditions, as proposed by the winning bidder, and including a
commitment of the operator to finance and construct the part of it which corresponds to him
according to his proposal. When public funding is required, its use and allocation will be derived
from the POI. MED and the municipal authorities will reach an agreement with the operator
regarding the works and/or goods of the POI, which be financed by the government subsidy.
The criterion for selection of the winning bidder is simple and transparent: the contract would be
awarded to the bidder who requests from the public sector the lowest capital investment subsidy in
order to complete the works of the POI and bring the system to the optimal state, as well as operate
and maintain the water and sanitation system. No operation subsidies are involved and the
maximum amount that the government is ready to pay (the subsidy cap) will be stipulated in the
bidding documents. The performance indicators targets (metas del contrato) will be stipulated in the
draft contract which forms part of the bidding documents, will be compatible with the subsidy cap,
and will also ensure an adequate service to the poor. Each bidder will submit his own POI, which
may be different from the POI proposed by the engineering consultant, since the POI is essentially a
technical proposal and it is advisable to let the private sector introduce its own ideas and innovations.
Each bidder will provide in his proposal a detailed annual scope of works and related dollar amount
which he commits to carry out each year. The winning bidder will agree that, once he has received
from the government an agreed set of works whose value is equivalent to the amount of subsidy
which he requested, he will reach the target indicators value over time, as stipulated in the contract,
i.e., the operator will commit to attain the target indicators corresponding to the total level of
investments provided (private plus public investments). The yearly work program can be changed in
mutual agreement with the mayor but the operator would have to comply with the total amount of the
annual investment program.
The amount which the public sector has committed to provide will not be made available to the
operator, for his discretional use, but will be rather used to finance part of the infrastructure works
stipulated in the POI, which will be proposed by the operator (i.e., works considered by him as high
priority works) and approved by the municipal authorities and the MED. In this way, the private
operator will not receive a financial contribution from the government, but rather the right to operate
additional infrastructure which is provided by the government as a grant and is owned by the
municipality, and whose value is equivalent, or close, to the amount of the subsidy which he
requested in his proposal. In this manner, the government, in effect, finances additional
infrastructure for the city residents and not the provision of funds to the operators, a concept more
acceptable to the public.
In each city, the works financed by the government will be designed by the private sector managed
utilities and the executing agency of each subproject will be the privatized water utility of the city.
This arrangement will ensure that the infrastructure provided by the government will be totally
satisfactory to the private operator and will meet his requirements. The works and goods financed
with Bank proceeds will be procured through public bidding processes in accordance with the Bank
procurement guidelines. The supervision and control of the PSP contract will be the responsibility of
the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality, which may hire an individual consultant or a consulting
firm, on a full or part time assignment, to carry out that task and determine if the performance targets
are achieved by the operator. The duration of the operation contracts would be in the range of 20-30
years, which is the time required to recover investments in these type of contracts.
If the authorized tariff level is sufficient to cover all the investment program (with no need for
financing support from the public sector), the contract would then be awarded to the bidder who
offers the highest reduction in the authorized tariff (i.e., the lowest tariff). Additional details
regarding the proposed model for medium size cities are presented in Annexes 2 and 15.



Page 10
Recently, the water utilities of several medium size cities in the Caribbean region have been
privatized under various PSP models, utilizing technical assistance provided by the government. The
government has also offered financial support to the privatized utilities but has encountered
difficulties in providing it. It requested, therefore, that these utilities be eligible to access financing
under the proposed project. Such utilities could become eligible to project financing under the
following conditions: (i) the private operator has been elected through a competitive bidding process
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the agreed tariff levels are adequate and coincide with the principles of the
proposed project, or, in case they are inadequate, the operator and the municipal authorities agree to
bring them to adequate levels; (iii) the municipal authorities are ready to contribute matching
financial resources from government transfers or other sources; and (iv) when necessary, the private
operator and the municipal authorities agree to modify the performance indicators stipulated in the
operation contract, add to it indicators for low income areas and incorporate in it other amendments,
as required by MED and the Bank.
During project preparation, PSP processes based on the described model were prepared for several
cities (Cucuta, Maicao, Sincelejo, Corozal, Quibdo, Flandes, Espinal, Duitama, Popayan and others)
as well as for several regional schemes (Acuavalle, composed of 33 municipalities, ERAS composed
of Cerete, Sahagun, Cienaga de Oro, San Carlos and San Pelayo, and ARATT composed of Arjona
Turbaco and Turbana). Three bidding process were initiated, like those in Cucuta, ERAS and
Maicao. One process, in the city of Maicao, was completed successfully and has been awarded to a
private operator. Unfortunately, in the other two, no proposals were submitted. The reasons for that
are: (i) the bidding processes coincided with the end of the term of mayors in Colombia in late 2000,
which hindered the processes by allowing only a short time of about three weeks for submission of
proposals; (ii) security problems in the regions of the two cities; and (iii) the impact of the water
pollution taxes "tasas retributivas" and other environmental contingent liabilities (financial impact of
possible future more stringent environmental norms), which were mentioned by potential private
operators as a reason for finally deciding not to submit a proposal.
Small municipalities: The contract with private operators in small municipalities is denominated
"Constructor-Operator" contract. The concept of incorporating the private sector in the management
of utilities of small municipalities, with populations of up to 12,000 inhabitants, is perhaps the most
significant innovation of the project. Common perception suggests that it is impossible to privatize
small utilities, because the private sector does not have interest in utilities which serve less than
300,000 inhabitants. However, experience has shown that in Colombia (see Annex 17), as well as in
other countries, there are successful small-size private operators in the water and sanitation sector,
managing utilities without any government support. The basic assumption of the
"constructor-operator" concept is that big operators have an interest in managing utilities of large and
medium size cities, while small utilities attract small operators. The concept was developed during
project preparation and was adopted by the government It is the first time that any government in
Latin America supports PSP in a large number of small municipalities with a population of less than
12,000 inhabitants each. The concept of the "constructor-operator" model in small municipalities is
that through competitive bidding small and medium size construction companies, possibly in
association with small consulting firms, will compete for the construction and/or rehabilitation of the
water supply and sewerage systems in a small municipality and the winning bidder will have to
commit to operate the systems for a period of 10-15 years from the date of signing the contract. No
prior experience in operation of water systems is required from the bidders. It is assumed that
construction companies that have the capacity to construct the systems, also have the technical and
management capacity to operate them after minimal training, since the systems are quite small and
simple. The winning bidder will receive training in management of water utilities as well as written
material and management software, from the PIU.
Although it might appear that the bidding process for selecting the Constructor-Operator is similar to
that for selecting a constructor for small works, it is in fact a process for selecting a private operator,



Page 1 1
in which the selection criterion of the winning bidder is the lowest subsidy that is required to
construct, operate and maintain the specified water and sewerage infrastructure in the municipality.
Bidders will estimate the present value of surplus operating revenue and determine how much they
can contribute from future income to finance the works, and how much they request as public sector
(government and municipality) subsidy. The winning bidder will be required to establish a special
purpose company with, separate accounts, to construct and operate the water and sewerage systems
of the municipality.
The Constructor-Operator model is basically a concession tailored for small municipalities, in which
the government finances, in the form of a subsidy, most of the required water and sewerage
infrastructure investment in the participating small municipalities. The requirement for a high level
of government subsidy results from the fact that small municipalities suffer a significant backlog in
infrastructure while the population does not have the capacity to finance this backlog through tariff
increases. The Constructor-Operator model is, in fact, similar to that of the operation model in
medium size cities, with three differences: (i) in small municipalities the operator is also the
constructor, and this was required for the creation of the operators market; (ii) the level of
government subsidy will most probably be greater (in terms of percent of total investment) in small
municipalities; and (iii) the duration of the contracts in small municipalities is 10-15 years while the
duration of the contracts in medium-size cities is 20-30 years. Although initially constructors may
not find such an operation attractive, they might agree to be responsible for system operation and
management because of their interest in the construction portion of the contract. After operating the
system he himself constructed for ten years, the Constructor-Operator will most probably recognize
the benefits of performing as a system operator, i.e., benefiting from a stable, reliable and continuous
source of income, while performing a relatively simple task. It is expected that this will convince the
entrepreneur to remain an operator on a permanent basis. In that manner, through the concept of
constructor-operator, it is expected that the market of private operators for small municipalities will
be created. Additional details regarding the proposed "Constructor-Operator" model for small
municipalities are presented in Annexes 2 and 16.
During project preparation, a pilot PSP processes based on the "Constructor-Operator" model were
prepared in eight small municipalities (Puerto Escondido, Los C6rdobas, Mofiitos, San Bernardo del
Viento, Cumaral, Nataga, Palermo, and Tello). Because of government budget restrictions to finance
the related investments, the bidding processes were carried out for only five municipalities; of these,
two processes have been successfully completed for the municipalities of Cumaral and Nataga and the
respective contracts have been awarded and signed. The others were negatively impacted from the
fact that the bidding processes coincided with the end of the term of mayors in Colombia, in late
2000, which is the reason that no proposals were submitted for the other municipalities.
Destination of Bank Proceeds: The Bank funds will be lent to the government of Colombia, which
will use them mostly as subsidies to finance public investments in water and sanitation infrastructure
in medium size cities and small municipalities. In addition, part of the Bank funds will be used to
finance the technical assistance activities which will be provided to each participating municipality
for incorporating the private sector in the management and operation of the services, as well as for
other technical assistance activities included in the project.
Ensuring the Provision of Services to the Poor: In medium size cities: in order to ensure services in
poor neighborhoods of medium size cities, two sets of pre-established performance targets, varying
over the years, will be stipulated in the operation contracts, one for the entire city and one for the low
income neighborhoods. The operators will commit to achieve both sets of targets, thus ensuring the
provision of services to the poor in the medium size cities. In small Municipalities: the eligibility
criteria will provide a screening mechanism which will ensure that only municipalities with a high
portion of low income population will be able to participate in the project. This will be done through



Page 12
use of the social indicator INDEMUN2 (Indice de Desarrollo Municipal - Municipal Development
Index) which is determined annually by DNP for each municipality. Only municipalities with an
index value of up to 5, which reflects low income municipalities, will be eligible to participate in the
project. This value will ensure that most of the population in the participating small municipalities is
of low income.
Subsidy Policy: The tariffs for each stratum will be structured in such a manner that high income
consumers in strata 4, 5 and 6 will pay their share in the investment program through the tariff and
will not receive any subsidies. As a result, all the investment subsidies financed by the Bank will
benefit only consumers in strata 1,2 and 3, i.e., population residing in low income areas. This
approach is a requirement of Law 142 and also a project objective of supporting the poor.
Eligibility Criteria: Although there are some differences between the eligibility criteria of small
municipalities and medium size cities for participating in the project, the criteria in both cases are
quite similar. The main eligibility criteria are: (i) the water coverage rate in the municipality is lower
than a pre-established value; (ii) the mayor and the municipal council agree to PSP and accept the
proposed PSP model; (iii) the mayor and the municipal council agree to new tariffs at a level which
will ensure coverage of, at least, the operation, maintenance and depreciation costs, and as high as
socially and politically possible; (iv) the mayor and municipal council agree to contribute to the
investment program a certain percent (between 8 to 20%, to be established specifically for each case)
of the Law 60 municipal transfers or other municipal resources; (v) the mayor commits to carry out a
campaign aimed at informing the community about the reform, the PSP model and the tariff
adjustment involved (vi) the investment per capita is capped and cannot exceed a pre-determined
value; and (vii) the proposed works will not include resettlement. Additional details regarding the
eligibility criteria of small municipalities and medium size cities are presented in Annex 11.
Project Components
The proposed project will help to incorporate the private sector in the management and operation of
about 3 water utilities in medium size cities and in about 25 water utilities in small municipalities. It
will also provide financial support for infrastructure investments in the utilities which have been
successful in incorporating the private sector. The main project components are: (i) the provision of
financial support for investments in water utilities of medium size cities and small municipalities; and
(ii) technical assistance for PSP and project management. Additional project components include
sector environmental capacity strengthening and rural water and sanitation policy development. The
project components are summarized in the following table, which includes the estimated cost of each
component and sub-component.
2INDEMUN is a territorial development indicator which reflects in each municipality a set of social indicators
(coverage of education, coverage of public services, health, unsatisfied basic necessities) as well as financial
indicators (tributary and non-tributary income per capita and expenses per capita). The INDEMUN indicator has 8
categories. Category I reflects the least developed municipal level and category 8 the most developed. Category 5
was selected as the cut off category of the indicator in order to be inclusive enough, while on the other hand not to
include in the project municipalities with too high a level of development and too low a level of poverty.



Page 13
Project Components and Estimated Cost
Indicative           Bank-       % of
Component                Sector       Costs    % of   financing    Bank-
______(US$M)   Total   (US$M)   financing
A. Investments in Subprojects in                  61.8    88.3        31.8       79.5
Medium Size Cities and
Small Municipalities
Al. Loan investments in W&S    Urban Water      15.0    21.4        15.0       37.5
works in medium size cities in    Supply
the Caribbean region
A2. Loan investments in W&S   Urban Water        16.8    24.0       16.8        42.0
works in small municipalities in   Supply
the Caribbean region
A3. Government counterpart    Urban Water       15.0    21.4         0.0        0.0
funds for investments in      Supply
medium and small
municipalities in the rest of the
country
A4. Private Sector and Law 60    Urban Water    12.5    17.9         0.0        0.0
investments in medium size    Supply
cities
A5. Private Sector and Law 60    Urban Water     2.5      3.6        0.0        0.0
investments in small          Supply
municipalities
B. Sector Environmental         Environment        0.8      1.1        0.8         2.0
Management Capacity           Adjustment
Strengthening
C. Rural Water and Sanitation   Rural Water        0.9      1.3        0.9        2.2
Policy Development           Supply &
Sanitation
D. Project Management and                          6.5      9.3        6.5        16.3
Training, PSP Technical
Assistance, Studies and
Supervision of Works
Dl. Project Management and    Urban Water        2.5      3.6        2.5        6.3
Training                      Supply
D2. TA for PSP in medium      Urban Water        1.0      1.4        1.0        2.5
size cities and supervision of  Supply
works
D3. TA for PSP in small       Urban Water        3.0      4.3        3.0        7.5
municipalities and supervision  Supply
of works
Total Project Costs                   70.0   100.0       40.0       100.0
Total Financing Required                    70.0   100.0       40.0       100.0
(Note: The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee equal to US$400,000 no later than 60 days after
effectiveness date of the Loan).



Page 14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will support the following reforms:
*  Promotion of private sector participation in the management and operation of medium-size water
utilities.
*  Promotion of private sector participation in the management and operation of water utilities in
small municipalities.
*  Incorporation of a poverty strategy in PSP contracts.
*  Promotion of reform of environmental regulations, especially in regard to effluent discharge
regulations.
*  Development of a policy for increasing water and sanitation coverage in the rural sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits are related to the reform of the water and sanitation sector in Colombia. They include
efficiency gains expected from private sector management of sector operations; increased and more
efficient investments to rehabilitate and expand infrastructure--within the incentives of private sector
decision making--to meet clearly defined operational and service targets; and fiscal gains from
increased tax revenues. Improved operational and investment efficiency translates into: (i) More
reliable water and sanitation services; (ii) The elimination of water rationing and intermittent water
supply during the summer months; (iii) Reduction of wastage of water by establishing a metered-
based tariff regime; (iv) Improved water quality for human consumption to meet international
standards; (v) Reduction of water pollution, within a defined framework of environmental regulations;
(vi) Better services to the poor by the establishment of service and coverage targets in poor areas
within PSP arrangements; and (vii) Better sizing, timing and technology choice of sector investments
through the incentives of private sector rationale. Furthermore, the project's benefits are expected to
extend beyond the direct beneficiaries and the 5-year implementation period. In the medium term, the
project is expected to improve the sector's access to the private capital markets by establishing a track
record for well designed privately operated contracts. The project will also provide credible and
acceptable PSP models which will be tested during the implementation period and which could be
adopted by utilities in other countries. Finally, the project would provide assistance to the
impoverished Caribbean region, which has the lowest service coverage and lowest quality of service,
as well as an average income below the national average, so as to attempt to reduce regional
disparities.
Targeted population: an estimated population of about 700,000, a large portion of which is of low
income (when measured in terms of unsatisfied basic needs-NBI, about 40% of the Caribbean population
is living in poverty and about half of that population is living in misery, see Annex 13), residing in small
municipalities, is expected to benefit from improved water and sanitation services as a result of the
project. Of the eight departments included in the project area (Atlantico, Bolivar, Cesar, Cordoba, La
Guajira, Magdalena, Sucre and San Andres, Providencia y Santa Catalina), all except one (Atlantico) have
a higher incidence of poverty and lower water and sewerage coverage rates than the national averages, as
shown in Annex 13. It is noteworthy that, of all departments in the country, the highest misery levels are
found in Cordoba and Sucre, when measured in terms of unsatisfied basic needs (NBI). When using the
quality of life index (ICV) to measure poverty, again Bolivar, Cordoba, Magdalena and Sucre are, after
Choco (which is a department not located in the Caribbean region), among the poorest departments in the
country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: FY 02-FY07 (5 years)
Borrower and Executing Agencies: The Borrower is the Government of Colombia. The ministry in
charge is the Ministry of Economic Development (MED). The executing agency of the TA



Page 15
component of the project is the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Directorate of Water Supply
and Basic Sanitation (Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico) in the Ministry of Economic
Development.
The executing agency of each investment subproject will be the utility of the municipality, managed
by a private operator. The PIU will control and monitor the performance of the executing agency of
each subproject and will ensure that when using Bank funds, the executing agencies will comply with
the Bank's guidelines.
Project management and coordination: Overall project management and coordination will be
carried out under the guidance of the Director of Water and Basic Sanitation in MED, who will also
be responsible for policy issues and overall coordination with municipal and departmental
governments. The Director will be assisted by the PIU in MED, which will be the implementation and
coordination agency of the project. The PIU will supervise the implementation of subprojects and
manage all the technical assistance activities through a team of consultants financed under the Loan.
This team has already been working in the implementation of component E of Loan 3336-CO, which
supported the preparation of the proposed project, and has gained valuable experience in structuring
PSP processes, in social aspects related to PSP and in Bank procedures. One of the most important
tasks to be carried out by the PIU during project implementation is the "socialization" of the PSP
process in each municipality. First of all, this would entail convincing the mayor to participate in the
project. Secondly, the PIU would assist the Mayor to secure support from other important actors such
as the municipal council, community organizations, the business community and NGOs. Then it
would assist the mayor to carry out public information campaigns and community consultation. A
detailed description of the PIU functions and responsibilities in implementing the project is included
in the Project Operational Manual (POM), which is being prepared with Bank assistance.
Oversight of project management will be provided by an inter-institutional committee created
specifically for this project. This committee, called "Comite Coordinador Interinstitucional DNP-
MDE", is made up of representatives of MED and of two units of the National Department of
Planning (DNP), namely DDUPRE (Direcci6n de Desarrollo Urbano y Programas Regionales
Especiales), which is a unit in charge of the water sector; and the Caribbean Plan Program.
Learning and Feedback Arrangements: The PIU in MED will also serve as a focal point for
exchanging experiences (best practices and lessons learned), training, and an information data- base
for sector reform. To that end, the PIU will do three things. It will organize periodical workshops
with the participating municipalities to exchange experiences. It will also prepare training programs
for small operators and decision makers as well as for community representative groups, and it will
maintain the sector information system which would be available to the public, including potential
investors and lenders.
Legal Agreement: The Loan Agreement will be signed between the Bank and the Government. In
addition, the government will sign contracts with two Assistance Entitities which will assist it in
administrating the Loan funds. One Assistance Entitity will administer the investment funds and the
other wil administer the TA funds. For each subproject, an agreement of financial support, Convenio
de Apoyo Financiero, will be signed by the government, through the MED, and the respective
municipality. This agreement would: (i) describe the works to be financed by the government; (ii)
stipulate the commitment of the municipality to use the Bank procurement guidelines for executing
the works and to employ the selected private operator as the executing agency of the works; (iii)
establish the funding obligations of the municipality (contribution of Law 60 transfers or other
sources); and (v) specify any additional conditions and issues associated with the contribution of
investment funds by the government.



Page 16
Decision flow and processing steps: The project will be demand driven. MED will inform medium
size and small municipalities located in the project area about the project, and interested
municipalities will initiate the contact with MED. The main eligibility criterion for participating in
the project is the agreement of the municipal authorities to PSP. Additional eligibility criteria are
presented in Annex 11 and are included in the POM. Mediun size municipalities in the project area,
which have previously carried out PSP processes in their water utilities (not in the framework of the
project) may be eligible to participate in the project, subject to two conditions. The first condition is
that the hiring process for the private operator and the subsequent contract are found satisfactory to
the Bank. The second condition is that procurement of any goods or works by the municipality should
follow Bank guidelines. In each municipality the process starts with signing a technical assistance
agreement (Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica) between the municipal government and MED. In this
agreement, the municipality expresses interest in participating in the project, it agrees to PSP, and also
agrees to adjust tariffs as well as provide partial financing for investments from Law 60 resources.
The TA activities are somewhat different in medium size and small municipalities, being simplified in
small municipalities. However, in both cases, the TA includes the preparation of a works and
investment plan (Plan de Obras e Inversiones-POI) with service/quality targets, a tariff regime and
bidding documents, including a draft PSP contract. All these are prepared by qualified consultants
hired by the PIU.
Before the bidding process for selecting the private operator is initiated, the PIU conducts a detailed
review of the material prepared by the consultants, especially of the proposed tariffs and subsidy, as
well as of the bidding documents, in order to assess the technical/financial/economic viability of the
proposed subproject. The most important aspects of this review are the proposed tariffs, investment
subsidy and financial projections. This will be done using a financial model agreed upon with the
Bank. Once the PIU has decided on the proposed tariffs and subsidy cap, which will be proposed to
the mayor, it will send the information to the Bank for no objection. After obtaining the Bank's
comments and no objection, negotiations with the municipal authorities will then take place and the
resulting agreement on tariffs and subsidy cap will be sent again to the Bank for no objection. Before
initiating the bidding process, an agreement of financial support (Convenio de Apoyo Financiero) will
be signed between MED and the municipality, as described above. Once a PSP contract is awarded,
the utility becomes eligible for receiving financial support from the national government in the form
of a subsidy, the amount of which will be a result of the bidding process but would not exceed the
agreed cap. During the construction period, the PIU will supervise each subproject, with the
assistance of technical/financial consultants and external auditors, to ensure that the agreed rules and
regulations are complied with. The supervision and control of each PSP contract is the responsibility
of the corresponding municipality, which might hire consultants to provide it with assistance in
evaluating the operator's compliance with the target indicators of the PSP contract.
Procurement: When implementing works financed wholly or partly by Bank funds, the subprojects'
implementation agencies, namely private operators, will adhere to the Bank procurement guidelines.
This means that works and goods will be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (published in January 1995; revised in September
1997 and January 1999). When using their own funds for financing investments which they have
committed to provide, other procurement procedures may be used.
For the technical assistance components, consulting services, either wholly or partly financed by
IBRD, will be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World BankBorrowers" (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). Goods will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits mentioned above. For works implemented in medium size cities,
the executing agency of each investment subproject (i.e., the utility of each municipality, managed by
a private operator) will use Standard Bidding Documents published by the Bank, for works and goods
to be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Works implemented in small



Page 17
municipalities under the Constructor-Operator model, will be procured using model bidding
documents which have been specially prepared and authorized to be used for that purpose, and are the
same bidding documents used for selection of the operator. Standard documents for Requests for
Proposals and consulting services contracts will be used under the technical assistance components of
the project. Detailed project procurement arrangements are given in Annex 6. A procurement
capacity assessment of the PIU has been carried out and the overall procurement risk was assessed as
average. An action plan for strengthening the skills of the PIU has been agreed upon, including hiring
a high level procurement specialist and sending additional procurement staff to Bank procurement
training seminars. The PIU will provide procurement training for each of the individual subproject
executing agencies and will monitor their performance to ensure that they comply with Bank
procurement guidelines.
Flow of funds: Financial management will be the responsibility of the PIU. All Loan funds will be
deposited by the Bank, upon request of the PIU, in a special account in Banco de la Republica.
Investment funds for works and goods in medium size cities and small municipalities under
component A will be withdrawn by the PIU from the special account and deposited in an
Administrator Account. The Administrator, which will be in charge of handling these funds, will be
an Assistance Entity (Entity 1), which is an entity established by an international organization of
countries, of which Colombia is a member, and which has the expertise, facilities and personnel
required to carry out on behalf of the PIU certain activities under the project, such as administrating
funds, contracting services and entering into respective agreements. Advances from the special
account to the Administrator account will be documented within 30 days from the date the special
account is debited. Bank funds will be used only to finance investments in the Caribbean region.
When used to finance works in subprojects of medium size cities, Bank funds will be transferred from
the Administrator account to subsidiary trust accounts managed by local fiduciary agencies. The
funds of each subproject will be handled by one local fiduciary agency which will be hired to manage
the funds of the respective subproject, and which will receive, in addition to the Bank funds also the
input from the corresponding municipality (mainly Law 60 funds). Each local fiduciary agency will
realize payments to constructors and service providers, upon authorization from the PIU. For
payments of taxes and duties, the local fiduciary agencies will use the funds contributed by the
municipalities. The local fiduciary agencies will sign the contracts with constructors and service
providers on behalf of the respective municipalities. When used to finance works in subprojects of
small municipalities, Bank funds will be transferred from the Administrator account of the Assistance
Entity directly to the bank accounts of the respective Constructors-Operators. In such cases, a local
fiduciary agency is not necessary since each subproject has only one works contract.
Technical Assistance funds, which will be used to finance all activities under components B, C and D
and will be fully financed by the Bank, will be transferred by the PIU from the special account to a
designated account for financing technical assistance activities, which will be administered by another
Assistance Entity (Entity 2), which is the same type of entity which will manage the investment
funds. From the designated account managed by Entity 2, payment will be made to consultants and
service providers, according to instructions of the PIU. Entity 2 will sign the consulting contracts on
behalf of the government. MED is reviewing the performance of the Assistance Entities available in
Colombia, and will sign, before the effectiveness date, agreements with the two which will be
selected for the project. MED might decide to sign both agreements with a single Assistance Entity,
which will be in charge of both tasks and open the two accounts (the Administrator account for
investments funds under component A and the Designated account for TA funds under components B,
C and D). The costs associated with the agreements of hiring these entities are not eligible for Bank
financing. Nevertheless, the Entities need to be acceptable to the Bank.
Government counterpart funds will be used to finance investments in all parts of the country, mostly
out of the Caribbean region, but they can be used also for investments within that region. The
counterpart funds will be managed directly by MED and will be deposited by the treasury in the



Page 1 8
project account, which is an account in a commercial Bank which will be opened by MED for this
purpose. From this account the funds will flow in an identical fashion to that of the Bank funds, i.e.,
when used to finance works in subprojects of medium size cities, they will be transferred from the
project account to the subsidiary trust accounts in the local fiduciary agencies, and when used to
finance works in subprojects of small municipalities, counterpart funds will be transferred from the
project account directly to the bank accounts of the respective Constructors-Operators.
If, for some reason, the described flow of funds route from the special account to the accounts
managed by the Assistance Entities is interrupted, other routes acceptable to the Bank, such as
reimbursement of the Borrower for eligible payments made for the project and direct payment by the
Bank to service providers, may be used. Direct deposits from the Bank into the Administrator
account and Designated account managed by the Assistance Entities may also be done.
A diagram detailing the flow of funds scheme is presented in Annex 6.
The PIU will be responsible for sending withdrawal applications to the Bank and for reporting on the
use of funds. The PIU will also be responsible for management of the counterpart funds contributed
by the government, and for timely replenishment of the counterpart funds' project account.
Financial management, reporting and auditing: Both the accounting and financial management of
the project will be the responsibility of the PIU. A financial management assessment of the project
was carried out by a LAC Financial Management Specialist (FMS). The FMS concluded that the PIU
needs to be strengthened. An action plan was drawn up and it was agreed to hire two financial
management experts for the PIU. The PIU will be responsible for consolidating project accounts and
information, budgeting, preparing financial reports, establishing internal controls and contracting
independent audits for the project. A new accounting, planning, monitoring and supervision software,
compatible with LACI, will be purchased. A year after project initiation and after installing an
integrated project financial system, the PIU shall prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly project
management reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of activities
carried out during each quarter. The formats and basis to produce those reports would be in
accordance with the Bank Financial Management Manual and LACI procedures. Participating water
utilities would follow accounting procedures and financial reporting outlined in the POM. Twice a
year, (March 31 and September 31) summary progress reports of the operational/financial
performance of the utility, and the implementation of the subprojects, would be presented by each
participating utility to the PIU according to guidelines and formats included in the POM. An
independent accounting firm acceptable to the Bank will be hired annually, in accordance with terms
of reference approved by the Bank, to carry out the covenanted yearly audits of the special accounts,
project account, and of the SOEs.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation would be done by the Bank
and by qualified consultants hired by the Bank. Participating utilities will submit summary reports to
the PIU, following formats included in the POM. The PIU will submit the Bank consolidated progress
reports on the performance of the project at the end of each semester ending April 30 and October 30.
The Bank would carry out at least two full supervision missions and one partial supervision mission a
year.
Project's Operational Manual: The POM is an essential tool for project implementation. It has
been designed to maintain the institutional memory of the project throughout its implementation life.
Therefore it includes all relevant information regarding the project and procedures to guide the PIU
(detailed information on subproject evaluation, reviews and approval, instructions for document
flows, standards for progress reports, procurement and disbursement procedures, operational
agreements between the participating agencies, and a detailed description of the PIU functions). The
POM is currently under preparation and its completion is a condition of Loan Effectiveness.



Page 19
Counterpart funds: The proposed loan has already received Congressional approval (aprobacion
Comisi6n Interparlamentaria) and Executive Branch approval through a CONPES document
(CONPES 3001 de abril 1998, "Autorizaci6n de la Naci6n para contratar creditos externos hasta por
US$ 296.5 millones con destino a completar la financiaci6n de las estrategias para la gente Caribe- Es
Caribe). Nevertheless, both approvals authorize the use of loan proceeds only for works and activities
implemented in the Caribbean region. When DNP first requested Bank support, the request referred
only to the Caribbean region. Bank management responded that it was agreeable to initiate project
preparation on condition that it would be a national project, and an APL, and accepted that the first
phase would focus on the Caribbean region, but insisted that the project provide assistance also to the
rest of the country. Given these constraints, the Bank project team and the government team (i.e.,
representatives of DNP and MED) reached a compromise which responds to the requirements of both
the government and the Bank. The loan proceeds, in the amount of US$ 40 million, will be used only
to finance works and activities implemented in the Caribbean region. The Government will provide
counterpart funds in the amount of US$ 15 million from its budget, which will be used to finance
works and activities in other regions of the country, mainly works under Constructor-Operator
schemes, and to a smaller extent, works in medium size cities. Taxes and duties associated with
project activities will be financed for each subproject from the contributions of the municipalities,
mainly Law 60 transfers. When necessary, taxes could be financed also from counterpart funds.
However, the project concept, principles and conditions will be the same for the Caribbean region and
for the rest of the country, and the same implementation unit will manage project activities in the
entire country. The total amount of project counterpart funds includes, on top of government's
contribution from its budget, also private sector contributions, as well as some Law 60 contributions,
at an estimated amount of US$ 15 million. This brings the total project counterpart fund to about US$
30 million.
Retroactive financing: The proposed project is expected to become effective in November 2001. An
estimated US$150,000 will be required to maintain the services of the PIU from January 1, 2001,
until the proposed loan becomes effective. These services have been financed by the proceeds of
Loan 3336-CO until December 31, 2000, when the loan was closed. The total amount of retroactive
financing would not exceed 10% of the loan amount, i. e., US$ 4 million and it would be used to
finance works and services which have been executed within a period not exceeding 12 months prior
to loan signing, and whose contracting has been carried out in accordance with the Bank procurement
guidelines.



Page 20
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  A conventional investment lending project with institutional strengthening. This approach was
rejected for medium size utilities because experience from the Colombia Water and Sewerage
Sector Project (Loan 2961-CO) demonstrated that this approach was not successful in terms of
institutional development. For small-size utilities, a conventional strengthening of public utilities
was considered, by providing technical assistance aimed at improving performance. However,
this approach has not yielded satisfactory results in larger municipalities and it is doubtful that it
will work better for smaller utilities. On the other hand, there is evidence that small private
operators entering the sector have been successful in some Colombian regions as well as in other
countries, such as Paraguay.
*  A technical assistance project. Limit Bank activity to providing intellectual leadership and
financing consultants to prepare PSP transactions. This alternative was discarded since the
government recognized that even in concessions for major urban areas, non-recourse financing
was not feasible (even in the case of Buenos Aires, Argentina). It is also not realistic to expect
that, in medium size and small utilities, all the required investments can be financed simply
through tariffs. Consequently public investment would still be needed.
*  A sector reform project. With the requirement of incorporating the private sector in the
management and operation of the water and sewerage utilities, a sector reform project has been
selected as the preferable approach. In the past, the government invested large amounts in
strengthening public utilities without achieving positive results. In contrast, the performance of
several water utilities which have recently incorporated the private sector in their management,
has significantly improved. The govemment therefore considers the PSP alternative, combined
with financing part of the investments through public sector funding, as the best alternative given
the current condition of the sector in Colombia. The participation of the Bank is perceived by the
private sector as a key stabilizing factor.
* An APL program. At first there was an attempt to reach an agreement with the government on an
adaptable lending program as an instrument for the sector reform. This alternative was discarded
because a condition for APL was that a medium and long term strategy, acceptable to the Bank,
which can be implemented under one umbrella, needed to be agreed upon with the government.
An agreement on such strategy could not be reached. Moreover, with the support of another
financing agency, the government has initiated the preparation of programs similar to the one
supported by the project (the government strategy is to diversify financing sources so it did not
favor long term agreements with one lender). Also, uncertainties regarding regulatory and legal
framework reforms, as well as the unstable security conditions in the country are not compatible
with the APL concept.



Page 21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                                  Project                             (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Bank-financed                                                                            Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       2470-CO: Cucuta Water Supply &                 S                  U
Sewerage Project-(completed in 1995)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       2637-CO: Barranquilla Water Supply            HU                 HU
Project-(cancelled in 1991)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       2512-CO: Fourth BogotA Water Supply            S                  S
Project-(completed in 1993)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       2961-CO: Water Supply and Sewerage             S                  S
Sector Project-(completed in 1996)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       3952-CO/3953-CO: Santa Fe I Water              S                  S
Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation
Project (ongoing)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       4345-CO: Urban Infrastructure Services         S                  S
Development Project (ongoing)
Water Supply & Sanitation                       3336-CO: Municipal Development                 S                  S
Project, Component E, Water Utilities
Modernization
Water Supply & Sanitation                       4507-CO: Cartagena Water Supply,               S                  S
Sewerage and Environmental
Management Project (ongoing)
Urban Environment                               3973-CO: Urban Environment Technical           S                  S
Assistance Project (ongoing)
Technical Assistance                             16260-CO, Regulatory Reform Technical          S                  S
Assistance Project
Other development agencies
IDB Financed, Water Supply & Sanitation         Cartagena Sewerage Project
IDB Financed, Private Sector Devdopment         Privatization and Concessions in
Infrastructure
IDB Financed, Technical Assistance              Technical Assistance - PSP Water and
Sanitation in Bucaramanga
IDB Financed, Technical Assistance              Technical Assistance - Support to
Regulation in the Water and Sanitation
Sector
IDB Financed, Water Supply & Sanitation         National Water Plan, US$ 60 million,
under preparation, aimed at supporting all
the regions of the country and expected to
be effective in 2002
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since 1975, the Bank has made 13 loans totaling approximately US$707 million for water supply and
sewerage development in Colombia. The Bank's overall experience in Colombia's water and sanitation
sector has been mixed, with satisfactory achievement of physical objectives but inadequate progress
towards the institutional and financial performance goals set at appraisal. The main lessons that emerge
are summarized below.



Page 22
Successfulperformance of utilities with PSP. Experience with privatized water utilities in Colombia is
encouraging (see Annex 17). There is also positive experience with PSP in water utilities in other
countries in Latin America such as Chile, Argentina and Bolivia (see Annex 18), and in other parts of the
world. On the basis of this experience, a commitment of each participating municipality to sector reform
based on incorporating the private sector in the management of its utility is a fundamental aspect of
project design.
Front-loading institutional reform. The most important lesson is that key institutional reforms should be
front-loaded. This is reflected in the design of the present project. PSP is a condition for participating in
the project and each utility will have to sign an operation contract with a private operator in order to
access the loan funds.
Safeguards against political interference. Past and present Bank experience in Colombia show a
consistent pattern of political interference in the WSS sector. Consequently, there is an overriding need to
protect the privately operated utilities in participating municipalities against political interference from
future local government authorities. To this end, the agreements governing the transfer of government
funds to the participating utilities, which will be signed between the MED and each municipality, will
include the obligation of the municipal authorities to maintain private sector participation in the provision
of the water and sewerage services in accordance with the signed contract. Violation of this condition will
result in withdrawal of government financing. The agreement of financial support will be in effect also
after the loan closing date. Even if a municipality violates the mentioned condition after the closing date,
the government will still have the power and means to protect the operator, if he is mistreated by future
mayors.
Needfor Adequate Tariffs and subsidies. Past experience shows a need to restructure tariff systems and
to improve public awareness on the true cost of water and sewerage services, while targeting social
subsidies in such a manner that they directly benefit the poor. An important principle in preparing the
PSP processes under the proposed project consists, therefore, of reaching an up-front agreement with each
mayor regarding the tariff level in his municipality, ensuring that it will cover operational and
maintenance costs as well as part of the investment costs. Also, the subsidy policy will directly benefit
the poor and only the poor.
Needfor utilizing appropriate design standards. On a technical level, past Bank projects in the sector
have often fallen victim to chronic overestimation of water demand and frequent implementation delays,
which, in an inflationary environment, have resulted in cost overruns for most of the projects. The focus
on careful design through a strategy of minimum cost that is protective of the environment, and with a
private operator in charge of design, will minimize the risk of over-design in the proposed project.
Community consultation. Recent experience in the Philippines with a similar project highlights the
importance of community acceptance of tariffs during the project preparation process. In the Philippines
project, it was required that 60% of households agree to the proposed tariff. Community consultation also
helps filter out investments for which there is not adequate demand. Notwithstanding these benefits, it is
considered that for the proposed project in medium size cities, it would be impractical to seek agreement
from such a high percentage of the population. Community consultation would be carried out in
participating municipalities, but this would be done during project implementation rather than as an
eligibility condition, since the willingness to pay is related to service improvement which occurs
gradually.
Experience gained with structuring PSP processes during project preparation. During project
preparation, several PSP processes were completed both for medium size cities and for small
municipalities. The lessons learned are summarized below.



Page 23
Providing Flexibility to add and drop municipalities . This is required since political commitment of
mayors may change during implementation.
Allocating adequate time for rebidding. Each municipality is different with its own peculiarities, so that a
high level of flexibility must be maintained to reach a successful conclusion to the bidding process.
Because of the high risks involved, flexible design has also to be accompanied by allocating adequate
time for re-bidding in order to provide the appropriate incentives to attract bidders.
Using a single consultantfor structuring a PSP process. Experience has shown that it is preferable to
award just one consulting contract for preparing a PSP process, which will include the responsibility for
all the activities involved, rather than dividing the preparation activities between two contracts: (i)
preparing the program of works and investments; and (ii) preparing all the rest (financial projections,
legal aspect, bidding document). Also, because of the complexity of the processes, consulting firms do
not have the capacity to prepare more than 2-3 processes for medium size cities simultaneously. Hence, it
is important to clearly define the distribution of responsibilities between the PIU and the consulting firms
in a manner that would improve efficiency and productivity.
The PIU should carry out the "Socialization" processes. The PIU needs to be the main actor in the
"socialization" of the PSP process in each municipality; this responsibility cannot be delegated to
consultants.
The need to use model bidding documents and standardfinancial models. In order to ensure quality and
standardized processes, it is advisable to request all consulting firms to use a standard financial model for
the analysis of the new private sector managed utilities and to use model bidding documents and a PSP
contract for preparing the transactions.
Low capacity in small municipalities to contribute to investments. Contributions to investments in small
municipalities are low. In better off municipalities they can be as high as 20%, whereas in municipalities
with a high portion of low- income inhabitants it is much less. The government, therefore, needs to
continue to be a fundamental stakeholder in financing the water and sanitation sector in small
municipalities.
Providing continuous support to newly privatized utilities. The signing of a PSP contract is only the start
of a complex transaction process that requires several years to consolidate. The government, therefore,
needs to provide continuous support to the privatized utilities in technical, financial and political aspects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Central government is fully committed to the sector strategy supported by the project as indicated in
the document "Cambio para Construir la Paz". This document has been approved by Congress, and
outlines the key principles for reform of the water and sanitation sector in Colombia. Commitment to the
project is also reflected by the following:
*  The government amended the Municipal Development Project Loan Agreement (Loan 3336-CO) and
created a new component for water utilities' modemization, reallocating US$ 5 million, which have
been used for the sector policy reform program;
*  The govemment fully adopted the sector reform program which now forms the basis of a national
water sector policy;
*  The government has established a Project Implementation Unit staffed by a high quality multi-
disciplinary team;



Page 24
*  The government has disseminated extensively information regarding its policy, which resulted in
generating an impressive demand by mayors for participating in the project;
*  PSP processes in about 15 medium size cities are underway as part of project preparation. One of
them, in a city located in the Caribbean region, has been awarded and is expected to be signed shortly.
*  PSP processes in a pilot of 8 small municipalities has been carried out during project preparation and
the government will finance from its own resources, in the form of subsidies, the main part of the
investment programs in two municipalities which have managed to sign PSP contracts.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  Brings Bank experience and intellectual leadership with private participation in the water,
sanitation and other sectors, gained in the region and elsewhere in the world.
*  Introduces transparency to the privatization process.
*  Brings techniques and experiences in extending water and sanitation services to the poor on a
large scale.
*  Brings management discipline to the project.
+  Bank financing will act as catalyst for private sector financing.
*  Brings credibility to the project, thereby promoting participation of private operators.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= US$ 11.74 million; ERR= 28.12% (see Annex 4)
[]Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[ ] Other
A cost-benefit analysis which was carried out to determine the economic and financial viability of the
project demonstrates that it is beneficial to the economy as a whole, as well as to each of the stakeholders,
as detailed in Annex 4.
A sample of the following 10 municipalities from all around the country was initially considered to be
representative for the economic analysis: the medium size cities of Maicao, Cucuta, Sincelejo, Corozal,
Quibd6, Flandes and Espinal, the regional system of ERAS, and the constructor-operator schemes of
Cumaral and Nataga. At a later stage, the proposed loan was downsized to its current level and the
project focus shifted to the Caribbean region. However, since a previous analysis on an extended sample
had already been carried out, its results are presented in this PAD even though part of the medium size
municipalities included in it are located out of the Caribbean region.
The results of the cost-benefit analysis of the projects included in the extended sample analyzed show that
90% of the projects were economically feasible and their expected net impact on the economy is
substantially positive. Only one project, in the municipality of Corozal, had a negative economic return.
In this particular case, works could be redesigned to ensure that the investment financed and the
incorporated efficiency gains would result in a desirable economic impact.
The sample considered representative for the project includes 5 municipalities: Maicao and Sincelejo
(medium size cities in the Caribbean region-CR), the regional system of ERAS (CR), and the
municipalities of Cumaral and Nataga, located outside the Caribbean region, but still eligible to
participate in the project because they are small municipalities. The results of the economic analyses of
the utilities of the sample municipalities show that all the respective projects are viable, with EIRR values
in the range 15 to 47%.



Page 25
Once the overall viability of the proposed reform in the sample utilities was verified, a distributive
analysis was carried out to assess the impact of the reform on each of the stakeholders, which include the
government (fiscal impact) and service users. The impact analysis on direct beneficiaries focussed on
assessing the net impact on the poor. Finally, risk and sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the
impact of changes in critical assumptions on the economic viability of the reform in the sample utilities.
Detailed results of these analyses are presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 5.06 million; FRR= 16.0% (see Annex 5)
A financial assessment of a sample of 5 utilities, which would potentially participate in the project, was
carried under assumed conditions of future private operation. The main objective of carrying out the
financial analysis was to develop a methodology which could be used during project implementation to
ensure that only financially feasible transactions will be included in the project and to train the PIU staff
in using that methodology. The specific objectives of the financial assessment of each municipal utility
were to: (i) assess the financial feasibility of each of the proposed PSP contracts included in the sample
municipalities, which have been prepared with the help of privatization consultants; (ii) assess the debt
service capacity of the potential operators and their eligibility for obtaining commercial loans; and (iii)
determine the main risk factors and the sensitivity of the overall feasibility of the operation contracts to
these factors. The cost-benefit analysis described above determined the viability of the project on an
incremental basis (net benefits from reform, i.e., the difference between "with" and "without" reform
scenarios). The financial assessment then determined the viability of the operation contracts structures
from the point of view of the investors and lenders. A privately operated company is financially viable,
when: (i) NPVs of the utility operations (cash flow) and the returns to the shareholders are positive; and
(ii) the main financial indicators (debt service coverage, debt equity ratio, and liquidity ratio) of the
utilities are expected to remain sound throughout the lifetime of the operation contract.
Financial assessment and projections were prepared for a sample of five municipal utilities under assumed
conditions of future private operation. Three of the utilities correspond to the medium size municipalities
of Maicao, Sincelejo and ERAS with populations of between 100,000 and 250,000 inhabitants; while the
other two correspond to the small municipalities, Cumaral and Nataga, with less than 12,000 inhabitants
each. The sample of municipalities on which the financial analysis was carried out is smaller than the
sample used for the economic analysis and it includes only five municipalities out of the 10 included in
economic analysis sample. The reason for the difference in the samples size is that the preparation of the
financial analysis only began after reducing the loan amount and modifying the project focus to include
medium size cities only from the Caribbean region while maintaining the all-country focus for small
municipalities. At that stage, there was no reason to carry out a financial analysis of the medium size
utilities located out of the Caribbean region, so only the utilities of Maicao, Sincelejo, Corozal and ERAS
were maintained in the sample, as well as the small utilities of Cumaral and Nataga. It was decided to
discard the utility of Corozal from the sample since it did not pass the economic analysis threshold, so the
sample was finally established as including the five aforementioned municipalities. This is a reasonable
sample size for the current project magnitude.
The utilities included in the sample were found to be financially viable only when a government
investment subsidy was included in each transaction. Using the tariffs proposed in the draft bidding
documents, the average IRR of the sample, in real terms, was found to be 16% for the enterprise and 17%
for investors. The net benefit is US$ 4.7 million for investors and US$ 5 million for the enterprise. The
total government subsidy required was US$ 15 million.
It was also found that when some adjustment were made in tariffs and in service targets in relation to the
values used by the privatization consultants, the results improved: total profit for investors reaches US 9.3
million with an internal rate of return of 21% in real terms, while the results for the enterprise increased to
US$ 9 million, achieving an IRR of 18% in real terms. The required subsidy decreased to US$ 10



Page 26
million. In the case of Sincelejo, the utility became financially viable even without requiring a
government subsidy.
For small municipalities the required government subsidy is estimated at about 70% of investment cost
which corresponds to a subsidy of about US$ 300 per connection, or about US$ 60 per person served.
For medium size cities the required government subsidy is estimated at about 15% of investment cost
which corresponds to a subsidy of about US$ 100 per connection, or about US$ 20 per person served.
The sensitivity and risk analyses show that the viability of the operation contracts is largely dependent on:
(i) tariff level; (ii) rate of return expected by the investors; (iii) government and municipal subsidies; (iv)
investment costs; and (v) bill collection rates. According to the results of the financial risk analysis, the
variables who have the highest impact on the project's financial results are: (i) government subsidy; and
(ii) investment cost overrun. The risk associated with the availability of subsidy funds will be mitigated
by obtaining, before signing each operation contract, a clear government commitment to provide the
required subsidy, using for that purpose the Bank loan funds. The risk associated with investment cost
overruns should be mitigated by good management control of the private operator.
Fiscal Impact:
The net fiscal impact of the project is yet unknown since it depends on the municipalities participating in
the project, which are unknown up front in a demand driven project. It is estimated that in the poorer
municipalities, which require higher subsidies, the fiscal impact would probably be negative, while in the
better off municipalities it may be positive. The Government gains from: (i) increased income from
income tax paid by private operators; and (ii) increased VAT income due to increase in investment and
materials purchases. However, under the proposed project the government provides capital investment
subsidies to the consumers and it is estimated that in poor municipalities, the value of the collected taxes
is unlikely to be high enough to compensate for the subsidies provided. The net fiscal impact on the
government from the utility reform in the sample of 5 municipalities which were used for the financial
analysis (Maicao, ERAS, Sincelejo, Cumaral and Nataga) is estimated to have a positive value of about
US$3.5 million. However, this positive value is driven by the high positive fiscal impact of Sincelejo,
which is the largest city in the group and the only one with a positive impact (of US$ 7.39 million).
3. Technical:
It is expected that by the end of the project, about a third of the water utilities in medium size cities in the
Caribbean region, (about 20 cities), will have completed PSP transactions. This includes some cities
which have already signed PSP contracts without project support. Likewise, it is expected that about 15
out of the I 10 small municipalities in the Caribbean region, as well as about 10 small municipalities in
other parts of the country, will have incorporated small private entrepreneurs in the management and
operation of their water systems. As a result of the project, the management of the water services for a
significant part of the population in the Caribbean region will be better shielded from political
interference in their operation, and the way will be paved to improving the level of service for this
population through the management expertise of the private sector. It is expected that such a widespread
level of PSP will change the sector characteristics and mode of performance, not only in the Caribbean
region but in the entire country, by encouraging continuation of similar reform activities.
The main portion of the project funds will be used to finance civil works and equipment for improvement
of water supply and sanitation services in about 3 medium size cities and in about 25 small municipalities.
These investments are expected to comprise generally routine upgrades and rehabilitation to the existing
systems. In the medium size cities, the scope of works will be determined by the private operators, as part
of the POIs (programs of works and investments) which they will submit. The detailed designs will also
be prepared by them. The works and goods will be procured by the private operators, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The supervision of works will be carried out by consulting firms which will be hired for
that purpose, while the adherence to the Bank procurement guidelines will be the responsibility of the



Page 27
PIU. In the small municipalities, the works will be designed by consultants hired by the PIU, and will be
carried out by the private operators, "constructors-operators". The supervision of works in small
municipalities will be carried out by consulting firms hired for that purpose.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency of the TA component of the project is the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
the Directorate of Water and Basic Sanitation (Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico) in
the Ministry of Economic Development. The executing agency of each investment subproject will be
the utility of the municipality, managed by a private operator. It is assumed that these private operators
will have the capacity to manage and execute their investment programs. The PIU will control and
monitor the performance of the executing agency of each subproject and will ensure that when using
Bank funds, they comply with the Bank's guidelines. The PIU will also provide appropriate training to
the executing agencies.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project management will be carried out under the guidance of the Director of Water and Basic
Saanitation in MED, who will also be responsible for policy issues and overall coordination of
municipal and departmental governments. The PIU in MED will be the implementation agency of the
project. It will supervise the implementation of subprojects and manage all the technical assistance
activities through a team of about 17 consultants financed under the loan. This team has already been
working on the implementation of component E of Loan 3336-CO. Component E supported the
preparation of the proposed project, and the team has gained valuable experience in structuring PSP
processes, in social aspects related to PSP and in Bank procedures related to procurement,
disbursement, reporting and auditing, all of which will help it manage the project successfully. A
detailed description of the PIU functions will be included in the Project Operational Manual. Being a
unit in a government ministry, the PIU suffers from limitations typical to such units, exacerbated by
frequent changes in the Minister of Economic Development. Changes in its staffing are therefore
likely. In order to minimize the risk of disruption in project management, the Bank will organize
periodic training sessions for the PIU on various aspects of project management, in conjunction with
supervision missions.
Oversight of project management will be provided by an inter-institutional committee, "Comite
Coordinador Interinstitutional DNP-MDE", formed specifically for this project. This committee
comprises representatives from MED and two units of the National Department of Planning (DNP): (i)
DDUPRE; and (ii) the Caribbean Plan Program.
4.3 Procurement issues:
When implementing works financed with Bank funds, the subproject implementation agencies, the private
operators, will adhere to the Bank procurement guidelines. When using financing investments which they
have committed to provide, or while using municipal resources, other procurement procedures may be
used. The PIU will provide procurement training to the executing agencies and will control and monitor
their performance and ensure that they comply with the Bank procurement guidelines. For the technical
assistance components, which will be implemented under the responsibility of the PIU and financed by
the Bank, Bank procurement guidelines will be used for hiring of consultants and for purchasing goods.



Page 28
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management will be the responsibility of the PIU. Administration of funds will be carried out
through a fiduciary agency, which will open two accounts: one 9the special account) for depositing the
loan funds from the Bank and the other (the project account) for depositing the govemment counterpart
funds. The PIU will receive withdrawal requests from the participating executing agencies and will
authorize them as warranted, instructing the fiduciary agency to transfer corresponding amounts to the
service providers of the executing agencies. Each executing agency will report to the PIU on the use of
funds at the subproject level. The PIU will also instruct the fiduciary agency to execute payments to
consultants, goods and service providers, in conjunction with activities under the TA components which
will be managed directly by the PIU. The PIU will be responsible for reporting to the Bank as well as
sending withdrawal applications to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Since most investments financed by the project will be used for rehabilitation of existing water systems,
the project will not have any significant negative environmental impacts. Moreover, positive
environmental and social impacts are envisioned as water service level, coverage and quality
improvements in participating municipalities. The project, however, will ensure proper environmental
screening and enforcement measures to guarantee that all investments pay appropriate attention to
environmental issues and comply with existing environmental norms and procedures in the country.
Water and sewerage rehabilitation projects will not entail any resettlement of population, and specific
eligibility criteria for municipalities will establish that projects entailing resettlement will not be accepted.
An environmental assessment of the water and sanitation sector (SEA) carried out during project
preparation, identified key legal and institutional issues related to environmental management in the
sector. Colombia has severe environmental pollution problems. These problems have been exacerbated by
intense urbanization rates and industrialization, an inadequate environmental regulatory framework and a
long-standing backlog in sanitary and waste treatment infrastructure. Only about 5% of collected sewage
receives any kind of treatment, well below regional levels. Fragmentation of institutional responsibilities
and lack of coordination have led to an uneven and often confusing regulatory and institutional
framework for environmental management as it pertains to the water and sanitation sector. Regional
environmental institutions (Corporaciones Regionales), with which the municipalities benefiting from the
project will have to deal, are weak (with a few exceptions). Environmental licensing processes for private
operators may become cumbersome and the capacity to monitor environmental conditions at the regional
level is almost non-existent.
Environmental regulation of the water and sanitation sector in Colombia is the responsibility of weak
institutions of the national and local governments. The responsibilities of different sectoral ministries and
local entities are often overlapping. Wastewater treatment levels and effluent discharge standards do not
allow for cost-effective solutions even if the existing law hints that proper consideration be given to
receptor body assimilation capacity. Non-domestic discharges to sewerage networks lack a proper
regulatory framework and definition of institutional responsibilities for their management and control.



Page 29
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The environmental assessment proposes an action plan, to be financed by the project, that will: (i)
strengthen the legal and institutional frameworks through revision of existing laws and regulations and
redistribution of tasks among responsible institutions; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the regulatory and
enforcement agencies, clarifying roles, responsibilities and budget requirements and taking into account
economic and financial analysis of environmental regulations; (iii) prepare environmental guidelines for
design and construction of civil works and for environmental auditing procedures of existing works; (iv)
clarify environmental requirements for the private operators and determine environmental liabilities; (v)
prepare an environmental annex for bidding documents for use in the selection of private operators; and
(vi) monitor compliance, ensure enforcement and proper reporting of environmental issues in the sector.
Specific outputs of the SEA are already available, including: (i) a detailed set of environmental
specifications and requirements to be included in all bidding documents and contracts; (ii) a methodology
for environmental impact assessment criteria and procedures for water and sanitation projects; (iii) draft
environmental guidelines for the construction of water and sewerage systems; and (iv) an institutional
strengthening program to improve environmental management capabilities in water and sanitation sector
agencies.
During project preparation, agreements have been reached among the main stakeholders (Ministry of
Economic Development, Ministry of the Environment and DNP) in regard to cooperation during project
implementation aimed at working towards the resolution of the described problems and supporting the
implementation of the proposed project. The cooperation activities will focus on: (i) implementation of
the Environmental Management Plan of the project; (ii) harmonizing the inconsistencies within the
current legislation (mainly between Decrees 1594 and 901); (iii) improving procedures (including
institutional responsibilities) for issuing environmental licenses for water projects; (iv) evaluation of
environmental risk and identification of mitigation mechanisms which would be included in operation
contracts; and (v) involving the CRA in effort to establish mechanisms that would enable the inclusion
the tasas retributivas in the water tariffs. An inter-institutional task force (the environmental task force),
which will include representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the
Environment, will be constituted before project effectiveness to work on all the mentioned issues, build
consensus on environmental aspects, mitigate the risk to the project resulting from the current legislation
and resolve during project implementation ad-hoc problems related to specific subprojects, in cooperation
with the respective regional environmental authority.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 31, 2000
The SEA report has been finalized and reviewed by the Bank. After consultation with relevant
stakeholders, a final draft has been sent to the Bank before appraisal.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The SEA has been subjected to intensive institutional and public consultation with the participation of the
Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Development, National Department of Planning, Regional
Environmental Agencies, water sector Regulatory agencies, private operators, academics, professional
associations, NGOs and public defense groups. A national level workshop took place prior to appraisal.
The project will finance an environmental component to support the implementation of the most critical
activities identified in the sectoral action plan defined in the SEA.



Page 30
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
For the PSP processes, environmental requirements, guidelines and targets are being written into the
operation contracts. As part of the long-term strategy for improved environmental management in the
water and sanitation sector in Colombia, the project will support the EMP for the water and sanitation
sector described above. Environmental management capacity will be strengthened in key sectoral
agencies, especially the Water and Sanitation Division of the Ministry of Economic Development, so as
to improve its capacity to supervise subprojects.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A Social Assessment study was carried out to analyze the key social issues of the project and guide
the design of mitigation measures of negative impacts. The key social issues relevant to project
objectives include: (i) socio-economic burden of water cost before and after project; (ii) consensus
building and community participation strategy; and (iii) labor force reduction and measures for
mitigation of its impact. The expected social development outcome of the project is to achieve at
least 80% of household water connections in low income areas (defined as connections for strata 1, 2
and 3) in each participating municipality.
The social assessments study was carried out on a sample of six municipalities: the five used in the
financial analysis plus the municipality of Quibdo, which was considered to be of interest because it
is one of the poorest in the country. A summary of the social assessment study is presented in Annex
13.
The project targets the Caribbean region where about 40% of the population is below the poverty line
and about half of this poor population lives in conditions of misery. The level of water and sanitation
services in medium size cities and small municipalities, which are potential participants in the project
is currently quite low. Nominal average water coverage in the project area is estimated at about 75%
for water and about 50% for sewerage. However, the effective water coverage, taking into account
continuity of supply and water quality, is only about 45% in medium cities and less than 30% in
small municipalities. Also, service delivery is focused on providing water to high income areas. The
poor and unreliable water and sanitation services, especially in low income areas, have significant
negative social implications.
The project will have a positive impact on improving the living conditions of the population in the
participating municipalities, and especially of those residing in low income areas, by expanding the
coverage of water and sewerage services, improving water quality and incrementing service continuity.
Considering the project targets with respect to improving the coverage and the level of services, as well as
the subsidy policy applied under the project, it is expected that its impact on household expenses on water
will vary, depending on the pre-project level of services as follows:
(i) if the current service is extremely poor and forces households to buy water from alternative
suppliers, it is expected that the social impact of the project will be remarkably positive for all the
socio-economic strata; water consumption will increase and the expenses on purchase of water will
decrease (by as much as 13% in stratum I in Maicao);
(ii) if the current service already reaches a reasonable coverage rate and quality, the project's social
impacts are also expected to be positive. However, it would provide different benefits to different
socio-economic strata: the poor, who in general receive services of lower quality, will benefit from
improved services, while the wealthier will continue to receive good services. Under this scenario,
the consumers in all socio-economic strata will spend more on the purchase of water, however, the



Page 31
increase in the expenses on water purchase will not be higher than 5.1% (stratum 2 ERAS) and
smaller in the other municipalities. This level of increase in expenses will not have a significant
effect on the households socio-economic conditions.
(iii) For consumers in all the socio-economic strata, in both scenarios the monthly expenses on purchase
of water after the project (i.e., the monthly water bills) will not exceed, on average, 8% of monthly
household income and in most cases it will be lower than that (in the range of 4 to 8%).
The project aims at supporting 2-3 medium size water utilities and about 25 small municipalities. The
estimated total number of employees in the medium size utilities would be between 300 to 500, while the
total number of employees in the small municipalities is estimated at 100-150. In the worst case scenario,
the number of employees in the medium size utilities would be reduced by half under private operation,
whereas in the small municipalities it is not expected to be reduced. The labor issues associated with the
project are spread over a large area. Through the project, significant funds will be invested in each
municipality, of which about 35% will be directed to creation of new jobs. Most of the remaining 65%
will be applied to material, mainly of local origin, which contributes to the local economy. Several
mitigation measures will be incorporated into the project to ease these labor problems. These measures
include voluntary separation programs and retrenchment training and activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Activities to promote community participation will be undertaken by a multidisciplinary team (engineers,
PSP and social specialists), which forms part of the PIU. This team will be responsible for participation,
taking advantage of the lessons learned from the pilot project implemented during preparation, as well as
of the experience of private operators in Colombia.
The form of stakeholder participation is different in small municipalities and in medium size cities. It
also depends on the project phase and is different in the first phase of PSP preparation and in the second
phase in which the services are operated by the private sector.
In medium size cities stakeholder participation will involve representatives from the public and private
sector, including municipal authorities, municipal council, commerce and industry associations, engineers
associations, environmental authorities and licensing entities, NGOs, community organizations, press and
media, etc. The local community as a whole will be informed about the reform through a media campaign
(press, radio, TV).
In small municipalities, stakeholder participation will directly involve the residents, through their
community organizations, neighborhood representatives, user entities, local leaders, religious leaders,
etc., on top of all other relevant public or civil society organization existing at the municipal level. To
promote participation of small municipalities in the project, as well as community acceptance, it was
considered advisable for the PIU to associate with a strategic partner which would support the
"socialization" process. The Regional Autonomous Corporations (CRAs), which are the regional
environmental authorities, could serve as strategic partners, since they share the common goal of
improving sanitation services and safe wastewater disposal.
During the first phase of the sector reform, the duration of which might be 6 to 12 months, the
participatory process will be intensive. This phase will successfully conclude when the proposed reform
obtains a favorable public opinion. Without such support, mayors will be reluctant to proceed with the
reform. During the second phase, namely the phase of operation and management of the systems by the
private sector, public participation will take the form of creation and operation of the "veedurias
populares". These "veedurias populares" are public committees whose task is to act as independent public
reviewers of the performance of the private operators, and to provide information to the public, as a
means of ensuring utility accountability to consumers.



Page 32
Finally, after a detailed analysis it was decided not to seek an up front formal commitrnent from a
significant portion of the community in each municipality regarding the acceptance of the increased
tariffs. Achievement of such a commitment in medium size cities is practically impossible, because of the
large number of consumers. It might be possible in small municipalities. However, since the
improvement in service will come gradually, and since the willingness to pay is related to the service
improvement, the up front community approval approach was not considered advisable.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The participatory and consultation program will involve NGOs and civil society organizations as part
of the strategy of strengthening community adherence to the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Provision of services to the poor will form part of the contracts with the private sector. The use of Bank
funds to subsidize the poor will form part of the Loan Agreement.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The percentage of households in low-income areas connected to the water network, which is the
performance indicator for social development outcome, will be stipulated in the PSP contract of each
participating municipality and will be monitored by the municipal authorities as part of the PSP contract
control, and also by the PIU.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP                        YES
4.01)
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                           No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                            No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                           No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                     No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                      No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50,                    No
GP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP                       No
7.60)
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Local screening studies undertaken for the environmental analysis certify that the nature of required
investments for water and sanitation services improvement, which include existing infrastructure
rehabilitation and extension, should not entail population displacement. Eligibility criteria for
subproject financing include the screening for population displacement. In case a specific subproject
requires population displacement, it would not be eligible for participating in the project.



Page 33
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main factors that support the sustainability of the project are:
*  Institutional reform supported by the project promotes incorporation of the private sector in the
management and operation of the utilities. PSP is considered the key instrument in ensuring
project sustainability.
*  Participating municipalities will have to complete the PSP process prior to obtaining access to
project financing, so the institutional reform will be implemented up-front.
*  Selection of the private operators will be achieved through transparent competition for the
market, on the basis of one clearly defined economic criterion.
+  In medium size municipalities the project will finance utilities with a 20-30 year operating and
planning horizon and a well-defined and realistic investment plan which would be formulated
by the operators, with designs having also been prepared by them.
*  In small municipalities, the works will be carried out by the operators, who will have the
incentives to construct them to the highest quality standard possible, since they themselves will
have to operate the installations for the duration of the operation contracts.
*  The tariff level at the time of the award of each operation contract will be agreed upon with the
mayor and will be communicated to the community prior to the PSP process.
i  A proactive strategy and a credible mechanism to address the issue of expanding services to the
poor will be implemented.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Objective to Goal
Interest from local and international operators in   S          Flexible design of the program to adjust to the pace
the W&S sector in Colombia declines.                             of private operators interest, allocating time and
funds for rebidding.
Government has no capacity to ensure sector         M           Through sector dialogue, Bank management will
policies are maintained during an extended period.              try to convince the government to maintain the right
policies. Continuity of policies depends also on
local governments and their multiplicity provides
The newly proposed regulatory framework (which       S           safegard against complete change of policies.
is planned to be innovative and based on                        Hiring of local private operators, which is a target
deregulation of all system components except                     supported by the project, contributes to continuity.
water supply and sewage networks) does not                       Successful performance of the private operators is
provide credibility and deters private operators.               the most significant factor in ensuring continuity in
policy.
The Bank is working with the CRA and provides
TA, under another project (Regulatory Reform
Technical Assistance Project, 1 6260-CO). in an
effort to help the CRA come up with a credible
regulatory framework. A Bank supported
workshop was held to review the implications of
the new framework and support the CRA in taking
responsible decisions. Utilization of independent
public disclosure of service performance will be
practiced as a means of ensuring CRA's and utility
accountability to consumers.
From Outputs to Objective



Page 34
Risk                        Risk Ratinq               Risk Mitigation Measure
Support to PSP from future local governments and      S           Carrying out adequate promotion of the reform
community is not provided.                                        prior to PSP, and an information campaign, social
and community participation and consultation
activities. Applying realistic initial assumptions and
moderate expectations.
Inconsistency in environmental legislation and        M           It is expected that the activities under project
weakness of environmental institutions have                       component B (Strengthening Sector Environmental
negative impact on activities and financial                       Management Capacity) will assist in resolving the
situation of participating utilities.                             legislation inconsistency issue and contribute to
relaxation of too stringent environmental
requirements. An inter-institutional environmental
Task Force which will be established under the
project will also work with the respective CARs to
resolve issues of specific PSP processes,
establishing appropriate levels of treatment based
on the uses of the specific receiving body and
considering a waiver of contamination tax or
modification of schedule of payment as warranted.
Utilization of independent public disclosure of the
performance of the environmental authorities will
be practiced as a means of ensuring responsible
performance and accountability.
The legal and regulatory framework established        M           The government established a commission
by Law 142 is changed by Congress.                                composed by the Ministers of Economic
Development, Mines and Energy and
Communications, the Directors of the three
Regulatory Commissions (energy, communications
and water), the "Superintendente de Servicios
Puiblicos" and two Congress members, whose
purpose is to analyze the current situation of the
public services sector and to provide an adequate
response to existing problems which triggered the
legislative initiatives for change, but without
modifying Law 142.
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient political support to PSP from local      S           Matching contribution of central government grants
government.                                                       to construct infrastructure would provide incentives
for local governments to participate in the project
and provide the necessary support to it.
Initial tariffs authorized by local governments are   S           Tariff negotiations will be based on financial
too low.                                                          projections and adequate tariffs will be an
eligibility criterion
Insufficient interest from private operators in       H           Flexible design of the project to adjust to the pace
project supported utility privatizations.                         of private operators interest. Creating the interest
of small operators through the Constructor-
Operator approach. Allocating adequate time for
rebidding.
Delays and corruption in the procurement of PSP       S           Transparency in PSP procurement processes and



Page 35
Risk                         Risk Ratinp              Risk Mitigation Measure
contracts.                                                         contracts awards, which would be based on one
clear, easily defined economic criterion, close
supervision of procurement processes and timely
Bank support.
Frequent management changes in related                 S           The project is consistent with government strategy,
govemment agencies.                                                is expected to enjoy continuity, and be relatively
immune from management changes.
Currency devaluation and interest rates exceed the     S           Macroeconomic stability will have to be maintained
forecasted values and cause cost overruns.                         by the government. In case of cost overruns, the
government will need to provide the additional
required funds to complete the public sector support
obligations. Otherwise, less works financed by the
public sector will be implemented.
Delays in availability of financial resources of the   S           Only financially viable private operators will be
private operators and in provision of counterpart                  eligible for contract award. Agreements with
funds by municipalities.                                           government agencies regarding counterpart funds
and with municipalities regarding Law 60 transfer
contributions will be reached up front and will form
part of the Loan Agreement. Delays in provision of
funds by the private sector and municipalities will
trigger a halt in provision of Bank funds.
Works in the Caribbean region, totally financed by
Government will delay the provision of funds for      H            the Bank, would be financed in tranches. The
works in parts of the country out of the Caribbean                 trigger for financing each tranche will be the
region, which need to be totally financed by                       corresponding financing of a tranche of works out
government resources.                                              of the Caribbean region, financed by the
government.
Risk mitigation out of reach
General security status in the country and in          H
project areas continues to deteriorate, resulting in
deterrence of private operators.
Overall Risk Rating                                   H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The three main following potential controversial aspects were identified: (i) planned increases in tariffs;
(ii) labor force reduction; and (iii) environmental legislation related to the water sector.
Tariff increases: One of the basic concepts of the project is to reach agreements with the mayors of
participating municipalities regarding tariff increases, so as to improve the attractiveness of municipal
utilities to PSP. Tariff increases are always controversial and unpopular. Mitigating measures will be
implemented through public information campaigns, community participation and consultation events,
contact with community representatives, NGOs, municipal councils and politicians to explain and
promote the project concepts and justify the tariff increases.



Page 36
Labor force reduction: One source of inefficiencies in ailing public utilities is a higher than required
number of employees. Private operators will certainly tackle this issue and reduction in the number of
employees of the utilities in the participating municipalities is expected and will be a controversial issue.
This issue, and the related mitigation measures, are discussed in the Social section of the Summary
Project Analysis.
Current environmental legislation related to the water sector: The current environmental legislation
(mainly Decrees 1594 and 901), which sets water quality standards and tasas retributivas for water
contaminant discharges, reflect priorities that need to be harmonized with the water sector policies and
priorities which the project aims to support. The existing inconsistencies in legislation coupled with the
institutional weakness of regional environmental authorities (CARs) who are in charge of law
enforcement, and rigidities in the water sector legislation with respect to the transfer through water tariffs
of pollution costs to consumers, send mixed messages to the water utilities and generate confusion and
resistance to comply with the current legislation. The existing situation thus constitutes an unstable
regulatory environment regarding the environmental legislation and obligations, posing a potential risk to
the proposed privatization program supported by the Water Sector Reform Project.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
e The Project's Operation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been completed.
e PIU maintained fully operational, with an adequate team of experienced professionals, including
a new procurement specialist and two new financial management specialists (a financial
coordinator and a public accountant).
* The Model of Technical Assistance Agreement (between the government and a municipality),
satisfactory to the Bank, has been prepared.
* The Model of Subproject Agreement (between the government and a municipality), satisfactory
to the Bank, has been prepared.
* The Environmental Task Force, comprising representatives of the Ministry of Environment and
the Ministry of Economic Development, has been established.
* A Project Agreement (Project Agreement 1), acceptable to the Bank, in respect of the subprojects
components of the project, has been signed with an Assistance Entity.
 A Project Agreement (Project Agreement 2), acceptable to the Bank, in respect of the Technical
Assistance components the project, has been signed with an Assistance Entity.
* A contract for supply of the software for the accounting and financial system and for the
development of the necessary modules for monitoring project investments and the contracts
signed under the project, has been awarded.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Operational and financial indicators agreed upon with the Bank will be used for monitoring and
evaluation of the performance of the privatized utilities.
* Monitoring and evaluation reports to be furnished to the Bank twice a year in a format agreed
upon with the Bank.
* A mid-term review will be carried out no later than July 31, 2004.
* Maintain the level of liquidity in the special fiduciary account (government counterpart funds) as
required for the execution of every subproject.
* Upgrade and maintain a financial management system compatible with LACI, one year after
effectiveness.



Page 37
H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
_-T-t                                        '  X5S I
Menahem Libhaber                   Danny M. pg                       Olivier L    rcade
Team  Leader                       Sector Man  er/Director           Country Manager/Director



Page 38
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
1. Creation of mechanisms to facilitate 1. No. of utilities with PSP  SIAS (sector information    Macroeconomic
PSP in the provision of urban public                               system)                         stability
services (including water and sewerage)
2. Increase in quality and coverage of
water supply and sanitation services    2. No. of Customers served by
water and sanitation services
3. Achieve sustainable economic
growth by improving infrastructure  3a.- Taxes paid by utilities
services                            (US$fyear)
3b.- Revenues generated
(US$/year)
3c.- Investment level (US$/year)
Project Development Objective:     Outcome / Impact Indicators:   Project reports:                (from Objective to
Goal)
1. Support the water sector reform by:  (in participating utilities)  *  Reports produced by the  *  Continued interest
(a) facilitating the incorporation of the                              privatized utilities and the   of local and
private sector into the management  - coverage rates for water and     PIU                            international
and operation of the water utilities  sewerage                                                        operators in the
participating in the project for the  - coverage rates for water and  *  SIAS (sector information     W&S sector in
purpose of creating an enabling      sewerage in poor                  system)                        Colombia
environment for improving the        neighborhoods
efficiency and sustainability of these    - continuity of service and water                       *  Government
utilities; and                      quality                                                           demonstrates
(b) providing the privatized utilities    - Number of employees per                                   capacity to
with financial support to ensure their   thousand water consumers                                     maintain sector
viability                          - Working ratio                                                    policies during an
extended period
2. Expand the coverage of water and   (See Efficiency, Access,
sewerage services in participating  Sustainability and Service to                                 *  The newly
municipalities                     Poor indicators and their target                                   proposed
values in Annex IA)                                               regulatory
framework (which
is planned to be
innovative and
3. Facilitate the access of the                                                                       based on
population in low income areas of                                                                     deregulation of all
participating municipalities to water                                                                 system
and sewerage services.                                                                                components except
water supply and
sewage networks)
provides credibility
and does not deter
private operators
Output from each Component:         Output Indicators:             Project reports:               (from Outputs to
Objective)
1. PSP incorporated in medium size    1. At least I medium city with  *  Project management Reports  *   Continued support



Page 39
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
cities                             PSP by mid term and at least 2     (PMRs)                        to PSP from future
by closing date                                                  local governments
Supervision missions           and the community
2. PSP incorporated in small       2. At least 5 small municipalities
municipalities                     with PSP by mid term and at                                  *   General security
least 15 by closing date                                         status in the
country and in
project areas will
3a. Water supply infrastructure    3. Access to water and sewerage                                   not deteriorate and
expanded in at least 2 medium size  services provided to at least                                    will not have a
cities                             140,000 additional inhabitants of                                 negative impact on
medium size cities and reliable                                  the participation of
3b. Sewerage infrastructure expanded  service provided to at least                                  the private sector
in at least 2 medium size cities   350,000 inhabitants of medium
size cities                                                  *   Inconsistency in
environmental
4a. Water supply infrastructure    4. Access to water and sewerage                                  legislation and
expanded in at least 15 small      services provided to at least                                     weakness of
municipalities                     60,000 additional inhabitants of                                  environmental
small municipalities and reliable                                institutions do not
4b. Sewerage infrastructure expanded  services provided to at least                                  affect participating
in at least 15 small municipalities  150,000 inhabitants of small                                    utilities
municipalities
The legal and
5. Water and sewerage infrastructure   5a. Water and sewerage services                               regulatory
provided in low income areas       provided to at least 100,000                                     framework
inhabitants of low income                                        established by Law
neighborhoods in medium size                                      142 is not changed
cities                                                            by Congress
5b. Water and sewerage services
provided to at least 40,000
inhabitants of low income
neighborhoods in small
municipalities
6. Environmental studies under TA  6. Set of environmental studies
component carried out and the      reports completed
environmental committee fully active
7. Rural water and sanitation policy    7. Policy document ready and
defined, adequate methods for      approved by the government
increasing water and sewerage
coverage in the rural sector developed
Project Components / Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:              (from Components to
components:                        component)                                                   Outputs)
A. Investments in Subprojects in   US$ 61.8 million              *   PMRs                       *   Strong political
Medium Size Cities and Small                                                                         support provided to
Municipalities                                                   *   Supervision missions            PSP by local
*   Al. Loan Investments in W&S                                                                      government
works in the participating medium                            *   Semestral project progress    *   Adequate initial
size cities in the Caribbean region                              reports                         tariffs authorized
*   A2. Loan Investments in W&S                                                                 I    by local



Page 40
Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
works in the participating small                                                                    governments
municipalities in the Caribbean
region                                                                                         *   Sufficient interest
*   A3. Government counterpart                                                                          of private operators
funds for investments in medium                                                                     in project
and small municipalities in therest                                                                 supported utility
of the country                                                                                      privatizations
*   A4. Private Sector and Law 60
investments in medium size cities                                                              *   Minimum delays
*  A5. Private Sector and Law 60                                                                        and corruption in
investments in small                                                                               the procurement of
municipalities                                                                                     PSP contracts
B. Sector Environmental Management  US$ 0.80 million                                               *   Minimum
Capacity Strengthening                                                                                  management
changes in related
C. Rural Water and Sanitation Policy   US$ 0.9 million                                                 government
Development                                                                                            agencies
* TA for identifying methods for
increasing water and sewerage                                                                 *   Currency
coverage in the rural water sector                                                                 devaluation and
interest rates not
D. Proiect Management and Training,  US$ 6.5 million                                                    exceed the
PSP Technical Assistance. Studies and                                                                   forecasted values
Supervision of Works                                                                                    and do not result in
cost overruns
*  DI. Project Management and
training                                                                                       *   Timely availability
*  D2. TA for PSP in medium size                                                                        of financial
cities                                                                                             resources and
*   D3. TA for PSP in small                                                                             counterpart funds
municipalities                                                                                     from municipalities
and the private
operators
*   Government will
provide counterpart
funds also for
works in other
parts of the country
out of the
Caribbean, which
need to be totally
financed by
government
resources
*   General security
status in the
country and in
project areas will
not deteriorate
See Values of monitoring indicators in Annex 1A



Page 41
Annex 1A: Key Performance Indicators
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators for Medium Size Cities
Indicators                                  Baseline   Minimum Targeted Value Expected for Each Project
Value                      Participating Utility
End of       End of -       End of    Full Impact
Year 2         Year 4        Year 5
Number of                                                                           At least 2     At least 2
PSP Contracts
Signed                                                                                         -
Service to All    Percentage of               <60          >65           >75           >80           >90
households connected
to piped water
Percentage of               <40          >50        -.>60      -     >65           >80
households connected
to public sewerage
Percentage of               <50          >65          >75            >80           >90
household with
continuous supply%4
Percentage of               <50          >65          >75            >80     -     >90
households with
disinfected supply
Service to the    Percentage of               <40          >50           >70           >80           >90
Poor              households in strata
1,2,3 connected to
.......piped water %                                   ->                             8
Percentage of               <40          >50          >70>7>8
households in strata
1,2,3 connected to
public sewerage O/
Efficiency of     Number of employees          >8          <6            <4            <4             <4
Service           per thousand water
.supply customers
Sustainability    Working ratio \6>1.0                     <0.7         <0.7           <0.6          <0.5
of Service
I/  Cunting from the time the PSP contract was signed. The results of year 4 and on will be measured after closing date.
Specific targets for each utility will be specified in PSP contracts
2/  Number of households served with piped water / total number of households in the concession/service area
3/  Number of households served with sewerage service / total number of households in the concession/service area
4/  Number of households served with continuous water supply / total number of households in the concession area
5/ Number of households served with Disinfected water / total number of households in the concession/service area
6/  (Cash operating expenditure/Cash operating revenue)



Page 42
Performance Monitoring Indicators for Small Municipalities
Indicators                                  IBaseline        Minimum  Targeted Value Expected for Each
Value                  Project Participatfing Utility
End of  i   End of   iEnd of                  Full
Year 2i         Year 4         Year 5         Impact
-  ---p.   -              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. .......  .-    -  .-  -  4..... ...... ........
Number of                                                                               At least 15  .-A t le a'st'1"5'
PSP Contracts
Signed                            ---
Service to Al    Percent age of          -       <60          >80          ->90             >90            >90
households connected
to pipd water "
Percentage of                 <30          >60            >70    -       >75            >90
households connected
to public sewerage
iPercentage of                < <0          >80           >90             >90            >90
household with 
continuous supply
Percentage of -   ~           <50    1   >80              >90            >90            >90
households with
disinfected supply 
iEfficiency of  1Number of                        >8            <6            <5              <5             <5
Service          iemployees per
Ithousand water
supplycustomers
Sustainability   Working ratio          ~       > 1.0         <1.         -  0.8            <0.7          -<0.6
~ofService 
I/  Co&un`ti,n-g, 'f'ro',m th'e ti-m,"e t,he P S  P-  "co n- t ra-ct- w a-s signed. The results of year 4 and on will be measured after closing date.
Specific targets for each utility will be specified in PSP contracts
2/  Number of households served with piped water I total number of households in the concession/service area
3/  Number of households served with sewerage service / total number of households in the concession/service area
4/  Number of households served with continuous water supply / total number of households in the concession area
5/ Number of households served with Disinfected water / total number of households in the concession/service area
6/  (Cash operating expenditure/Cash operating revenue)



Page 43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Basic Project concepts:
Introduction: The project seeks to support the water sector reforms in medium size cities or regional
associations of municipalities (populations of up to about 300,000 inhabitants) and in small
municipalities (populations of up to bout 12,000 inhabitants) by facilitating the incorporation of the
private sector in the management and operation of the water and sanitation services in the utilities of
participating cities and municipalities and by providing financial support to these utilities, while
ensuring provision of services to the poor. Based on experience in the LAC region and in Colombia
(see Annexes 17, 18 and 19) it is assumed that once the private sector gets involved in managing the
utilities, the level of the water and sanitation services will improve, the services will become more
efficient and more reliable, the coverage of the services will expand and the access of poor
consumers to the services will increase.
The project reflects the Government policy to provide assistance only to utilities which choose to
incorporate the private sector in management and operation of the water and sewerage services, since
the PSP approach is believed to be the best way to improve the performance of the water utilities and
the level of service which they provide to the customers. Consequently, the project is demand driven
and will assist municipalities which choose to participate and: (i) agree to private sector participation
in their water utilities; and (ii) reach an agreement with MED regarding a tariff increase which will
elevate the tariffs to a level which will cover at least operation, maintenance and depreciation cost,
and as higher than that as socially and politically possible. For the purposes of the project, PSP is
defined as transferring full management and operation responsibility to the private sector and
provision of investments by the private sector in an amount which is compatible with the agreed
level of tariffs. For the purpose of helping to diminish disparities, the project will focus on
supporting: (i) medium size cities and small municipalities, which suffer from investment backlog
and low level of services; and (ii) municipalities in the Caribbean region, in which the water and
sanitation services are less developed than in other parts of the country. The mentioned priorities
would result in providing support to population of scarce resources, since most of the population in
the medium size cities and small municipalities of the Caribbean region is of low income. Lists of
the medium size cities and small municipalities in the Caribbean region, which are potential
candidates to participate in the project, are presented in Annex 14.
Usually the tendency in PSP in the water sector is to reach an agreement on a full concession, under
which the concessionaire commits to provide all the investments required during the contract period.
However, under the conditions in medium size cities and small municipalities in Colombia, it would
be difficult to reach full concession agreements. Most of these cities suffer from significant
infrastructure backlogs and need high investments, while the current tariffs which the service users in
these cities pay are quite low (see typical values of current average monthly bill per stratum in the
following table). As mentioned, the first step is to reach an agreement with the municipal authorities
of cities which choose to participate in the program in regard to the maximum acceptable tariffs
increase. Estimated values of average monthly bill per stratum after PSP are presented in the
following tables. However, it is estimated that in most medium size cities and certainly in all small
municipalities, even with tariffs increased to the maximum socially acceptable level, it would not be
possible to finance all the works required in the next 10-30 years (the contracts period range) just
from tariffs. So the private sector which will be hired to manage a utility will invest up to a level that
can be recovered from tariffs, whereas the rest of the investments needs to be provided by the public
sector (national and/or local government) in the form of subsidies or loans to service users.



Page 44
Typical Current Average Monthly Water and Sewerage Bill in Small
and Medium Size Municipalities
Stratum         Average Monthly bill In Small  Average Monthly bill In Medium Size
Municipalities Before PSP            Cities Before PSP
(US$)                             (US$)
I                     1-3                                1-4
2                     2-4                                3-7
3                     3-5                               4-8
4                     4-6                                5-9
5                                                       6-12
6                                                       12-20
Commercial                5-15                              10-25
Expected Average Monthly Water and Sewerage Bill in Small and Medium
SizeMunicipalities After PSP
Stratum         Average Monthly bill In Small  Average Monthly bill In Medium Size
Municipalities After PSP             Cities After PSP
(US$)                            (US$)
1                     3-6                               3-7
2                     4-7                               6-10
3                     5-8                               7-15
4                     6-9                               8-16
5                                                       10-25
6                                                       18-35
Commercial                10-30                             30-40
The assistance which will be provided by the project would include: (i) technical assistance to
utilities to prepare and carry out the processes of incorporating the private sector in the management
of the water and sanitation services; (ii) support to mayors in convincing the main actors (mainly
municipal councils, Governors and state governments, business community, community
representatives community organizations and NGOs) to accept PSP in the utilities; and (iii) financial
support to cover a portion of the required infrastructure investments, which the private sector cannot
provide.
The concepts and the methodology of the project were developed in the framework of component E,
the water utilities modernization component, of the Municipal Development Project (Loan 3336-
CO). Two different mechanisms were developed to support: (i) medium size cities with populations
of up to about 300,000 inhabitants; and (ii) small municipalities with populations of up to about
12,000 inhabitants. The differentiation resulted from the fact that from the private sector's
standpoint, the business is different in the two size ranges of municipalities, and the required type of
operator is different in both, i.e., for medium size cities only an experienced operator with proven
credentials in operating utilities of comparable size can be hired, while for small municipalities
proven experience in operating comparable systems is not required, but rather the capacity to operate
them. The cut off number of 12,000 was selected because it defines reasonably well the limit
between the two types of municipalities and because it coincides with an administrative division in
Colombia. For both types of municipalities, model bidding documents have been developed, which
include the terms of reference (bases de la licitaci6n), specifications and draft contract. For each
municipality, engineering and financial consultants will be hired to prepare the required investment
program (Plan de Obras e Inversion - POI) and the financial projections of the new privately
managed utility, respectively. The PIU at the Ministry of Economic Development, in cooperation
with the municipal authorities, would then incorporate the investment and financial data in the model
bidding document and will produce a specific set of bidding documents for each participating
municipality.



Page 45
Medium size cities: The operators for medium size cities must be private companies or joint
ventures which have proven experience in operating similar size water and sewerage systems and are
financially solid institutions which can mobilize the required funds for investment. The contract for
the medium size cities, which defines the proposed model, is denominated "operation contract". The
investment commitment of the private operator of each city will depend on the level of tariffs agreed
upon with each mayor. In one extreme, under which the tariffs can support only operation,
maintenance and depreciation, it would be a management contract (operation without investment), in
the other extreme under which the tariffs can support all the investments, it would be a full
concession (operation plus commitment to provide all the required investment), while in most cases
it is expected to be an operation contract under which the operator would commit to provide part of
the required investment while the rest will have to come from the public sector, either the
government or the municipality or both. In practical terms, in medium size and small municipalities
in Colombia, the government would have to provide such funds because the financial conditions of
the municipalities prohibit them from providing meaningful contributions. If the maximum tariff
level acceptable to the mayor does not cover the operation and maintenance cost of the utility, the
participation of the city in the project will be rejected, since the utility is financially nonviable and
the private sector cannot operate under such conditions.
The basic principle of the operation contract is that it only commits the operator to provide an
investment compatible with the level permitted by the authorized tariff. The rest of the investment is
the responsibility of the public sector and it will be attempted to provide, under the project, the
amount of support requested by the private operator. However, funding restrictions might limit the
availability of funds for each city, in which case the public sector would commit to provide an
investment at a level which will at least ensure that the rate of return to the private operator of the
entire transaction will be attractive enough3. This will be done by defining in the bidding documents
a cap on the amount which the public sector will provide. The cap value will be derived from the
financial model ensure the achievement of the adequate rate of return. The operation contract
stipulates the investment program over time (the POI) required to bring the system to optimal
conditions, as proposed by the winning bidder, and includes the commitrnent of the operator to
finance and construct the part of it which corresponds to him according to his proposal. When public
funding is required, its use and allocation will be derived from the POI. MED and the municipal
authorities will reach an agreement with the operator regarding the works and/or goods of the POI,
which be financed by the government subsidy.
The criterion for selection of the winning bidder is simple and transparent; the contract would be
awarded to the bidder who requests from the public sector the lowest capital investment subsidy in
order to complete the works of the POI and bring the system to the optimal state, as well a operate
and maintain the water and sanitation system. No operation subsidies are involved and the
maximum amount that the government is ready to pay (the subsidy cap) will be stipulated in the
bidding documents. The performance indicators targets (metas del contrato) will be stipulated in the
draft contract which forms part of the bidding documents, will be compatible with the subsidy cap
and will also ensure an adequate service to the poor. Each proponent will submit his own POI,
which may be different than the POI proposed by the engineering consultant, since the POI reflects
the technical proposal and it is advisable to let the private sector introduce its own ideas and
innovations. Each bidder will provide in his proposal a detailed annual scope of works and related
dollar amount which he commits to carry out each year. The winning bidder will commit that after
receiving from the government an agreed set of works whose value is equivalent to the amount of
subsidy which he requested, he will attain the target indicators value along time, as stipulated in the
3 The value of the rate of return for each case will take into account the specific risks of the municipality in question
and may vary in the range of 15% to 25%.



Page 46
contract, i.e., the operator will commit to attain the target indicators corresponding to the total level
of investments provided (private plus public investments).
The yearly work program can be changed in mutual agreement with the mayor but the operator
would have to comply with the total amount of the annual investment program. The amount which
the public sector has committed to provide will not be made available to the operator, for his
discretional use, but will be rather used to finance part of the infrastructure works stipulated in the
POI, which will be proposed by the operator (i.e., works considered by him as high priority works)
and approved by the municipal authorities and the PIU. In this form, the private operator will not
receive a financial contribution from the government, but mther the right to operate additional
infrastructure which is owned by the municipality, and whose value is equivalent or close to the
amount of the subsidy which he requested in his proposal. Under the project, the government in
effect finances additional infrastructure for the city. In each city, the works financed by the
government will be designed by the private sector managed utilities and the executing agency of
each subproject will be the privatized water utility of the city. In this manner it will be assured that
the infrastructure provided by the government will be totally satisfactory to the private operator and
will meet his requirements. The works and goods financed with Bank loan proceeds will be procured
under public bids in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines. If the total amount required
for financing the works and goods as a result of the bidding processes will be higher than the amount
committed by the government, the private operator will provide the balance. If the required amount
will be lower than the that committed by the government, the remaining government committed fund
will be used to finance additional works. The supervision and control of the PSP contract will be the
responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality, which may hire an individual
consultant or a consulting firm, on a full or partial time assignment, to carry out that task and
determine if the performance targets are achieved by the operator. The duration of the operation
contracts would be in the range of 20-30 years, which is the time required to recover investments in
this type of contracts. A clause of tariff revision once every five years will be included in the draft
operation contract.
If the authorized tariff level would be sufficient to cover all the investment program (with no need
for receiving support from the public sector), the contract would then be awarded to the bidder who
offers the highest reduction in the authorized tariff (i.e., the lowest tariff). Additional detailed
regarding the proposed model for medium size cities are presented in Annex 15.
Other PSP models do not require a technical proposal and some experts consider that a technical
proposal should not be requested since the operator is only requested to provide performance and it is
irrelevant how he achieves it, as long as he delivers. This approach might be reasonable for the cases
in which no capital investment subsidy is requested from a third party, usually the government, i.e.,
when the operator is required and agrees to provide all the investments during the contract period
(which is defined as a full concession). However, when a third party is providing partial financing,
especially when this financing is provided in the form of a subsidy, it is reasonable to expect that that
this party will receive all the technical and financial information regarding the program it is going to
finance and have a say on the works it is financing, especially when the third party is the
government, which has social objectives and has auditing commitments, i.e., needs to be able to
provide detailed report regarding the use of its funds. Submission of the technical proposal does not
deprive the private operator from the ability to be innovative. First of all, it is the operator that
prepares the technical proposal and he can incorporate in it the innovations he finds fit. In addition
the operator does not lose the option to incorporate new innovations in the future, since he may
propose alternative PAOIs, in the future, prior to the period of implementation of the works. If the
alternatives achieve the same result at a lower cost, they may be approved by the contracting
authority and the operator will benefit from the savings. This will provide an incentive to the
operator to propose innovations.



Page 47
The financial analysis of the proposed privately managed utility is an essential tool for preparing the
PSP process. The financial model which will be used in the future by the consultants, for preparation
of the concession documents and by the MED staff to conduct the quality control of the consultants'
work, will be agreed upon with the Bank. Whatever the model chosen, arrangements will be made to
have the PIU team trained in the use of the model.
Recently, the water utilities of several medium size cities in the Caribbean region have been
privatized under various PSP models, utilizing technical assistance provided by the government. The
government has also offered financial support to the privatized utilities but has encountered
difficulties in providing it. It requested, therefore, that these utilities be eligible to access financing
under the proposed project. Such utilities could become eligible to project financing under the
following conditions: (i) the private operator has been elected through a competitive bidding process
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the agreed tariff levels are adequate and coincide with the principles of the
proposed project, or, in case they are inadequate, the operator and the municipal authorities agree to
bring them to adequate levels; (iii) the municipal authorities are ready to contribute matching
financial resources from government transfers or other sources; and (iv) if necessary, the private
operator and the municipal authorities agree to modify the performance indicators stipulated in the
operation contract, add to it indicators for low income areas and incorporate in it other amendments,
as required by MED and the Bank.
During project preparation, PSP processes based on the described model were prepared for several
cities (Cucuta, Maicao, Sincelejo, Corozal, Quibdo, Flandes, Espinal, Duitama, Popayan and others)
as well as for several regional schemes (Acuavalle, composed of 33 municipalities, ERAS composed
of Cerete, Sahagun, Cienaga de Oro, San Carlos and San Pelayo, and ARATT composed of Arjona
Turbaco and Turbana). Three bidding process were initiated, like those in Cucuta, ERAS and
Maicao. One process, in the city of Maicao, was completed successfully and has been awarded to a
private operator. Unfortunately, in the other two, no proposals were submitted. The reasons for that
are: (i) the bidding processes coincided with the end of the term of mayors in Colombia in late 2000,
which hindered the processes by allowing only a short time of about three weeks for submission of
proposals; (ii) security problems in the regions of the two cities; and (iii) the impact of the water
pollution taxes "tasas retributivas" and other environmental contingent liabilities (financial impact of
possible future more stringent environmental norms), which were mentioned by potential private
operators as a reason for finally deciding not to submit a proposal.
Small municipalities: The contract with private operators in small municipalities is denominated
"Constructor-Operator" contract. The concept of incorporating the private sector in the management
of utilities of small municipalities with populations of up to 12,000 inhabitants is perhaps the most
significant innovation of the project. Common perception suggests that it is impossible to privatize
small utilities, because the private sector does not have interest in utilities which serve less than
300,000 inhabitants. However, experience shows that in Colombia (see Annex 17) and in other
countries there are successful small-size private operators in the water and sanitation sector,
managing utilities without any government support. The basic assumption of the "constructor-
operator" concept is that big operators have interest in managing utilities of large and medium size
cities, while small utilities attract small operators. The concept was developed during project
preparation and was adopted by the government.. It is the first time that any government in Latin
America supports PSP in a large number of small municipalities with a population of less than
12,000 inhabitants each. The concept of the "constructor-operator" model in small municipalities is
that through competitive bidding small and medium size construction companies, possibly in
association with small consulting firms, will compete for the construction and/or rehabilitation of the
water supply and sewerage systems in a small municipality and the winning bidder will have to
commit to operate the systems for a period of 10-15 years from the date of signing the contract. No
experience in operation of water systems is required from the bidders. It is assumed that
construction companies that have the capacity to construct the systems, also have the technical and



Page 48
management capacity to operate them after minimal training, since the involved systems are quite
small and simple. The winning bidder will receive from the PIU training in management of water
utilities as well as written material and management software. Certification of small operators will
also be undertaken by the MED two years after the initiation of the activity of each operator. In this
manner, the project will help to convert the constructors to operators. The required qualifications of
bidders will be: (i) technical -experience in construction of works of similar size and complexity and
availability of an operation and management team; (ii) financial - submission of audited income
statements of the last three years, as well as proof of availability of working capital; and (iii) legal -
submission of documents of registration as a legal entity. It is expected that this type of contract will
be attractive for both the municipal governments and the construction companies. Municipal
governments will find it attractive because of the significant amount of central government subsidy
involved, as detailed below, while construction companies will be interested in the construction
contracts, especially during the crisis period which the country is currently experiencing.
The Constructor-Operator must first calculate the construction cost of the works he is required to
construct, and then the ten-years operating cost, bearing in mind the income to be generated by user
tariffs and the portion of that income which he can contribute to construction, while still maintaining
reasonable profits during the operation period. The residual construction cost, i.e., the difference
between the value of the works and the contribution to construction cost from future income, will be
contributed by the government as a "construction cost contribution" in a form of a n investment
subsidy to the population of the small municipality. The municipality will also be requested to
contribute a portion of the subsidy from Law 60 resources. As in all concession contracts, the
commercial risk will be borne by the operator. Since the majority of the population in small
municipalities, especially in the Caribbean region, is of low income, the subsidy will mainly benefit
the poor. Also, since the small municipalities suffer a significant backlog in infrastructure and the
population does not have the capacity to finance this backlog through tariffs, the government subsidy
needs to be high enough so as to finance most of the works, while only a small portion can be
financed from tariffs and Law 60 funds. Although it might appear from the description presented
above that the bidding process for selection the Constructor-Operator is a process for small works, it
is in fact a process of selecting a private operator, in which the selection criterion of the winning
bidder is the lowest subsidy that is required to construct, operate an maintain the specified water and
sewerage infrastructure in the municipality. The Constructor-Operator model is basically a
concession tailored for small municipalities, in which the government finances, in the form of a
subsidy, most of the required water and sewerage infrastructure investment in the participating small
municipalities. The model is in fact similar to that of the operation model in medium size cities, with
three differences: (i) in small municipalities the operator is also the constructor, and this was required
for the creation of the operators market; (ii) the level of government subsidy will most probably be
grater (in terms of percent of total investment) in small municipalities; and (iii) the duration of the
contracts in small municipalities is 10-15 years while the duration of the contracts in medium-size
cities is 20-30 years. Although initially constructors may not find such an operation attractive, they
might agree to be responsible for system operation and management because of their interest in the
construction portion of the contract. After operating the system he himself constructed for ten years,
the Constructor-Operator will most probably recognize the benefits of performing as a system
operator, i.e., benefiting from a stable, reliable and continuos source of income, while performing a
relatively simple task. It is expected that this will convince the entrepreneur to remain an operator on
a permanent basis. In that manner, through the concept of constructor-operator, it is expected that the
market of private operators for small municipalities will be created.
The proposed process for incorporating the private sector into the utilities of small municipalities is a
simplified process, which reflects the conditions in municipalities of that size. The procedures
followed traditionally for incorporating the private sector in the management of the services, in
addition to being lengthy and cumbersome, are inappropriate for small operators with limited
resources. The process begins with a study which defines how much can the population pay for the



Page 49
water and sanitation services. The capacity to pay must be taken into account, because if operating
costs exceed what users can afford, the project will not be viable. If the capacity to pay exceeds the
operating costs, leaving a suitable profit for the operator, the project can be considered viable. The
average tariff users will pay will be constant during the operations phase and must be agreed upon
with the municipal authorities and approved by them. A fixed formula for revising the tariff, to be
applied automatically for inflation adjustment, will be established. A tariff review mechanism to
compensate for unforeseen events will also be included. After the govemment reaches an agreement
on tariffs with the municipal authorities, the detailed design of the required works will be prepared
by a consulting firm, including specifications. Model bidding documents have been developed for
the Constructor-Operator model. They are based on standard documents for procurement of small
works, in which appropriate modifications have been introduced and to which the operation contract
has been attached, so that altogether they provide the documents for a concession model. The
contract (construction plus operation) will be awarded to the bidder which requests the lowest
amount for constructing the water and sanitation infrastructure works and commits to manage and
operate the utility in accordance with the terms of the contract, for a period of ten years from the date
of signing it, while charging the tariffs stipulated in the contracts. This is equivalent to the lowest
subsidy that is required to construct, operate and maintain the specified water and sewerage
infrastructure in the municipality. The bidding process for selecting the operator will begin when the
design has been completed and the specific information has been introduced in the set of bidding
documents. Bidders will estimate the present value of surplus operating revenue and determine how
much they can contribute from the future income to finance the works, and how much they request as
public sector (government and municipality) subsidy. Bidders may also provide alternative designs
which might reduce costs. The winning bidder will be required to establish a special purpose
company with separate accounts to construct and operate the water and sewerage systems of the
municipality. Additional detailed regarding the proposed "Constructor-Operator" for small
municipalities are presented in Annex 16.
The supervision and control of the PSP contract after the completion of works will be the
responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality, which may hire an individual
consultant or a consulting firm, most probably on a partial time assignment, to carry out the that task
and determine if the performance targets are achieved by the operator. The "constructors-operators"
will be small entrepreneurs who may have limited access to credit. Since they will need such access
in order to be eligible to participate in the bidding processes and to finance a portion of the works,
the project will help them obtain a credit guarantee through the Fondo Nacional de Garantias (FNG),
a government agency whose purpose is to promote the activity of small firms and entrepreneurs by
providing them with credit guarantees which will enable them to obtain loans from local banks. The
PIU is working with FNG to ensure the provision of guarantees to "constructors-operators"
participating in the project.
During project implementation, the MED will provide technical assistance to small operators to
assist them in obtaining the knowledge and experience required for managing a water utility. The
PIU has already prepared a package of technical assistance for the small entrepreneurs which
provides information, training and software for financial and commercial (billing and collection)
management, operational performance in aspects such as unaccounted for water reduction, metering,
service coverage, labor efficiency etc. During project preparation, the PIU has been promoting the
idea of small private water operators by conducting various workshops and seminars with potential
operators. It has also financed some training courses on management of small water utilities which
were offered by several universities and were in great demand. All these activities will continue and
are expected to assist in the developing the market of small entrepreneurs which would serve as
operators of the utilities in small municipalities.
The financial analysis of the proposed privately managed utility is an essential tool for preparing the
PSP process. The financial model which will be used in the future by the consultants, for preparation



Page 50
of the "Constructor-Operator" documents and by the MED staff to conduct the quality control of the
consultants' work, will be agreed upon with the Bank. Whatever the model chosen, an arrangement
will be made to have the PIU team trained in the use of the model.
During project preparation, a pilot PSP processes based on the "Constructor-Operator" model were
prepared in eight small municipalities (Puerto Escondido, Los C6rdobas, Mofnitos, San Bernardo del
Viento, Cumaral, Nataga, Palermo, and Tello). Because of government budget restrictions to finance
the related investments, the bidding processes were carried out for only five municipalities, and of
these, two processes have been successfully completed for the municipalities of Cumaral and Nataga
and the contracts have been awarded and signed. The others suffered from the fact that the bidding
processes coincided with the end of the term of mayors in Colombia, on late 2000, which had a
negative impact on those processes. Details regarding the processes of Cumaral and Nataga are
presented at the end of Annex 16.
Destination of Bank proceeds: Under the conditions in Colombia, in most of the medium size cities
and practically in all the small municipalities, the private sector would not be able to finance all the
required investments because the tariff levels, even after the increase induced by the project, will not
be sufficient for that, and the public sector will have to provide financing to close the gap. The Bank
funds will be lent to the government of Colombia, which will use them mostly as subsidies to finance
public investments in water and sanitation infrastructure in medium size cities and small
municipalities, which cannot be financed by the private sector and need to provided by the public
sector. Since the program is demand driven and the loan amount has been set in an agreement
between the government and the Bank, a mechanism needs to be set to determine how much funding
will be allocated to each medium size city. A cap will be included in the bidding documents of each
city regarding the amount of subsidy which the government will provide. The cap will be decided
upon so as to ensure the financial viability required achieve the established set of performance
targets and by the availability of funds allocated to the medium size cities component, so as to ensure
targeting the planned number of these type of cities. The allocation problem does not exist in the
case of small municipalities since in those, the amount allocated for each municipality will be the
amount required to complete the investments.
In addition, part of the Bank funds will be used to finance the technical assistance activities which
will be provided to each participating municipality for incorporating the private sector in the
management and operation of the services, i.e., to finance the involved studies (engineering,
financial, legal), assistance in bid evaluation, contract signing, etc. Bank funds will also be used to
finance studies regarding strengthening the sector's environmental management capacity and
developing the policy for the rural and sanitation sector, as well as for financing the activities of the
PIU.
Ensuring Provision of Services to the Poor: In medium size cities: in order to ensure services in
poor neighborhoods of medium size cities, two sets of pre-established performance targets, varying
along the years, will be stipulated in the operation contracts, one for the entire city and one for the
poor neighborhoods (defined as neighborhoods of strata 1,2 and 3). The operators will commit to
achieve both sets of targets, thus ensuring the provision of services to the poor in the medium size
cities. In small Municipalities: the eligibility criteria for participating small municipalities will
provide a screening mechanism which will ensure that only poor municipalities will be able to
participate in the project. This will be done by the use of the social indicator INDEMUN4 (Indice de
4INDEMUN is a territorial development indicator which reflects in each municipality a set of social indicators
(coverage of education, coverage of public services, health, unsatisfied basic necessities) as well as financial
indicators (tributary and non-tributary income per capita and expenses per capita). The INDEMUN indicator has 8
categories. Category 1 reflects the least developed municipal level and category 8 the most developed. Category 5
was selected as the cut off category of the indicator in order to be inclusive enough, while on the other hand not to
include in the project municipalities with too high a level of development and too low a level of poverty.



Page 51
Desarrollo Municipal - Municipal Development Index) which is determined annually by DNP for
each municipality. Only municipalities with an index value of up to 5, which reflects low income
municipalities, will be eligible to participate in the project. That will ensure that most of the
population in the participating small municipalities is of low income, and so the small municipalities
component of the project would provide services to the poor and assist in poverty alleviation.
Experience in Colombia shows that, contrary to the common perception, which holds that the private
sector serves better the rich and neglects the poor, utilities managed by private operators serve the
low income areas better than the best public utilities in the country, as demonstrated in Annex 19.
Policy of Subsidies: The tariffs for each stratum will be structured in such a manner that consumers
in strata 4, 5 and 6 will pay through the tariff their share in the investment program and will not
receive any subsidies. As a result, all the investment subsidies financed by the Bank will benefit
only consumers in strata 1,2 and 3, i.e., population residing in low income areas. This approach is a
requirement of Law 142 and also a project objective of supporting the poor.
Eligibility Criteria: There are some differences in the eligibility criteria of small municipalities and
medium size cities to participate in the project, however, the criteria in both cases are quite similar.
The main eligibility criteria are: (i) the water coverage rate in the municipality is lower than a pre-
established value; (ii) the mayor and the municipal council agree to PSP and accept the proposed PSP
model; (iii) the mayor and the municipal council agree to new tariffs at a level which will ensure
coverage of at least the operation, maintenance and depreciation costs, and as higher as that as
socially and politically possible; (iv) the mayor and municipal council agree to contribute to
investments a certain percent (between 8 to 20%, to be established specifically for each case) of the
Law 60 municipal transfers or other municipal resources; (v) the mayor commits to carry out a
campaign aimed at informing the community about the reform, the PSP model and the tariff
adjustment involved (vi) the investment per capita is capped and cannot exceed a pre-determined
value; and (vii) the proposed works will not include resettlement. Additional details regarding the
eligibility criteria of small municipalities and medium size cities are presented in Annex 11.
Possible Impact of Potential Regulatory Reform: The regulatory framework is supposed to be
revised by July 2001, but no major modification are expected to be undertaken by that date.
However, the CRA is considering a major modification of the framework, expected to be completed
before July 2002. The main reforms contemplated for that date include: (a) redefining the scope of
regulation to focus on the larger utilities while providing technical assistance and support to smaller
municipalities, and giving consumers some responsibility regarding service quality; and (b)
promoting competition for and in the market, to provide incentives for cost reduction and efficient
management. Since the project is being prepared under the current regulatory framework, there
might be a need adjustments after the new framework becomes effective. This, in turn, could
introduce a degree of uncertainty, which might deter the private sector from participating in the
project. However, two things are currently known about the new regulatory framework: (i) it is not
expected to become effective before July 2002; and (ii) it will target only about 200 of the largest
utilities. With this in mind, the new regulatory framework does not constitute a substantial concern
for the project because: (i) most of the operation contracts in medium size cities are expected to be
signed before July 2002, so the new framework will not apply to them; and (ii) the new framework is
not meant to apply to small municipalities. The project team consulted with DNP and MED on the
impact of the new framework on project preparation and was advised to continue preparation
activities according to schedule.



Page 52
By Component:
Project Component A - Investments in Subprojects in Medium Size Cities and Small
Municipalities - US$ 61.8 million
Al. Providing financial support to partially finance the public sector funding requirements of the
water and sanitation infrastructure in the medium size cities participating in the project, and execution
of the respective works (US$ 15 million). This sub-component is the second largest of the project and
represents an important project activity. Under this sub-component, civil works and equipment for
water supply and sanitation in medium size cities within the Caribbean region will be financed by the
loan funds as contribution of the public sector to the investments in water and sanitation infrastructure
which cannot be financed by the private sector since the tariff level is not sufficient to recover the cost
of these investments. It is expected that 2-3 medium size cities will participated and be financed
under this sub-component. The loan funds allocated for each city will be determined on the basis of
the financial model utilized during the preparation of the respective PSP processes and the availability
of loan funds. It will be attempted to provide for each city loan funds in the amount requested by the
winning bidder. The funds allocated for each city will not be transferred to the private operator but
rather used to finance infrastructure works considered of high priority by the operator and which have
been approved by the municipal authorities and by the PIU. In this form, the private operator will not
receive a financial contribution from the government, but rather the right to operate additional
infrastructure which is owned by the municipality, and whose value is equivalent or close to the
amount of the subsidy which he requested in his proposal. Under the project, the government in
effect finances additional infrastructure for the city. In each city, the works financed by the
government using loan funds will be designed by the privately managed utilities and the executing
agency of each subproject will be the privatized water utility of the city. This would ensure that the
infrastructure provided by the government will be totally satisfactory and will meet the requirements
of the private operator. The PIU at the Ministry of Economic Development will oversee, in
cooperation with the municipal authorities, the execution of works and will ensure that Bank
procurement guidelines are followed when Bank funds are used. The detailed supervision of works
will be carried out by consulting firms which will be hired under the Technical Assistance activities
of the project. The supervision and control of the PSP contract after the completion of works will be
the responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality. The PIU will provide respective
guidance and the municipality may hire an individual consultant or a consulting firm, on a full or
partial time assignment, to carry out the control of the PSP contract and determine if the performance
targets are achieved by the operator.
A2. Providing financial support to partially finance the public sector funding requirements of the
water and sanitation infrastructure in about 15 participating small municipalities, and execution of the
respective works (US$ 16.8 million). This sub-component is the largest in terms of project funds
allocated for it and represent the main effort of the project. Under this sub-component, civil works
and equipment for water supply and sanitation in small municipalities within the Caribbean region
will be financed by the loan funds as contribution of the public sector to the investments in water and
sanitation infrastructure which cannot be financed by the private sector since the tariff level is not
sufficient to recover the cost of these investments. It is expected that about 15 small municipalities
will participated and be financed under this sub-component. Taking into account that most of the
population in small municipalities is of low income, it is expected that most of the investments in this
type of municipalities will need to be provided from public resources, mainly through the loan
funding. The works will be designed by consultants which will be hired by the PIU and will be
constructed by the private operator of each municipality, under the "constructor-operator" principle.
The constructors-operators will be selected using model bidding documents which have been
especially prepared for this project. The winning bidder may submit an alternative design, which
might be approved by the contacting authority if found to be advantageous. The PIU at the Ministry
of Economic Development will oversee, in cooperation with the municipal authorities, the execution



Page 53
of the works. The detailed supervision of works will be carried out by consulting firms which will be
hired under the Technical Assistance activities of the project. The supervision and control of the PSP
contract after the completion of works will be the responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the
municipality. The PIU will provide respective guidance and the municipality may hire an individual
consultant or a consulting firm, most probably on a partial time assignment, to carry out the control of
the PSP contract and determine if the performance targets are achieved by the operator. The
"constructors-operators" will, most probably, be small entrepreneurs who may have limited access to
credit. Since they will need such access in order to be eligible to participate in the bidding processes
and to finance a portion of the works, the project will help them obtain a credit guarantee through the
Fondo Nacional de Garantias (FNG), a government agency whose purpose is to promote the activity
of small firms and entrepreneurs by providing them with credit guarantees. The PIU is working with
FNG to ensure the provision of guarantees to "constructors-operators" participating in the project. It
is estimated that a deposit of about US$ 500,000 will need to be made in favor of FNG to ensure
issuing the required guarantees. This deposit, which forms part of the small municipalities
component of the project, will be made out of the counterpart funds and will be returned to the
government in due course.
A3. Government counterpart funds for investments in medium size cities and small municipalities
located outside the Caribbean region (US$ 15 million). Under this sub-component, civil works and
equipment for water supply and sanitation in medium size cities and small municipalities located
outside the Caribbean region will be financed by counterpart funds as contribution of the public sector
to the investments in water and sanitation infrastructure which cannot be financed by the private
sector. The works and activities financed by the government will be handled under the same
procedures of those financed by the loan funds within the Caribbean region and will be an integral
part of the project. It is expected that 1-2 medium size cities and about 10 small municipalities
located outside the Caribbean region will participated and be financed under this sub-component.
A4. Execution of works financed by the private sector and by Law 60 resources in medium size cities
(US$ 12.5 million). According to the operation contract, the private operators commit to finance a
portion of the required works in each participating medium size city (in all the regions of the country).
The investments provided by the private operators will be recovered from tariff incomes. The execution
of the works financed by the private operators forms part of the project. Contemplated activities will
include water supply and sanitation works, as well as supply and installation of equipment. Since these
works are totally financed by the private sector and do not involve any Bank financing, the private
operators will use their own procurement procedures to implement these works. In addition, as part of the
PSP transaction, participating municipalities will be requested by the government to commit to provide
each year to the water utilities a portion of their annual Law 60 income. These proceeds will also be used
to finance water supply and sanitation works, the execution of which forms part of the project. The
execution of the works financed by the private sector and by Law 60 will be the responsibility of the
privatized utilities and will be managed by them, with no intervention of the PIU. The control of the
implementation of these works will be undertaken as part of the control of the private operator's contract
and will be the responsibility of the contracting agency, i.e., the municipality.
A5. Execution of works financed by Law 60 resources and by the private sector in small
municipalities (US$ 2.5 million). As part of the PSP transaction, small municipalities (in all the
regions of the country) will be required to commit to provide to the water utilities each year a portion
of their annual Law 60 income. These proceeds will be used to finance water supply and sanitation
works, the execution of which forms part of the project. In certain cases the Constructors-Operators
may commit to finance a portion of the required works which can be recovered from tariff incomes.
The execution of such works also comprises part of the project. The works in small municipalities
financed by Law 60 and the private sector resources are expected to form a small portion of the total
investments required in these municipalities and they will be implemented under the same
procurement procedures as the works financed by the government.



Page 54
Project Component B - Sector Environmental Management Capacity Strengthening - US$ 0.8
million
Strengthening sector environmental management capacity will be achieved mainly by carrying out the
following activities: (i) providing advice on modifying and strengthening key environmental
regulations, especially the existing water quality and effluent discharge regulations; (ii) establishing
sector wide criteria for the environmental management of water and sanitation projects (siting, design,
construction and operation), completing the existing sector technical specifications; (iii) defining
environmental requirements to be included in bidding documents and private sector operation
contracts; (iv) defining methodologies and programs for environmental audits of water and sanitation
facilities; (v) strengthening the environmental management capabilities of the sector as a whole,
especially the Directorate of water and Sanitation in the Ministry of Economic Development; (vi)
providing advice on streamlining the environmental licensing procedures for water and sanitation
projects in regional environmental agencies; (vii) sponsoring training programs on environment for
water and sanitation system operators; and (viii) defining public participation and community
consultation criteria and procedures for water and sanitation projects.
Project Component C - Rural Water and Sanitation Policy Development - US$ 0.9 million
This component consists of Providing technical assistance to support the development of the rural
water and sanitation sector policy, strategy and methods for incrementing water and sanitation
coverage in the rural sector. The strategy development might include an implementation of a pilot
program for testing alternative strategies, focusing on the Caribbean region.
Project Component D - Project Management and Training, PSP Technical Assistance, Studies and
Supervision of Works - US$ 6.5 million
Dl. Project Management and Training (US$ 2.5 million). Financing the activity of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Economic Development. This PIU will be the
implementing agency of the project on behalf of the government. It will consist of about 17
consultants who would be in charge of implementing all the technical assistance activities of the
project and of overseeing the implementation of works which would be carried out under the
responsibility of the participating privately operated water utilities. One of the main tasks of the PIU
is to carry out the "socialization" program involved in the project, which for each potential
participating municipality includes providing all the information to interested mayors and convincing
them to participate, convincing the municipal councils to approve the participation of their
municipality in the project, carrying out the public information and consultation campaigns,
convincing community representatives, business community representatives NGOs and other
important stakeholders to support PSP etc. The PIU will also be responsible for the financial
management of the project, for ensuring that Bank procurement guidelines are used as required, for
disbursements, auditing and reporting. All the training activities of the project form part of this
sub-component. This include training of the PIU staff and training of the individual implementation
units of each subproject, i.e., training of medium size utilities staff in Bank procurement procedures
and training of Constructors-Operators in water utilities management procedures.
D2. Providing technical assistance to carry out the processes of incorporating the private sector in the
management and operation of the water and sanitation utilities in medium size cities (US$1.0 million).
This sub-component represents an important project activity and would entail provision of technical
assistance for the completion of incorporating the private sector in the management and operation of the
participating water utilities in medium size cities, which has started during project preparation, or if
necessary, initiation of processes in new cities and canying them out to successful completion. The PIU
staff will assist the municipalities in hiring the consulting services needed to carry out the PSP processes,



Page 55
which will be financed by the project. The PIU staff will also accompany the municipal authorities of
each city all along the process up to the point of signing the operation contract by the Mayor and the
successful bidder, and will provide all the assistance needed along the way. This assistance will include
review of the work of the consultants hired for preparing and structuring the PSP processes, especially the
program of works and investments (POI) and the financial projections, assistance in preparing the bidding
documents, assistance in carrying out the bidding processes for selecting the private operator and in
evaluating the proposals submitted. After the award of the operation contract and initiation of the
execution of the works financed by the government, the TA will include the hiring of consulting firms to
supervise the works.
D3. Providing technical assistance to carry out the processes of incorporating the private sector in the
management and operation of the water and sanitation utilities in about 25 small municipalities (US$
3 million). This sub-component represent the main effort of the project. The PIU staff will get in
touch with mayors of potential small municipalities and will carry out the socialization of the
processes, the first step of which is to convince the mayors to participate in the project. The PIU staff
will then assist the municipalities in hiring the consulting services needed to carry out the PSP
processes, which will be financed by the project. The PIU staff will also accompany the municipal
authorities of each city all along the process up to the point of signing the operation contract by the
mayor and the successful bidder, and will provide all the assistance needed along the way. This
assistance will include review of the work of the consultants hired for preparing and structuring the
PSP processes, especially the program of works and investments (POI) and the financial projections,
assistance in preparing the bidding documents, assistance in carrying out the bidding processes for
selecting the Constructor-Operator and in evaluating the proposals submitted. After the award of the
operation contract and initiation of the execution of the works financed by the government, the TA
will include the hiring of consulting firms to supervise the works executed by the
Constructor-Operator. A pilot of incorporating the private sector in the management of five small
municipalities has been carried out during project preparation, two of which have been successfully
completed by awarding and signing PSP contracts. The experience gained from this pilot has been
incorporated in the design of the project and will be incorporated in implementing the activities for
structuring the PSP processes in the small municipalities which will participate in the project.



Page 56
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Local          Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component             US $million      US $million    US $million
A. Investments in Subprojects in Medium Size    43.51           13.49          57.00
Cities and Small Municipalities
B. Sector Environmental Management Capacity      0.64            0.16           0.80
Strengthening
C. Rural Water and Sanitation Policy              0.90           0.00            0.90
Development
D. Project Management and Training, PSP          5.75            0.75           6.50
Technical Assistance, Studies and Supervision
of Works
Total Baseline Cost                              50.80          14.40           65.20
Physical Contingencies                           2.00           1.00            3.00
Price Contingencies                              1.20           0.60            1.80
Total Project Costs                     54.00          16.00           70.00
Total Financing Required                      54.00           16.00          70.00
Local          Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Category             US $million      US $million    US $million
Goods                                              7.46             7.46          14.92
Works                                             39.57             7.69          47.26
Services                                           6.77             0.85           7.62
Training                                           0.20             0.00           0.20
Total Project Costs                     54.00            16.00          70.00
Total Financing Required                    54.00           16.00           70.00



Page 57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1. Methodology
A cost benefit analysis was used to determine the economic and financial viability of the Water Sector
Reform Assistance project. The analysis presented in this Annex demonstrates that the sector reform
project is highly beneficial to the economy as a whole, as well as to the major stakeholders. The main
objective of the cost-benefit analysis was to determine the financial and economic viability of: (i) the
investment projects that will be partly financed by the Bank; (ii) the sector reform projects which will be
implemented in each municipality; and (iii) the financial and operational target indicators proposed in the
draft operation contracts.
To assess the viability of the investment projects which will be partly financed by the Bank, a cost-benefit
analysis was conducted. The cost-benefit analysis was conducted on a sample of potential
municipal/regional utilities for which the PSP processes were prepared during project preparation. The
investment programs (POIs) used were conservative estimates based on the operational and service
targets proposed in the draft operation contracts. It is estimated that the winning bidders will adjust the
investment programs by modifying timing of investments or by adopting different technologies, after
obtaining proper authorization from the contracting authority, as long as they can meet the performance
targets. The cost-benefit analysis includes costs and benefits associated with the reform project, and not
only ones related to the proposed works. It not only includes a possible set of rehabilitation and expansion
investments to enable the private operator to achieve the proposed targets, but also the transaction costs of
privatization.
Once the overall viability of the proposed utilities reform was verified, a distributive analysis was carried
out to assess the impact of the reform on overall service users, on the poor and on the government (fiscal
impact). Finally, risk and sensitivity analysis were conducted to assess the impact of changes in critical
assumptions on the economic viability of the reform.
To determine the net incremental costs and benefits, "with" and "without" project scenarios were
constructed in which the for the "with" project scenario it was assumed that all targets in the operation
contracts would be met. For the "without" project scenarios it was assumed that the performance of the
companies under public management would continue unchanged; coverage rates would be maintained at
current levels and no additional expansion and rehabilitation investments are foreseen. On the basis of
these scenarios, the net incremental financial benefits and costs of the proposed investment programs
were assessed, and those were then adjusted for the impact of taxes, subsidies, and externalities to arrive
at the economic flow of costs and benefits. The cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 12
percent, which is estimated to be a proxy of Colombia's opportunity cost of capital.
The same methodology will be applied on municipalities interested in participating in the project, to
establish their eligibility from the economic feasibility standpoint. Only economically viable municipal
project will be eligible to participate in the project. A detail explanation of the methodology will be part
of the project's Operational Manual.
Sample Selection: 10 subprojects for which PSP processes were undertaken during project preparation
were subjected to a cost-benefit analysis and the viability of their proposed operational and financial
targets was assessed. At a later stage, after the project area was redefined to focus on the Caribbean
region, a sub-sample of five subprojects, representing each type of the proposed PSP (medium size cities,
regional systems and small municipalities) was selected for conducting a distributive, sensitivity and risk
analyses, the results of which are presented in the following paragraphs. The sub-sample selected includes



Page 58
the medium size municipalities of Maicao and Sincelejo, the regional system of ERAS and the small
municipalities Nataga and Cumaral, and is identical to the sample used in the financial analysis.
2. Economic Benefits
The main benefits of the reform programs considered include: (i) increases in water and sewerage service
coverage; (ii) the reduction or elimination of rationing and intermittent water supplies; (iii) reduction of
water pollution levels; (iv) reduction of financial transfers from local governments to water utilities.
Economic benefits are assumed equal to the WTP for water supply and sewage disposal services. The
WTP was estimated using revealed preferences method through the estimation of a water services demand
function. Although the improved hygienic and environmental conditions that result from increased water
supply and sewerage coverage and the from improved quality and reliability of these services, are clearly
important benefits, these benefits are not quantified in this analysis.
2.1. Estimation of a Water Demand Function
A demand function was estimated using the "Quality of Life Survey" Encuesta de Calidad de Vida that
was done by the government's statistic department, (DANE) in 1997 (ECV). This sample was establish in
58 municipalities of the country and includes 2.469 households; the size of the sample allowed to
introduce different markets and with them different price structures, a considerable group of
socioeconomic characteristics of the households and other technical, regional and environmental
variables. Given that the survey did not directly reported the volume consumed and its associated tariff,
but the monthly bill that the household had to pay, consumption was estimated based on 1997 tariffs.
In the modeling process it was found that not only the mean but the variances of income were
significantly different in municipalities above 1,000 meters above sea level. As a result, two demand
functions were specified at a national level, one for municipalities located at an altitude of up to a 1,000
meters above sea level and one for municipalities located above that altitude. That way a temperature
variable was incorporated into the model. Different dummy variables were introduced to correct the
heterogeneity of the observations, obtaining homogeneity in consumption for each of the observational
units (Atlantic, Central, Orinoquia, Pacific, and Oriental regions and Antioquia and Bogota). As a result
the model presents significant coefficients for the dummies: Oriental region and Antioquia for the model
for cities above 1000 meters. Both functions were specified with constant elasticity. The details of this
work are available in the project files.
For municipalities bellow 1,000 meters altitude:
(1)        C = e3,58817   NO,26732  e,05896  e,25742
(14.8024)  (7.0985)  (3.5479)  (-6.8895)
Where:
C:.  Metered water consumption, in m3 per month
N:  Household size
Y:   Disposable Income, calculated as the residual income after subtracting the fixed costs for water
and sewerage.
P:   Instrumental variable that represents the marginal price of the services, calculated as the
arithmetic mean of the complementary and luxurious tariffs.
This specification was made through a sample of 989 households and the coefficients of all explanatory
variables were significant at a 99% level of confidence (the values of the t statistic of the coefficients are
presented in parenthesis), and no statistically significant collineality was present.
For all other municipalities the following specification was obtained:



Page 59
(2)        C  e3'9851601 .yO 33198  14,s0536  r- 334792  eReg 40,20502  eeg2-01176323
(21.602)  (IQ.$45)  (4.428)  (-11.966)  (-2.737)    (-4.982)
Where:
C:  Metered water consumption, in m3 per month
N: Household size
Y:  Disposable Income, calculated as the residual income after subtracting the fixed costs for water
and sewerage
P:  Instrumental variable that represents the marginal price of the services, calculated as
the arithmetic mean of the complementary and luxurious tariffs
eR,gl Dummy for the Oriental region, being (1) if the municipality is from this region and (0) when its
of any other region
eRe,2: Dummy for the Antioquia department being (1) if the municipality is from this department and
zero (0) otherwise
This function was specified based on a sample size of 1,480 households and again all explanatory
variables were significant at a 99% level of confidence (the values of the t statistic of the coefficients are
presented in parenthesis), and no statistically significant collineality was present.
2.2. Estimation of Economic Benefits
Economic benefits for water and water and sanitation services, that is the potential beneficiaries
willingness to pay, were estimated applying the revealed preferences methodology, which is the best
methodology to use when there is a market, for the good or service. Using a representative sample of
households at the national level, a demand function for water supply services was specified. It explains
the relation between water consumption and a series of social and economic variables of the household,
and some characteristics of the service supplied.
Additional information about the "without" project situation in each municipality provided a
characterization of the service supplied (type, level, quality, quantity) and its price. Then, using the tariff
levels expected in the case the project is not implemented (without project scenario) the consumption
level was estimated and projected for that scenario.
Using the information from surveys applied in the project area-characteristics of the household, of the
services supplied and its associated prices, and willingness to pay-the consumption levels from
alternative sources are estimated for the households that will not have access to piped services if the
project is not implemented. Using the proposed tariffs under the project, the consumption levels for this
group of consumers was estimated for the with project scenario.
The economic benefits of the project for each household are represented by the area under the demand
curve defined for the range between the consumption level with and without the project, and the resource
savings if as a result of the project the consumers will substitute the use of more expensive sources. In
that sense it is possible to define three main beneficiary groups: connected households and households
that will have access to the service even if the project is not implemented; households that without project
will not have access to a good quality service, and finally households that will not be connected, even if
the project is implemented. The first group, those that will be connected in both scenarios, will have
economic benefits only if in the with project situation tariffs are expected to decrease (as a consequence
of increased efficiency, for example), an will consume more at a lower price, or if without the project
rationing is expected, so their consumption will be reduced in that scenario. The second, group will be
the main beneficiary as it will be able to substitute alternative (more expensive) sources for reliable piped
water and they will also be able to increase consumption. For the third group there will be no economic
benefits nor costs to the project in either scenario. The size of the groups was determined using the
coverage targets in the PSP contract, and the household and population projection that was done for each



Page 60
city. The addition of the incremental benefits from each consumer group determines the gross benefits of
the project.
The estimation of economic benefits is considered conservative as (i) the quality of service in the with
and without project scenarios was assumed similar, although it is expected that service quality will
improve and as a consequence consumption could increase; (ii) for the consumers not connected to the
system in the without project scenario, incremental benefits are explained by the reduction on the cost of
the water, and not to the service quality, and (iii) although some estimation on impact on health were
investigated using information available in the Ministry of Health, these were very difficult to quantify,
thus conservatively were not included in the analysis. Other benefits like possible impact to the local
economy via increased industrial/tourism opportunities were also not included in the analysis.
3. Estimation of Economic Costs
The main costs considered include: (i) the incremental operation and maintenance costs and investment
costs required to achieve the proposed targets; (ii) the cost of connection for water and sewerage services
as additional costs to the customers (this is normally borne by customers, and does not appear on utility
balance sheets); and (iii) transaction costs related to sector reform.
For the estimation of economic costs, shadow prices were used to capture the effects to the economy of
the use of goods and resources such as labor by the project. To convert market prices into shadow prices
conversion factors were calculated for the main inputs of the project: Skilled and unskilled labor, national
and main imported inputs (pipes, equipment and pumps) which are subject to different duties.
Accordingly, both investment and operating costs were also classified in these categories. The results of
these calculations are presented in Table 1. The details of these calculations are available in the project
files.
Table 1: Conversion Factors
Category of costs                         Conversionfactor*
Skilled labor                                                 0.68
Unskilled labor                                               0.61
Imported materials/equipment                                  0.76
National goods                                                0.87
Electricity                                                   1.00
* Conversions factors were calculated specifically for this study. Calculations are available in project files.
Once all financial costs were converted into economic costs, incremental costs were calculated based in
the comparison of the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Given the nature of the reforms that are
being considered, the cost saving s to the economy expected from the incorporation of a private operator
are expected to be substantial.
4. Main Assumptions
The primary source of data are reports prepared by privatization consultants, under the supervision of the
project preparation unit, and the Bank.
Investnent costs include the costs of project preparation, environmental compensatory actions, physical
contingencies, and supervision. The connection and secondary network costs are paid by the customers,
and does not appear on utilities' balance sheets. These costs are thus not included in the financial costs,
but are included in the economic costs. These are costs that the users need to pay for, in order to enjoy
the additional benefits of a piped water supply and sewerage systems.



Page 61
Operation and maintenance costs (0&M) include the cost of labor, chemicals, power, and all
administrative costs. O&M costs for the "without" reform scenario are based on current unit costs. O&M
costs for the "with" reform scenario assumes efficiency gains. Labor costs are calculated as the number of
employees per 1,000 water and sewerage connections (labor productivity) times the number of
connections times the average cost per employee. In the "without" reform scenario, labor productivity
and number of connections remain constant. In the "with" reform scenario, labor productivity and the
number of connection increases in accordance with each utility's efficiency targets specified by the
contract. Chemicals and energy costs are calculated based on projected water production volumes and
unit costs. Other costs are calculated as percentage of direct O&M costs.
The implementation period of investment programs ranges from 20 to 30 years for medium size cities,
depending on the proposed contract terms. For small municipalities, it is 10 to 15 years. The rest
(terminal) value of investments has been assumed to be zero.
Current andprojectedpopulation in the project areas is based on the 1951, 1964, 1973, 1985 and 1993
population census and the populations projections for 2005 made by the National Department for
Statistics (DANE). Usually the number of households per connection is assumed to be one. The annual
targets for the installation of new service connections are based on the projected coverage levels as
specified in the draft operation contracts.
Per capita water consumption is calculated as the weighted average of the current per capita consumption
of metered and non-metered households. Per capita water consumption of non-metered households is
assumed equal to that of metered customers, after adjustments for the impact of price elasticity, which is
assumed -0.26 based on results of demand analysis in municipalities bellow 1,000 meters of altitude. The
discharge factor to collectors and interceptors is assumed as 0.70 and the infiltration factor 0.20.
Water billed. Non-metered customers are charged a flat fee, and metered customers are charged by
volume consumed.
The metering rate is projected to increase gradually.
Unaccounted-for water, defined as water not billed over water supplied, is estimated to gradually
decrease. The physical losses are assumed to decline to 15 percent of water production, while
administrative losses will decline to about 10 % percent. The division between commercial and physical
losses varies by company, but assumed to be 30 and 70 percent, respectively, of total UFW.
The tariff structures and levels are assumed to remain unchanged for both the "with" and "without"
project scenarios. The collection efficiency rate is assumed to remain unchanged in the "without" project
scenario and gradually increase in the "with" project scenario.
5. Results of the Cost Benefit Analysis for the Sample of Utilities Analyzed
The results of the economic cost-benefit analysis for the medium size cities of Cuicuta, Sincelejo, Corozal,
Quibd6, Chiquinquira, Espinal, Maicao and Flandes; for the ERAS regional system and for the
constructor-operator schemes of Cumaral and Nataga are presented in the following table. This analysis
was carried out at an early stage of project preparation, when the project had a national focus. At a later
stage, the focus was shifted to address issues of the Caribbean region, so that only medium size cities
from that region are eligible to participate in the project, while for small municipalities, the national focus
was maintained and municipalities from all the regions of the country are eligible to participate. Two
types of average results were calculated: (i) project sample average which is an average of the results of
the sample of the five municipalities eligible to participate in the project, i.e., Maicao, Sincelejo, Eras,
Cumaral and Nataga; (ii) extended sample average which includes the 10 municipalities on which the
economic analysis was carried out. All the utilities were analyzed for a period of 20 years except those of



Page 62
Maicao and Sincelejo which were analyzed for a period of 30, in accordance with the terms of the
operation contracts prepared for these utilities.
Table 2: Economic Indicators
Subproject          NPV' (US$ 000)           EIRR         Benefit Cost Ratio
Maicao                28,273             46.8%               2.30
Cucuta                25,342              20.5%              1.61
Sincelejo              18,883             32.7%               1.83
Corozal                - 0.117             6.8%              0.83
Quibd6                 4,139              29.1%              1.65
Flandes                0.133              14.3%               1.09
Espinal                2,143             31.0%               1.71
ERAS2                 11,185             27.6%               1.92
Cumaral3                240               14.8%               1.18
Nataga3                 129               18.7%               1.61
Project Sample            11,742             28.12%              1.77
Average 4
Extended Sample            10,037             23.1%               1.66
Average5        =__ _
Using a discount rate of 12%.
2 Regional system.
3 Small municipality: Constructor-operator scheme.
4 Average for the following municipalities: Maicao, Sincelejo, ERAS, Cumaral and Nataga.
5 Average of all municipalities included in the tale, excluding Corozal.
The results of the cost-benefit analysis for the projects included in the extended sample show that as
designed by the privatization consultants, 90% of the projects were economically feasible and their
expected net impact on the economy will be substantially positive. In cases like Corozal, with negative
economic returns, works could be redesigned to ensure that the investments financed and efficiency gains
incorporated will have a desirable economic impact. The results for the project sample average are
slightly better than those of the extended sample average because the systems in the Caribbean Region are
more deteriorated and the population in this region is in many cases in desperate need for improved water
services. In the case of Maicao, because of the highly deteriorated state of the system, the expected
returns on investments are expected to be higher than in the others.
6. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis of the Project Sub-Sample
6.1 Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis shows that the results of the economic analyses are robust for the five cases
analyzed (Maicao, Sincelejo, ERAS, Cumaral and Nataga). The variables identified as representing
major risk to the subprojects are: changes in consumption (price elasticity of demand), resource savings
(substitution of altemative water sources by piped water provided by the project), investment cost
overruns and operating cost overruns. The impacts of these four variables were analyzed in the sensitivity
and risk analysis. The following table shows the possible impact and risk significance of the identified
risk factors.



Page 63
Table 3: Risk Variables, their Significance and Impact
Risk Variable           Impact and Risk Significance
Resource savings        Direct impact on economic benefits of the project if consumers will
(substitution of sources)   not replace alternative sources for piped water. Beyond management
control this variable could convey a moderate risk to the project.
Price Elasticity of     Direct impact on revenues and profitability. Beyond management
Demand                  control; this variable could convey a risk to the project.
Investment Cost Overrun   Direct impact on investment costs. Largely under management
control, conveys a moderate risk to the project
Operating Cost Overrun    Direct impact on operating costs. Largely under management control
conveys a moderate risk to the project.
The sensitivity analysis calculates the impact of single variable changes in a static world. The four
variables identified in Table 3 above, were switched until the subproject analyzed presented no positive
impact. In most cases the exclusion of benefits from resource savings will not be sufficient for the
subprojects to yield a NPV = 0. The large percentage of operating cost overruns required for a negative
result shows that the miscalculation of that variable alone will not be sufficient to make the subprojects
fail. Only in the case of Cumaral, it is possible that an investment cost overrun could jeopardize the
economic result of the subproject. In the constructor-operator schemes, where investments will be
subsidized, investment costs will be closely monitored to avoid any overruns not covered in the estimated
contingencies. In view of the relatively high switch values for the different variables, subproject results
turn out to be robust for all cases.
Table 4: Results of the Economic Sensitivity Analysis - Switching Values for Net Benefit
Economic Benefits               Economic Costs
Reduction in    Reduction in    Investment    Operating Cost
Locality       consumption       source       Cost Overrun     Overrun
(NVP=O)         savings       (NPV=0)         (NPV=0)
(NP V=0)
Maicao                 -75%          -229%            154%           845%
Sincelejo             -54%           -298%            90%            500%
ERAS                   -50%           -992            98%            1,036%
Nataga                 -42%          -408%            70%            428%
Cumaral                -20%           -69%            22%             90%
6.2 Economic Risk Assessment
To enhance the accuracy of the economic analysis by incorporating the uncertainty of the real world,
Crystal Ball software was used. This software allows to measure the extent of various risks and their
effect on the project, modeling a probability distribution for each risk variable and the resulting outcome.
Based on a Monte Carlo simulation of 1,000 trials, the model recalculated the results of the economic
analysis by changing the major risk variables all at the same time. The results of the sensitivity analysis
show that the variables that will have the highest impact are the price elasticity of demand and the
investment costs in the initial years.
Table 5: Assum tions on Probability Distribution and Standard Deviation
Risk Factors              Distribution
Price elasticity of demand    Normal distribution. Mean = -0.26, standard deviation =
0.037 (from demand function for less than 1,000 meters).
Investment cost increase  Triangular distribution. Mean: cost overrun of 1.1.
Minimum = no cost overrun; Maximum = 1.20.



Page 64
Changes in the price elasticity of demand will have a direct impact on consumption and its associated
benefits. When the demand is more price elastic, price increases will be neutralized by decreases in the
demand for services. According to results from the demand analysis, price elasticity has been assumed
normally distributed, with mean = -0.26 and standard deviation = 0.037, with values ranging from -0.15 to
-0.38.
Investments cost overruns have a direct impact on the costs of the project. For this variable, a triangular
distribution was used. Conservatively, assuming that the engineers accurately estimated the investment
costs, the most likely value for overruns is 10 percent. The minimum value is no costs overruns
(engineers' estimates) and the maximum value is 20 percent.
The results of the economic risk analysis are presented in Table 6. Although the probabilities of a positive
net present value are between 55 and 75%, the mean expected net present value from the simulations were
positive in all cases, and considerably higher than the estimated NPV of the subprojects. Given that the
main condition of the proposed project is the incorporation of a private operator in each of the
participating utilities, the risks related to cost overruns are expected to be mitigated by the incentives
established in the contracts to reduce costs. On the other hand, demand related risk could be substantial
and the PIU at the Ministry of Economic Development will have to monitor them closely during project
execution, specially tariff design and its effect on consumption. The social work included as part of
project design will contribute to the mitigation of this risk.
Table 6: Economic Risk Assessment of Subprojects
Subproject Net Benefits
Locality                   Probability NPV>0        Mean Expected NPV(US$ 000)
Maicao                            75%                         181,955
Sincelejo                         55%                         410,819
ERAS                              65%                          89,320
Nataga                            65%                           854
Cumaral                           55%                          64,084
7. Distributive Analysis - Poverty Impact
The difference between the economic and financial cash flows (defined from the equity point of view),
was analyzed to determine who benefits from and who pays for the project. The impact on the direct
beneficiaries of the project, especially of the lower strata, was analyzed in detail to estimate the probable
poverty impact ofthe proposed subprojects. The calculation of the net impact to consumers includes the
benefits form the consumer 'surplus' and the benefits from substituting alternative sources and the costs
that the consumers have to pay.
When the management of water utilities is transferred to private operators, in most cases connected
customers will have to the pay more for the service, since the service will be metered (and hence will
reflect the actual water consumption and wastewater production), billing and collection will improve, and
illegal consumption will be curtailed. The consumer surplus for some existing customers will be
significantly negative, specially for those of higher socioeconomic stratum who currently benefit from
lower tariffs and a better service when compared to poor customers who currently are usually not
connected to the system and pay more. With an adequate tariff structure, new customers, mainly poor,
will be the major beneficiaries from private sector participation in the sector. Table 7 shows the results of
this analysis.



Page 65
Table 7: Net Impa t on Users values in US$ 000
Total     Net Impact    Stratum 1      Stratum 2     Stratum 3   Sstratum 4-6
on Direct
Subproject  Beneficiaries  Beneficiaries  Beneficiaries  Beneficiaries  Beneficiaries
MAICAO
Net present value  28,273        33,649        10,042
of benefits
% of subproject     100%         119%           36%           52%           31%
benefits__                                    _ _ _ _ ___                                _ _ _ _ _
% of benefits to                 100%           30%           44%           26%
direct users
SINCELEJO*
Net present value  18,883        3,637          -501         1,495         3,590          -946
of benefits
% of subproject     100%          19%            -3           8%            19%           -5%
benefits
% of benefits to                 100%          -14%           41%           99%          -34%
direct users
ERAS
Net present value  11,185         1,444         330           835           -721          1,000
of benefits     __       ___
% of subproject     100%          13%           3%            7%            -6%           9%
benefits
% of benefits to                 100%          23%            58%          -50%           69%
direct users
NATAGA
Net present value    129          120           46             35            40
of benefits
% of subproject     100%          93%          36%            27%           31%
benefits
% of benefits to                 100%           38%           29%           33%
direct users
CUMARAL
Net present value    623          330           196           168           -34
of benefits
% of subproject     100%          53%           32%           27%           -5%
benefits
% of benefits to                 100%           59%           51%          -10%
direct users
Maicao. In this case, most households are connected to the system but there is high rationing. The project
will provide access to a more reliable water source, but even in the with project scenario water
consumption it is expected that some rationing will continue. The economic cost of water is therefore
very high. During project the preparation tariff design did not consider the distributive analysis, since it
was not available at that time, and tariffs were set too low when compared to the Willingness To PaS
(WTP). As a result, direct beneficiaries are receiving more than the net impact of the project, which
means that the government subsidies are set higher than needed. Without project, consumers are paying
about 16% of their monthly income to buy water from trucks and othedr sources, while the with project
scenario considers that only 4.3% of the consumers income will be spend on purchase of water. In this
case charging a higher tariff will be more efficient and the impact on government would be more



Page 66
reasonable. When considering Bank financing for this specific project, the proposed tariff structure
should be revised to avoid unnecessary subsidies.
Sincelejo. The results for Sincelejo show that only 19% of the net impact of the project goes to the direct
beneficiaries. The tariff structure selected was not the best alternative, as it has a major negative impact
on the poorest, stratum 1, since the proposed structure charges the same tariff to the first three strata and
goes against the equity spirit of cross subsidies in Colombia. An alternative structure that charges more
to stratum 3 could compensate the losses in welfare to stratum 1.
ERAS. The results for ERAS show that only 13% of the net impact of the project will go to the direct
beneficiaries. Users in stratums 4 to 6 will be the winners and stratum 3 users will have a negative
impact. A higher tariff for the richer stratums, could mitigate the loss in welfare to the poorer strata.
Nataga. The results for Nataga could be an example for other small municipalities. Not only that 93% of
the benefits will have a positive impact on the welfare of direct users, but the project will also have a clear
positive impact on the poor, as most net benefits will go to strata I and 2.
Cumaral. The results for Cumaral show that 53% of the net impact will benefit the direct users, specially
the poor. The proposed tariff structure, however, will generate a negative impact on stratum 3 users,
probably because of the existing tariff lag that prevails in the without project situation.
Overall the proposed projects are economically viable and are expected to be beneficial to the economy
and to the direct beneficiaries. However, the projects are mainly sensitive to demand so an adequate tariff
design should be the main tool for the PIU team to ensure successful projects, not only in terms of
managing consumption but also analyzing closely the proposed structures to avoid negative impacts to the
most vulnerable (stratum I and 2). Unnecessary subsidies should be avoided, although the results show
that subsidies might be needed, especially in smaller municipalities like Cumaral and Nataga.
8. Fiscal Impact
The net fiscal impact of the project is unknown yet since depends on the municipalities which will
participate in the project, which are not known up front in a demand based project. It is estimated that in
the poorer municipalities, which require higher subsidies, the fiscal impact would probably be negative,
while in the better off municipalities it may be positive. The Government gains from: (i) increased income
from income tax paid by private operators; (ii) increased VAT income due to increase in investment and
materials purchases as a result of the project; however, under the proposed project the government
provides capital investments subsidies to the consumers and it is estimated that in poor municipalities, the
value of the collected taxes might not be high enough to compensate for the subsidies provided. The
government also has to 'invest' in transaction costs to facilitate the transfer from public to private
management. The net fiscal impact on the government from the utility reform in the sample of 5
municipalities which were used for the financial analysis (Maicao, ERAS, Sincelejo, Cmaral and Nataga)
is estimated to have a positive value of about US$3.5 million, however, this result is driven by the high
positive fiscal impact of Sinselejo, which is the largest city in the group and the only one which has a
positive impact (of US$ 7.39 million). Details on the fiscal impact of the sample group are presented in
Table 8.



Page 67
Table 8: Fiscal impact of a Sam le of Five Municipalities
Maicao     ERAS    Sincelejo   Cumaral    Nataga         Total
uS $(000)   US $(ooo)   uS $()   US $(OOO)   us $(OOO)   us $(000)
Municipalities
Subsidies (Ley 60)           3,745      3,103        0         2793        44        7,170
Net impact                  -3,74G     -3,103        0         -279        -44       -7,170
Departments
Income (tax)                  0           0          0          0           0          0
Subsidies (Investment)        0           0                     67          0          67
Net impact                    0           0                     -67         0         -67
Departmental Government
National Govemment
Income (Taxes)               3,610      3,517      8,626       148         15        15,915
IVA                          153         372        247         27          3         802
Regulation Tax               491         473        938         0           4        1.906
Total Taxes                 4,254       4,362      9,811       175         21        18,623
Subsidies (investment)s      3,028      1,714      2,421       518         142       7,823
Net impact                   1,226      2,648      7,390       -343       -120       10,800
National Government
Total Fiscal Impact         -2,519      -455       7,390       -689       -120       3,564



Page 68
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Introduction
The proposed reform program will be successful only if it is structured to attract potential investors and
lenders. In order to ensure success, the proposed PSP structures must allow sufficiently attractive rates of
return to potential investors and provide adequate financial comfort to lenders.
Detailed financial analyses and financial projections were prepared for a sample of five utilities (Maicao,
ERAS and Sincelejo, which are medium size utilities, and Cumaral and Nataga which are small utilities).
Draft PSP contracts which were available for the five utilities were used to build the financial scenarios
for the privately managed utilities , and analyze their financial viability. The operation contract of Maicao
and the constructor-operator contracts of Cumaral and Nataga have already been awarded during project
preparation, while the bidding processes for Sincelejo and ERAS have not yet started.
Some important lessons were learned from the results of the financial analyses carried out and those
helped to build a financing policy for the utilities which will participate in the project. Based on that,
some changes were included in the draft PSP contracts which were not yet awarded, i.e., those of ERAS
and Sincelejo. Overall, the financial analysis was an important tool in the learning experience for the PIU
staff, by training them how to evaluate the financial projections of interested utilities, establish the
adequate tariffs and select the utilities which will be included in the project.
The methodology, assumptions and results of the financial analysis of the sample utilities are presented in
this Annex. The presented material reflects the adjustments made in the iterative process of analysis.
Objectives
The main objective of carrying out the financial analysis during project preparation was to develop a
methodology which would ensure that only financially feasible transactions will be included in the project
and to train the PIU staff in using that methodology. The specific objectives of the financial assessment
of each municipal utility were to: (i) assess the financial feasibility of each of the Proposed PSP contracts
included in the sample municipalities, which have been prepared with the help of privatization
consultants; (ii) assess the debt service capacity of the potential operators and their eligibility for
obtaining commercial loans; and (iii) determine the main risk factors and the sensitivity of the overall
feasibility of the operation contracts to these factors.
Methodology
Samples. Financial projection and evaluation models were prepared for a sample of five privately
operated municipal utilities, three of which correspond to the medium size municipalities Maicao,
Sincelejo and ERAS with populations of between 100,000 and 250,000 inhabitants; while the other two
correspond to the small municipalities Cumaral and Nataga with less than 12,000 inhabitants each. The
sample of municipalities on which the financial analysis was carried out is smaller that that on which the
economic analysis was carried out and it includes only five municipalities out of the 10 municipalities of
the economic analysis sample. The reason for the difference in the samples size is that the preparation of
the financial analysis initiated after the downsizing of the loan amount and modifying the project focus in
a manner that participating medium size cities will be only from the Caribbean region while small
municipalities maintained the all-country focus. At that stage, there was no reason to carry out a financial
analysis of the medium size utilities located out of the Caribbean region, so only the utilities of Maicao,
Sincelejo, Corozal and ERAS were maintained in the sample, as well as the small utilities of Cumaral and
Nataga. It was decided to discard the utility of Corozal from the sample since it did not pass the



Page 69
economic analysis threshold, so the sample was finally established as including the five mentioned
municipalities. This is a reasonable sample size for the current project size. Moreover, the main purpose
of the financial analysis is to develop the methodology which would be used during project
implementation, and this can be well achieved with the sample selected. The PIU with the help of some
local firms of privatization consultants prepared financial projections and assessments for each of the five
municipal privately operated utilities, which represent a potential group of project beneficiaries.
Sensitivity and risk analyses were then added to the financial assessments.
Construction of a Spreadsheet Model for financial projections Based on the reports prepared by the
privatization consultants, the PIU, with the help of the Bank, constructed a comprehensive spreadsheet
model for financial projections of the utilities. The model consisted of information regarding
performance indicators targets, demand forecasts, production and treatment capacity, investment
programs and operating costs data, which were all fed into the cost-benefit analysis, financial projections,
and risk and sensitivity analysis modules of the model. The same model will be used by the PIU for
quality assurance of financial projections of other potential participating utilities which will be prepared
by privatization consultants under the project, so as to ensure the financial viability of participating
utilities.
Measuring the Financial Viabilitv of the Privately Operated Utilities The financial viability of the
privately operated utilities was determined by analyzing the following indicators:
(a) Net present value of cash flow from operations, to find out whether the operating contract
structure as proposed in the bidding document is financially viable or not (overall value of
business).
(b) Net present value of the operating contract to shareholders, to find out if the concession structure
is attractive to foreign and domestic investors (value to investors).
(c) Debt equity ratio, to find out if the operating contract structure allows the utilities to stay
financially healthy.
(d) Debt service coverage, to find out if the utilities would have the financial capacity to service
loans that it needs to contract.
(e) Current ratio, to find out if the utilities remain sufficiently liquid to stay financially healthy.
Unlike the cost-benefit analysis presented in Annex 4, which determines the benefits on an incremental
basis (NPV of benefits with reform minus NPV of benefits without reform), the net present values in the
financial analysis was determined on the basis of the "with reform" scenario only.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis Finally, a sensitivity and risk analysis was conducted to determine how
different assumptions and risks affect the viability of the operation contracts. The risk analysis was
carried out using.the Crystal Ball risk analysis software.
Assumptions
The main assumptions utilized in the analysis refer to: (i) operational performance, customer base,
physical capacity of the existing public utilities; (ii) the expected efficiency gains from a private operation
contract; (iii) operational and physical targets of performance indicators as specified in the draft contract
and the most likely investment programs which is expected to achieve these targets; and (iv) minimum
capital, minimum subsidy, and other financial requirements set forth in the draft operation contracts.
Although many of the assumptions were based on the privatization consultants' reports, some
assumptions were adjusted to reflect more conservative scenarios.



Page 70
Operation Contract Award Criteria
The operation contract will be awarded to the bidder that requests the lowest capital investments subsidy
in order to comply with the requested performance indicators targets under the specified tariff regime.
Starting Assets and Liability
Under the proposed PSP scheme, each winning bidder will create a special purpose operation company
with a minimum level of capital. It was assumed that non of the assets and liabilities of the former public
utilities would be transferred to the newly created privately operated utility. However, the new utility will
have the right to operate the assets of the former public utility. In addition, the government will finance
the construction of new installations, which will be agreed upon by the operator, the municipality and the
PIU, in an amount equivalent to the subsidy requested by the operator. These new assets will neither be
transferred to the new utility, but it will have the right to operate them as well.
Basic Assumptions
All the assumptions are identical to those used for the "with reform" scenario of cost-benefit analysis
presented in Annex 4. Most assumptions are based on various efficiency and physical targets set forth in
the draft operation contracts. All the public utilities analyzed presented the following problems before
their take over by the private sector: (i) low operating efficiency; (ii) low metering; (iii) high level of
unaccounted-for water; (iv) low tariffs; and (v) low collection efficiency rates.
One of the key assumptions taken is that the values of these operational efficiency indicators will improve
substantially after take over of operation by the private sector. The following assumptions are related to
the utilities' financing activities that are not presented in Annex 4.
Table 1: Financial Assumptions
Factors                                  Assumptions
|Exchange Rate         It is assumed that the Colombian peso will be devaluated against US$
l                ~~~~~~dollar at a rate of 5% per year.
Inflation              2001: 9%
2002: 8%
2003: 7%
2004: 6%
2005 and on: 5% per year
Discount Rate          12% real discount rate for the calculation of net present values under
the base scenarios
Account Receivables    Based on bill collection rates, and expected gradual increase in bill
collection rates.
Account Payables       Two months of operating expenses
Cash                   One month of operating expenses
Long Term Debt         Debt financing is assumed when the sum of cash from operations,
capital and subsidies do not cover investment. For the base case
scenario we assumed a real interest rate of 8.5%, amortization period
of 15 years for the Bank loan; and interest rate of 14%, amortization
period of 4 years for the rest.
Short Term Debt        Short term debt is taken to finance working capital needs. Interest rate
24%.
Equity Financing       Equity financing occurs when it is required, but is limited to guarantee
an adequate rate of return to investors
Dividend Payout Policy  Any cash in excess of minimum cash



Page 71
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
The current legal framework for water and sewerage tariffs in Colombia was established in 1994 by Law
142. Current regulation is based on tariff setting formulas, and specific rules on the percentage of subsidy
and overcharge that can be applied to the tariffs. The CRA, as the regulatory agency, has issued some
resolutions to explain the methodology which should be followed by the water utilities.
The basic principles that rule water and sewerage tariff policy in Colombia are the following:
*  Tariffs have to be based on the economic cost, including operating costs as well as investment cost.
The CRA establishes that the economic cost for investmnent corresponds to long run average cost
(LRAC), which is defined as the sum of the current assets appraised at their new brand value plus the
present value of future investments divided by the present value of total demand.
*  The subsidies will benefit only the three lower income categories of residential customers (strata 1,2
and 3).
*  The subsidies will be applied only to the monthly fixed charge term of the tariff formula and to the
basic consumption block, i.e., the first block in the tariff formula (but not to the consequtive
consumption blocks).
-  The maximum subsidy level which can be applied is: 50% for the category of the lowest income
customers (stratum 1); 40% for the category of second lowest income customers (stratum 2); and 15%
for the category of third lowest income group of customers (stratum 3). The subsidy could be higher
when the utilities receives additional funds to finance investments, such as government transfers,
private donations or customers contributions.
*  The maximum overcharge which can be applied to residential customers of high income levels (strata
4, 5 y 6) and to non-residential customers is 20%. The same overcharge will be applied to poor
customers (strata 1,2 and 3) in the second and third blocks of consumption.
*  The deadline to comply with all those regulation has been set to be December 2005.
Currently there are only a few utilities which have complied with all the regulations established by the
CRA. Most of the medium and small municipalities have applied tariffs without taking into account the
cost of providing the service, and in most cases they have not even provided the CRA information
regarding the level of their tariffs. The result has been the majority of the water utilities charge too low
tariffs.
Some of the reasons that can explain low tariff levels applied by these utilities are: political interference,
inefficiently run utilities and lack of technical capacity at management level. Consequently most of the
utilities have been financially dependent on government subsidies to cover investments and sometimes
even operating costs.
The utilities included in the sample on which the financial analysis was carried out are in the same
situation as most of the water utilities in Colombia. Tariff structures do not follow the guidelines issued
by the CRA, and current tariff levels are lagging far behind the targets set by the current regulations. In
ERAS and Cumaral current water and sewerage tariffs are just 21% and 30%, respectively, of their
economic cost; in Nataga is 36%; and in Maicao and Sincelejo 60% and 53%, respectively (Table 2).
For these estimations it was assumed that for economic cost of medium size cities, the long run average
incremental cost (LRAIC) is an approximation of the LRAC since no information was available on
current assets appraised as its new brand value, which need to be supplied in the tariff formula of CRA.
For small municipalities, the long run average cost (LRAC) was calculated according to the reference
values given by the CRA for utilities with less than 8,000 households connected to the service, which



Page 72
applies to Nataga and Cumaral5. Operating costs were added based on the information used for the
financial and economic evaluations.
The tariffs used for the financial and economic analyses were those agreed upon by the Ministry of
Economic Development and the municipal authorities during project preparation. These tariffs are in all
cases higher than the current tariffs except for Sincelejo. The increase is more than double in ERAS and
Cumaral, 32% in Maicao, and 21% in Nataga (Table 2). In Sincelejo, average the tariff remains the same,
in spite of changes in some of the tariff levels in different strata categories. It was assumed that a
transition period of 5 years will be applied to reach these tariffs gradually6, so that by December 2005 the
agreed tariffs will be fully implemented, in accordance with the deadline set by the CRA.
The ratio of the agreed tariffs and their corresponding economic cost is about 50% in ERAS, Sincelejo,
and Nataga; 82% in Maicao, and 69% in Cumaral.
Table 2: Economic Cost and Tariffs for Water and Sewerag
Water and Sewerage           Cumaral   Nataga   Maicao   Sincelejo    ERAS
Economic cost' (US$/m3)                   0.51      0.51      0.88       0.74       1.02
Current tariff (US$/m3 )                  0.15      0.19      0.53       0.39       0.22
Current tariff as % of Economic Cost    30%       36%       60%        53%        21%
Tariff in Draft Bidding Contract (US$/m3)  0.37     0.23      0.72       0.39       0.50
Tariff in Draft Contract as % Economic Cost   72%  45%      82%        52%        49%
The economic cost assumed is the LRAIC for medium cities, and the LRAC for small cities.
Based on the economic cost, the subsidies' and the overcharges which result from the tariffs presented in
the draft bidding documents were calculated. The results were then compared with the guidelines given
by the CRA. This procedure was repeated for each of the components of the tariff structure (i.e., for each
of the terms of the tariff formula) and the results are presented in tables 3 and 4.
5 To facilitate the application of the methodology of the tariff formulas, the CRA estimated values of the long run
average cost (LRAC) for water investment in municipalities serving less than 8,000 customers. The values depend
on the monthly consumption per connection and the annual growth rate of demand, and are presented in prices of
December 1995. For consumption between 20 and 25 m3 per month and annual growth rate between 1% to 2% the
investment LRAC for water is Col$ 291.96/m3, and from 2% to 3% growth, the LRAC is Col $ 269.24/m3. The first
value was used for Nataga and the second one for Cumaral. For sewage CRA authorizes a 40% increase as an
approximation cost. These equivalent water and sewage LRAC of investment at December 2000 prices are Col$
81 I/m3 and Col $ 748/rn3 respectively. For more detail see Resolution CRA No 15 de 1996.
6 With the excepcion of Sincelejo and Nataga, where tariffs do not change much.
7 The subsidy and overcharge reflect the amount recovered through tariffs in relation to the investment cost. To
estimate subsidy or overcharge, first the portion of the tariff related to investment (i.e., free of operating costs) is
calculated, and then it is compared to the investment cost.



Page 73
Table 3: Tariffs in the Draft Bidding Document of the Sample Utilities
Cumaral   Nataga    Maicao         Sinceleo        ERAS
Stratum I
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)    1.6        0.4        2.9          1.6           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)    0.2    0.2         0.3          0.2           0.2
Second block of consumption (20-40m 3(US$/m3)    0.3      0.2         0.8         0.7            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m3)    0.3      0.3         0.8         0.7            0.5
Stratum 2
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)    1.9        0.7        3.3          1.6           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)    0.2     0.2        0.4          0.2           0.3
Second block of consumption (2040m 3(US$/m3)    0.3       0.2         0.9         0.7            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m')    0.3      0.3         0.9         0.7            0.5
Stratum 3
Monthly fixed charge (US$ hh/month)    2.3       1.0        4.5          1.6           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)    0.2    0.2         0.5          0.2           0.4
Second block of consumption (2040m 3(US$/m)    0.4        0.2         1.0         0.7            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m3)    0.4      0.3         1.0         0.7            0.5
Stratum 4
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)    3.2        1.2        5.5          5.8           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)    0.3     0.2        0.6          0.5           0.5
Second block of consumption (20-40m 3(US$/m3)    0.4      0.2         1.3         0.9            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m3)    0.4      0.3         1.3         0.9            0.5
Stratum 5
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)    4.8        1.2        5.5          5.8           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (USS/m3)    0.3    0.2         0.6          0.5           0.5
Second block of consumption (20-40m 3(US$/m3)    0.5      0.2         1.3         0.9            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m')    0.5      0.3         1.3         0.9            0.5
Stratum 6
Monthly fixed charge (US$ hh/month)    5.8       1.2        5.5          5.8           4.2
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)    0.3    0.2         0.6          0.5           0.5
Second block of consumption (2040m 3(US$/m3)    0.5       0.2         1.3         0.9            0.5
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m3)    0.5      0.3         1.3         0.9            0.5
The tariff structures agreed upon by MED and the respective municipal authorities for the sample utilities
do not fully comply with the current regulation guidelines in respect of: (i) the requirements that no
subsidies be included in the tariffs of strata 4,5 and 6, nor in the second and third blocks of consumption
of strata 1,2 and 3 (subsidies have been assigned to high income residential customers of categories 4-6
with monthly consumption smaller than 20 m3 and to consumption blocks greater than 20 m3 per month);
and (ii) overcharges, when existing, are higher than 20% (Table 4). However, the deviation from the
regulation requirements does not have much impact because the municipalities under consideration
include only a small number of households in strata 4-6 (and only in two of them). Also, consumption
usually does not reach the second block (over 20 m3/month).
These issues were discussed with the PIU, lessons were learned from the procedures used during
preparation and conclusions were drawn. These procedures will not be repeated during project
implementation, but rather improved ones which will ensure that all the tariffs which will be agreed upon
with participating utilities will comply with the current tariff structure legislation.
As part of the learning and training process of the PIU during project preparation, some adjustments were
proposed to the tariffs agreed upon with the municipal authorities included in the sample. The new
proposed tariffs are shown in one of the following sections of this Annex.



Page 74
Table 4: Subsidies and Overcharges Embedded in the Tariffs Agreed upon with the
Municipal Authorities (the Draft Bidding Documents Tariffs)
Cumaral   Nataga    Maicao       Sincelejo      ERAS
Stratum I
First block (include fixed charge)   66%  85%        51%         60%          65%
Second Block (20 - 40 m   56%        72%        15%         10%          59%
Third block (>40 m)   56%       67%        15%         10%          59%
Siratum 2
First block (include fixed charge)   58%  78%        58%         72%          79%
Second Block (20 - 40 m ')   56%     72%         0%          10%         590/o
Third block (>40 m )   56%      67%        0%          10%          590/o
Stratum 3
First block (include fixed charge)   48%  70%        42%         72%          67%
Second Block (20 -40 m 3)   37%      72%        -17%         10%         59%
Third block (>40 m )   37%      67%       -17%         10%          59%
Stratum 4
First block (include fixed charge)   30%  63%        32%         41%          59%
Second Block (20 - 40 m ')   26%     72%        -49%        -22%         59%
Third block (>40 m )   26%      67%       -49%         -22%         59%
Stratum                    _
First block (include fixed charge)   12%  63%        32%         41%          590/o
Second Block (20 - 40 mi3)   3%      72%        -49%        -22%         59%
Third block (>40 m )    3%      67%       -49%        -22%          59%
Stratum 6
First block (include fixed charge)    I %  63%       32%         41%          59%
Second Block (20 - 40 m 3)   3%      72%        -49%        -22%         59%
Third block (>40 m )    3%      67%       -49%         -22%         59%
Note: The calculations of subsidies and overcharged take into account only the investment costs
When the estimated monthly bills (based on a consumption of 15 m3) of the consumers in the sample
municipalities were compared to those of some other cities whose tariffs have followed CRA regulation
(Medellin, Cartagena and Bogota), it was noted that for low income customers (strata 1,2 and 3) the bills
are higher in the sample municipalities, while for higher income customers (strata 4,5 and 6) the bills are
lower in the sample municipalities.
Table 5: Comparison of Monthly Bills in the Sample Municipalities with Monthly Bills in
Medellin, Cartagena and Bogota
(Bills in US$/Month)
Sample                                        Other Utilities
Cumaral     Nataga       Maicao     Sincelejo     ERAS       Medellin    Cartagena    Bogota
Stratum I       4.7          2.9         7.6          5.3         7.8         2.4          2.9         6.0
Stratum 2        5.3         3.4         9.2          5.3         8.5         4.8          6.2         7.7
Stratum 3       5.9          4.0         12.3         5.3         10.3        9.0         10.2         10.5
Stratum 4       7.2          4.5         14.7        12.6         11.4        14.7        14.0         12.8
Stratum 5        8.8         4.5         14.7        12.6         11.4        23.2        21.3         20.0
Stratum 6       9.8          4.5         14.7        12.6         11.4        30.8        29.6         25.2
Note: Bills estimated on the basis of a monthly consumption of 15 m'



Page 75
IV.    Results
The results of the financial analysis are presented in table 6. They confirm that none of the sample utilities
would be financially viable after PSP without receiving a government investment subsidy. The amount of
the subsidy required in each case varies depending mainly on the tariff agreed upon and on the efficiency
gains which would be obtained by the private operator. The net present value of total amount of subsidies
required for the 5 utilities included in the sample is estimated at US$ 15 million. The results show that
the structure of the operation contracts allows the shareholders and the business to generate enough
profits to attract investors. The profit for the shareholders is estimated at US$ 5 million, while the benefit
from the operation is also estimated at US$ 5 millions (Table 6).
Table 6: NPV, IRR and Subsidies for the Sample Utilities Utilizing the Tariffs Agreed Upon with
the Municipal Authorities
Utility           Contract         Results for Investors       Results for the Business     Subsidy
Period                                                                  Required
NPV        IRR in real       NPV          IRR in real      NPV
(000 US$)       terms        (000 US$)        terms        (OOOUS$)
Cunmaral           10 years        51            17.3%           193           24.1%          864
Nataga             10 year          3            15.7%           35            30.5%          185
Maicao             30 year         314           12.8%           315           12.6%         6,773
ERAS               20 year        1,199          18.0%          1,363          17.2%         4,817
Sincelejo          30 year        3,139          22.2%          3,154          19.5%         2,421
Total                         4,706         17.0%          5,060          16.0%         15,060
Subsidies
The subsidy corresponds to 23% of investment in medium size municipalities and 70% in small
municipalities. Capital injection is about the same in all the municipalities, with an average of 13% of
investment. The required long term debt and internal sources is about 64% in medium size municipalities
and 17% in small municipalities (Table 7). The resultant percentages of subsidies required to finance
investments are reasonable, given that the population of small municipalities has, in general, a lower
income than that of medium size cities, and most of households in small municipalities are located in
areas of the three lowest income categories.
Table 7: Sources of Investment Financing
(Present Values, US$ 000)
Maicao  ERAS   Sincelejo  Nataga [Cumaral  Total  Medium  Small
I______________   ______   I_________   ________   _________   ________   ____ _   cities  cities
Investments  21,J517   14,873   24,215    244    1,249    62,099   60,606   1,493
Financing Sources
Subsidy 6,773    4,817    2,421     185      864     15,059   14,010   1,049
Capital Injection 3,698    1,849  2,694    20       174     8,436    8,242    194
Long Terrn debt 7,535    3,536  5,730      16       175    16,992   16,801    191
Internal sources 3,511    4,671    13,370  23       36     21,611   21,552    59
Total    21,517   14,873    24,215    244      1,249    62,099   60,606   1,493
Financin Sources (%)
Subsidy  31%     32%      10%   j 76%       69%      24%       23%   | 70%
Capital Injection  17%  12%      11%       8%       14%      14%0/    14%     13%
Loan  35%     24%       24%       7%      14%      27%      28%      13%
Internal sources  16%  31%      55%       9%       3%       35%      36%      4%
Total     100%    100%      100%     100%     100%      100%     100%    100%
s The resulting IRR are calculated based on the amount of subsidy which can be given and the maximum tariffs that
can be charge to the communities.



Page 76
When the subsidy is analyzed in terms of number of households connected and number of people served,
the conclusions are similarly reasonable (table 8). The subsidy per person served is higher in small
municipalities and lower in medium cities. There is no perfect relationship between income and subsidy,
but there is a tendency to provide a higher subsidy in cities with lower incomes (table 8).
Table 8: Average Household Income and Subsidy per Connection
_Maicao    ERAS    Sinceleio    Nataga   Cumaral
Current Population                 117,519    121,599    227,104    2,061     9,931
Income per household (US$/hh-month)  191        161       188        91        150
Subsidy per connection (US$/conn)    275        189        37        361       324
Subsidy per person (US$/pp)          48         36         8         76        65
Financial Indicators
From the financial standpoint, the projects are viable and the financial indicators of each utility
demonstrate that the companies are stable during the entire period of the operation contracts. On the basis
of the assumptions of the financial analysis, the utilities will stay financially firm, will have the financial
capacity to serve the loans they need to contract, and will enjoy a sufficiently high liquidity which will
ensure that they stay financially healthy. The financial statements of each utility are presented at the end
of this Annex and a summary of the main financial indicators is shown in table 9.
Table 9. Main Financial Indicators of the Sample Utilities
Under Base Case Scenario Conditions
Utility           Min Debt       Maximum          Minimum
Service      Debt Equity   Liquidity (current
Coverage                         Ratio)
Cumaral             0.9  (2nd year)   0.5 (1st year)    2.3  (I"5 year)
Nataga               1.3  (2nd year)  0.3 (lt year)    2.1  (It year)
Maicao               1.0  (2nd year)  0.8 (5th year)    1.5  (1" year)
ERAS                 0.8  (1" year)  0.3 (3nd year)    2.4 (3nd year)
Sincelejo            2.5  (I'tyear)   0.5 (3rd year)    1.1 (lryear)
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis The variables identified as conveying major risk to the project are presented in table
10. This analysis estimates the impact of a single variable changes in an static world. The variables
identified in table 10 were switched until the subproject analyzed presented no positive impact.



Page 77
Table 10. Risk Variables and their Impact and Risk Significance
Investment cost overrun           Direct impact on investment costs. Largely under management control.
Conveys a high risk to the financial results of the project. If they are higher
than 15% the NPV of business benefits becomes negative. In Maicao they
can not be higher than 2%. A similar situation happens with the NPV of
investors.
Operating cost overrun            Direct impact on operating costs. Largely under management control. They
convey a moderate risk for all the projects, but Maicao where they can not be
higher than 6%.
Subsidy from National and         Direct impact on return of business. Based on National or departmental
Departmental Governments          government's decisions and hence beyond management control. Conveys a
high risk to some projects, as Maicao, where it has to be at least 90% of the
assumed value, in Nataga 70% and in Cumaral 60%
Subsidy from Municipal Government  Direct impact on return of business. Based on Municipal authorities'
decisions and hence beyond management control. Conveys a high risk to
some projects as Maicao, where it has to be at least 93% of its assumed
values, and ERAS where it has to be at least 53% of its assumed values.
Revenue Collection rate           Direct impact on revenue collection. Largely under management control. It
I conveys a moderate risk to the project.
Besides these variables, a sensitivity analysis was carried out for variations in the discount rate from 12%
to 16% and 20%. Results show that when a discount rate of 16% is considered, the project is still viable
in all municipalities but Maicao, where subsidies would have to increase from 32% to 40% of investment
and equity would have to decrease from 17% to 12% of investment to make the project viable. When a
discount rate of 20% is considered, the business is viable only in Sincelejo, however, from the investors
point of view, the project is still viable in Cumaral and Nataga. In order to turn the project viable with
such an discount ratem, it is necessary to increase the average percentage of subsidies in medium cities
from 23% of investment to 31%. That will result in an IRR of 21.7% for both business and investors. It
is interesting to note however that the riskiest project, i.e, Maicao, was already awarded to a private
operator and that the investors requested a subsidy amount similar to the one calculated in the base case
scenario of that project.
Risk Analysis To enhance the accuracy of the financial analysis, the dynamic and uncertainties of the real
world were approximated through the use of Monte Carlo simulations using the Crystal Ball software.
This software measures the extent of various risks and their effect on the project, modeling a probable
distribution for each risk variable and the resulting outcome. Based on simulation of 1,000 trials the
model recalculates the results of the financial analysis by simultaneously changing each of the selected
variables. The assumed distribution of probabilities and their respective specifications for each variable
are presented in table 11.
Table 11: Risk Variables and their Distribution of Probability
Investment cost overrun           Triangular distribution. Minimum value: -10%, likeliest: 0%, and Maximum
value: 20%.
Operating cost overrun            Triangular distribution. Minimum value: -10%, likeliest: 0%, and Maximum
value: 20%.
Revenue Collection rate           Normal distribution for assumed values. Mean 0, standard deviation 10%
The financial risk analysis shows a very robust project for investors, in Cumaral, Sincelejo, and Eras,
where the probability of having a positive return is higher than 90%. In Nataga and Maicao those
probabilities are 58% and 42%, respectively, with a very interesting result that when all risks variable are
analyzed simultaneously in a dynamic world, the most important variable impacting the project's
financial cash flow is investment cost overrun, which is largely under management control.
From the business point of view, the probability of having positive return is almost risk free in Nataga,
Cumaral, Sincelejo, and Eras. In Maicao this probability is about 40%, however, the most important



Page 78
variable impacting the result is the investment cost overrun, which is under the control of management,
and makes the project less risky.
Table 12: Probability of Positive NPV Benefit
Business                    Investors
Mean Expected   Probability of   Mean Expected   Probability of
NPV        Positive NPV      NPV        Positive NPV
(US$000)     for business   (USS 000)    for investors
Nataga                             27            96%             2            58%
Cumaral                            158           97%             54           99%
Maicao                            (383)          41%            (126)         42%
Sincelejo                         2,196          95%           2,495          100%
ERAS                               703           87%            682           90%
V.   Conclusion and Recommendations
The results of the financial analysis demonstrate that none of the utilities included in the sample would be
financially viable after PSP without receiving a government investment subsidy. This confirms the basic
assumption of the project, that the water utilities of the target municipalities can become financially viable
only if they receive an adequate investment subsidy.
It was found that carrying out a financial analysis and generating financial projections for each
participating utility is an important an essential step in the evaluation of the operation of each utility by
the private sector and in determining its eligibility to participate in the project. During project
preparation, some lessons which helped to develop a procedure for the evaluation of interested utilities
were learned. These also helped to develop the methodology for determining the target tariffs which will
form the basis for negotiation of tariffs with the municipal authorities of each utility. Setting the right
target tariff is a key issue in conducting successful negotiation with the municipal authorities. The
following considerations need to be taken into account when establishing the right target tariffs:
*  The government is ready to provide a subsidy with a cap of US$ 500 per connection for small
municipalities and US$ 250 per connection for medium size cities.
*  The tariffs need to cover at least operation and maintenance costs in small municipalities and part of
the investments in medium size cities.
*  The tariffs must comply with the legislation regarding tariff structure and level of subsidies.
*  The tariff levels need to be socially acceptable, i.e., compatible with the capacity to pay.
*  Each municipal authority must participate in partial financing of investments by providing to the
utility a portion of its Law 60 transfers income.
*  The privatized utility must be financially viable and attractive to the private sector, i.e., the returns for
investors and for the business must be higher than 12% (in real terms).
The methodology which will be used during project implementation for determining the target tariffs, is
the following:
*  First the cost of providing the services will be estimated according to methodologies established by
the current guidelines of the CRA. The cost will be estimated based on the minimum cost investment
plan, projected demand and efficiency gains expected to be achieved during the operation contract
period. All the investment plan should be included in the cost estimates.
*  Based on the economic cost, preliminary tariffs for each category of customers and for each block of
consumption will be set. The guidelines on subsidies and overcharges established in Law 142 and the
resolutions of the CRA will be applied.



Page 79
* Estimation of the monthly bills for the poorest residential customers based on the first consumption
block will be carried out. A social assessment will be undertaken to establish the relation between the
monthly bills and the capacity to pay. If the bills are too high compared to the capacity to pay, an
additional subsidy will be incorporated. The subsidy will only be applied to investment costs and not
to operating costs.
* Financial model run will be carried out using the preliminary tariffs established earlier, which for
poor customers will include the assumed subsidy and for other customers will be free of subsidy.
* The subsidy could come from two different sources: (i) cross subsidy, corresponding to a subsidy
given to the poor which could be compensated partially or totally through the overcharges paid by the
wealthier customers; and (ii) direct subsidy, which corresponds to transfer from the government
provided to the utility to pay part of the investments. Under the current regulation requirements the
municipalities need to establish a special fund of the transfers resulting from cross subsidy
denominated "fondo de solidaridad". When the internal sources and the "fondo de solidaridad" do
not generate enough funds to cover investment cost, a direct subsidy or transfers from public
resources could be obtained. The first source will be municipal transfers from Law 60 resources, then
departmental or national government funds.
* If the utility does in fact require a direct subsidy, its amount will be calculated using the financial
model which generates financial projections under different scenarios based on variation of subsidies
(both government and Law 60) and tariffs. The required government subsidy will be the one which,
along with acceptable Law 60 contribution and acceptable tariff levels, would allow an adequate
financial return for the business and the investor, and will not be higher than the set cap. This entails
the application of an iterative processes based on successive financial model runs which will generate
the required set of results.
- The iterative analysis will generate for each utility the proposed target tariff and the proposed
investment subsidy. The PIU will negotiate with the municipal authorities the tariff which will be
included in the operation contract, utilizing as the starting position the target tariffs and the
corresponding government subsidy and Law 60 contributions resulting from the iterative process of
financial model runs. During the negotiation the financial model will be used to run additional
scenarios which may come up. If an agreement acceptable to the PIU (in terms of reasonable tariffs,
Law 60 contribution and government subsidy level) will be reached and later approved by the Bank,
the utility will be included in the project, however, if the municipal authorities will insist on
maintaining the tariffs too low and on requiring an unjustifiably high subsidy, the participation of the
utility in the project will be rejected.
As previously mentioned, the tariffs agreed upon during project preparation with the municipal authorities
of the sample utilities deviate in some aspects from regulation requirements. As part of the training of the
PIU in utilizing the methodology developed for setting the right tariffs, the agreed tariffs were adjusted
and a new set of tariffs has been calculated for the sample utilities, utilizing the developed methodology.
This entailed recalculating the tariff for each category of residential customers, and for each consumption
block in all the sample municipalities, as well as the required government subsidy in each case.
In order to calculate the tariffs, the values of the economic cost of providing the service were required.
According to CRA these correspond to the long run average cost (LRAC), including operating and
investment cost. The LRAC for investment is defined by the CRA as the sum of the current assets
appraised at their new brand value and the present value of future investments divided by the present
value of total demand. For medium size cities, the LRAIC was used as an approximation of the LRAC,
while for small municipalities, the LRAC values used were those estimates according to guidelines of the
CRA9. Based on the subsidy policy defined in the current regulation, the tariffs were calculated, in such a
9 Resolution CRA No 15 de 1996.



Page 80
way, that subsidies were applied only to low income strata and to the first block of consumption, and
overcharges, applied only to high income customers and high consumption blocks, do not exceed 20%.
The corrected proposed target tariffs for the sample utilities and their corresponding subsidies and
overcharges, calculated on the basis of the developed methodology (which will also be used during
project implementation) are presented in tables 13 and 14.
Table 13. New Proposed Tariffs for the Sample Utilities
Stratum I   Cumaral    Nataga    Maicao   Sincelejo        ERAS
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)  0.1         0.1        1.6        0.2         0.3
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)  0.2      0.1       0.4        0.3         0.3
Second block of consumption (2040m k(US$/m')    0.5      0.5        0.9        0.7         1.0
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m')  0,5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Stratum 2
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)  0.3         0.1        1.6        0.4         0.4
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)  0.2      0.2       0.5        0.3         0.4
Second block of consumption (20-40m 3(US$/m3)  0.5       0.5        0.9        0.7         1.0
Third Block of consumption (>40 m3 (US$/m3)  0.5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Stratum 3
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)  0.5         0.2        2.4        0.7         0.5
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m i) (US$/m')    0.3    0.2       0.8        0.6         0.7
Second block of consumption (2040m '(US$/m3)  0.5        0.5        0.9        0.7         1.0
Third Block of consumption (>40 ml (US$/ml)  0.5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Stratum 4
Monthly fixed charge (US$hhlmonth)  0.7         0.2        2.7        0.9         0.7
First Block of Consumption (1-20 mi') (US$/m')  0.5      0.5       0.9        0.7          1.0
Second block of consumption (2040m 3(USS/m3i)  0.5       0.5        0.9        0.7         1.0
Third Block of consumption (>40 m' (US$/m')    0.5     0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Stratum 5
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)  0.9         0.2        2.7        1.3         0.7
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m ') (US$/mn)  0.5     0.6        1.1        0.9          1.2
Second block of consumption (20-40m 3(USS/m3)  0.5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Third Block of consumption (>40 m' (US$/m')  0.5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Stratum 6
Monthly fixed charge (US$hh/month)  0.9         0.2        2.7        1.9         0.7
First Block of Consumption (1-20 m 3) (US$/m3)  0.5     0.6       1.1        0.9          1.2
Second block of consumption (20-40m '(US$1m3)  0.5       0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2
Third Block of consumption (>40 m' (US$/m')    0.5     0.6        1.1        0.9         1.2



Page 81
Table 14: Subsidies and Overcharges in the New Proposed Tariffs
Cumaral    Nataga    Maicao      Sincelejo     ERAS
Stratum I
First block (include fixed charge)    83%  99%      50%        69%           74%
Second Block (20- 40 m 3)    0%      0%         0%          0%           0%
Third block (>40 m )    -9%    -17%       -20%       -20%          -20%
Stratum 2
First block (include fixed charge)    77%  78%      40%        60%           65%
Second Block (20 - 40 m 3)    0%     0%         0%          0%           0%
Third block (>40 m)    -9%/0   -17%       -20%        -20%         -20%
Stratum 3
First block (include fixed charge)    44%  68%      15%         15%          30%
Second Block (20 - 40 m 3)    0%     0%         0%          0%           0%
Third block (>40 m)    -9%     -17%       -20%       -20%          -20%
Stratum 4
First block (include fixed charge)    0%  0%        0%          0%           0%
Second Block (20 - 40 m)    0%       0%         0%          0%           0%
Third block (>40 m)    -9%     -17%       -20%        -20%         -20%
Stratum 5
First block (include fixed charge)   -20%  -20%    -20%        -20%         -20%
Second Block (20 - 40 m 3)   -9%    -17%       -20%        -20%         -20%
Third block (>40 m)    -9%     -17%       -20%       -20%          -20%
Stratum 6
First block (include fixed charge)   -20%  -20%    -20%        -20%         -20%
Second Block (20 - 40 m 3)   -9%    -17%       -20%        -20%         -20%
Third block (>40 m)    -9%     - 17%      -20%       -20%          -20%
Comparing these proposed tariffs with the ones in the draft bidding documents (see table 3), the monthly
bill for low income strata will be lower for consumption in the first block, while for high income strata the
monthly bill will be higher.
The financial results calculated on the basis of the newly proposed tariffs show an improvement in
comparison to the results of the base case scenario (see table 15 for new results and compare to table 6 for
base case scenario results). The project (i.e., the total operation of the five sample utilities) will generate
an additional US$ 4 million, and investors will receive an additional return of US$ 5 million in profits.
The government will be also benefit from newly proposed set of tariffs and subsidies since the total
amount of subsidies it will need to provide will be reduced by US$ 5 million.
Table 15: NPV, IRR and Subsidies with the Newly Proposed Tariffs
Utility     Contrac    Results for Investors    Results for the Business      Subsidy
t                                                            Required
Period
NPV          IRR in      NPV            IRR in      NPV (OOOUS$)
(000 US$)   real         (000 US$)   real terms
terms
Cumaral    10 years        59         18.2%        203         24.9%            864
Nataga       10 year       21         36.5%         27         20.3%            145
Maicao      30 year       716         13.8%        809         13.5%           6,773
ERAS        20 year       1,362       17.8%        938         14.3%           2,509
Sincelejo    30 year     7,140        37.9%       7,246        26.6%             0
Total                    9,297       21.2%        9,224        18.3%          10,291
The subsidies under the new proposal account for 15% of investment in medium size cities and 68% in
small municipalities. In Sincelejo a government subsidy is not necessary (compare table 16 to table 7).



Page 82
The internal sources increased in medium size cities by 3% (from 36% to 39%), and in small
municipalities by 1%, from (4% to 5%).
Table 16: Source of Investment Financing Under the New Tariff Proposal
(Present Values US$ 000)
Maicao   ERMS   Sincelejo  Nataga  Cumaral I Total   Mediaum   Small
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I      cities   cities
Investment   21,517   14,83    24,215     244     1,249    62,099   60,606   1,493
Financing Sources      _ _
Subsidy  6,773    2,509      -       145      864      10,291 T  9,282    1,008
Capital Injection  3,698    1,849  2,694     20       174     8,436     8,242    194
LT debt 7,403    5,455     6,449     39       173      19,518    19,307    211
Internal sources 3,643    5,060  15,072     41       38      23,854    23,775    79
Total     21,517   14,873    24,215    244      1,249    62,099    60,606   1,493
Financing Sources (%)
Subsidy  31%     17%       0%       59%       690/o     17%      15%     68%
Capital Injection  17%   12%      11%       8%       14%       14%      14%      13%
Loan  34%      37%       27%      16%       14%      31%      32%      14%
Internal sources  17%   34%      62%       17%       3%       38%      390/o    5%
Total      100%    100%      100%      100%     100%      100%     100%    100%
The required subsidy for small municipalities is about US$ 300 per connection or about US$ 60 per
person served. In medium size cities, excluding Maicao', the required subsidy is about US$ 100 per
connection or about US$ 20 per person (table 17).
Table 17: Income and Subsidv per Connection Under the New Tariff Pr posal
Maicao   ERAS    Sincelelo     Nataga    Cumaral
Current Population                   117,519  121,599   227,104      2,061      9,931
Income per household (US$/hh-month)    191     161        188         91         150
Subsidy per connection (US$/conn)     275       98         -          282        324
Subsidy per capita (US$/pp)            48       19                    60         65
Based on the analysis presented it can be concluded that the subsidy cap in terms of percentage of
investment should be about 70% for small municipalities and about 15% for medium size cities. When
defined in tersm of subsidy per connection the subsidy cap should be about US$ 500 per connection for
small municipalities and about US$ 250 per connection for medium size cities.
Expected Financial Indicators Values Required to Maintain the Financial Health of the Utilities
The financial indicators values which will be required to maintain the privately operated utilities
financially viable are: (i) debt-equity ratio of less than 1; (ii) liquidity ratio of more than 1; (iii) starting
debt-service coverage of more than 0.8, increasing gradually to 1.3 by the end of the fifth year of
operation; and (iv) starting working ratio of less than 1, decreasing gradually to 0.6 by the end of the fifth
'0 Maicao presents the same amount of required subsidy as in the base case scenario. The reason is that Maicao will
have a problem of rationing of water even after the project is implemented, and at the same time there is a program
to install domestic meters for most of the customers. Given the insufficient supply, people consume less than thcy
require and therefore they are charged for a low consumption. Under this situation, changes in tariff do not have a
big impact on billed consumption neither on revenues.



Page 83
year of operation. These financial indicators and their proposed values will be included in the operation
contracts as target values which the utilities need to achieve under private operation.



Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Eras
2001   2002T20    0420    0620    08   0921    01 21    05 22
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Revenues
Water                                               1,153  1,506  1,909  2,585  2,694  2,762  2,832  2,904  2,977  3,053  3,114  3,176  3,371  3,723
Sewerage                                             274   388   514   780   852   916  1,011  1,037  1,063  1,090  1,112  1,134  1,204  1,329
Revenues (Total)                                        1,427  1,894  2,423  3,365  3,545  3,678  3,843  3,940  4,040  4,143 4,226  4,310  4,575  5,052
Operating Income                                         418   912  1,381  2,243  2,377  2,478  2.599  2,677  2,747  2,818  2,876  2,935  3,120  3,453
Net Income                                               187   422   547  1,044  1,088  1,079  1,128  1,189  1,183  1,134   930  1,003  1,378  1,858
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                                         303   666  1,063  1,647  1,756  1,860  1,953  1,997  2,069  2,166 2,333  2,352  2,332  2,402
Subsidies                                               1,116  1,463  1,450   657   682   708   735   756        0     0      0      0     0       0
Borrowings                                                 0   732  1,717      0   653   452       0      0  1,319  1,964   698      0     0       0
Equity Investments                                      1,134  1,080    0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0     0      0       0
Total Sources                                        2,552  3,940  4,229  2.305  3,091  3,020  2,689  2,754  3,388  4,131  3,031  2,352  2,332  2,402
Capital Expenditures                                       1 5,867  3,524  1,240  2,694  2,641  1,902  1,869  2,731  3,512  1,774   936   314    105
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)                      965  -315   640   -15   -14  -110   126  -127   255   -67   159   -31    78              28
Debt Service                                             357   230   366   572   381   460   543   478   498   655  1,151  1,164   676    218
Dividend                                                 168      8   331   497    22    22   235   527   151    23    98   276  1,378  1,858
Total Applications                                   1,491  5,789  4.860  2,294  3,083  3,013  2,806  2,747  3,635  4,123  3,182  2,345  2,446  2,209
Change in Cash                                         1,061 -1,849  -631    11      8      7  -117      6  -248       8  -151      7  -114    193
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                          2,527   279   567   543   518   406   456   331   443   375   441   405   528  1,134    2
Less Current Liabilities                               315    76   238    81    83    84   117    86   151    90   131    94   119    116
Net Fixed Assets                                          57  5,645  8,928  9,836 12,021 14,058 15,350 16,558 18,577 21,258 22,193 22,308 20.849 18,806    t
Total Assets                                         2,268  5,848  9,258 10,298 12,456 14,380 15,690 16,803 18,868 21,542 22,503 22,619 21,259 19,824
Debt                                                       0   732  2,344  2.003  2,341  2,411  1,995  1,614  2,582  4,038  3,990  3,206  1,537  45
Equity                                                  2,268  5,116  6,913 8,296 10,115 11,969 13,695 15.189 16,286 17,504 18,513 19,413 19,722 19,779
Total Liabilities and Equity                         2,268  5,848  9,258 10,298 12,456 14,380 15,690 16,803 18.868 21,542 22,503 22,619 21,259 19,824
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of Revenue                       29.3%  48.2%  57.0%  66.7%  67.1% 67.4% 67.6% 67.9% 68.0% 68.0% 68.1%  68.1%  68,2%  68.3%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                             13.1% 22.3% 22.6% 31.0% 30.7%  29.3% 29.3%  30.2%  29.3%  27.4% 22.0%  23,3% 30.1%  36.8%
Retum on Average Invested Capital                               11.4%   9.1%  13.7%  11.8%   9.8%   8.8%   8.2%   7.5%   6.7%   5.2%   5.3%   7.0%   9.4%
Debt Service Coverage                                       -1.9   4.3   1.2   2.9   4.6   4.3   3.4   4.4   3.6   3.4   1.9   2.0   3.3   10.9
% of Total Capital Expenditures financed                        12.8%   1.6%  88.0%  51.5%  57.2%  67.6%  88.1%  48.2%  44.9%  57.7%  100%  100%   100%
by Internal Sources
Current Ratio                                              8.01   3.67   2.38  6.71   6.25   4.85   3.91   3.86   2.92   4.17   3.36   4.33   4.45   9.74
Debt as % of Equiy                                          0.0   0.1   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1    0.0
Main Efficiency Ratios
Operating Ratio (incl. Depreciations)                      71%   65%   59%   46%   47%   49%/o  48%/  48%   50%   52%   52%   51%   47%    42%
Working Ratio (excd. depreciations)                        71%   52%   43%   33%   33%   33%   32%   32%   332%   32%    %   32%   32%    32%
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost                              53%   50%o  50%   51%/  51%  52%   53%   53%   53%   53%   53%   53%   53%    53%



Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Maicao
2001  | 2002 | 2003 | 2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009 | 2010 | 2011   2012   2015   2020
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Revenues
Water                                              1,247  1,350  1,426  1,479 2,059  2,180  2,282  2,385  2,489  2,595  2,624  2,653  3,314   3.468
Sewerage                                            595   608   611   606   850   922   985  1,051  1,119  1,189   1,213  1,238  1,585   1,734
Revenues (Total)                                       1,842  1,959  2,037  2,086  2,910  3,102  3,267  3,435  3.608  3,784  3,837  3,891  4,899   5,202
Operating Income                                       1,236  1,330  1,407  1,457  2,288  2,457  2,586  2,720 2,849  2,986  3,025  3,060  3,969   4,139
Net Income                                              569   586   588   495   774   633   674   810   927  1,056  1,134  1,194  1,447   1,502
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                                        911   995  1,070  1,169  1,843  2,085  2,190  2,250  2,314  2,380  2,377  2,379  3,141    3,278
Subsidies                                               452  1,333  1,305   492   496   496   496   496   496   496  3,996  3,996    496         496
Borrowings                                              718      0  1,695  2,001  4,746  1,630    45    0   141      0      0       0  5,108       0
Equity Investments                                    2,268  2,160     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0      0       0      0       0
Total Sources                                       4,348 4,487  4,071  3,662  7,085 4,211  2,731  2,746  2,951  2.876  6,373  6,375  8,745   3,775
Capital Expenditures                                  2,533 2,784  3,840  3,033  6,105  2,866  1,424  1,478  1,919  1,591   1,177  1,421  7,713   1,454
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)                    1,964  1,117   533   136   317   -26  -126  -181  -209  -217   -152    -81    41           35
Debt Service                                            727   984   558   509   743  1,304  1,360  1,251  1,142  1,061    965    876    859   1,119
Dividend                                                512   528   325   117   236    63    67   193    93   435   1,020  1,075    165   1,195
Total Applications                                  5.736  5,413  5,256  3,795  7,400 4,207  2,726  2,741  2,945  2,870  3,010  3,290  8,779   3,802
Change in Cash                                       -1,388  -926 -1,185  -133  -315      4      5     5      6     6  3,363  3,085    -33       -28
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                          777  1,044   395   392   407   387   350   303   254   205  3,528  6,429    143          159
Less Current Liabilities                             514   305   159    60   105    26    28    29    31    33           33     34     48      53
Net Fixed Assets                                      3,231  6,280 10,007 12.637 18,097 20,095 20,567 21,051 21,935 22,498 22,717 23,239 37,854  38,449
Total Assets                                        3,495  7,019 10,242 12,969 18,400 20,456 20,889 21,325 22,158 22,669 26,212 29,634 37,948  38.555   (
Debt                                                    718   638  2,260 4,004  8,290  8,968  7.951  6,966 6,196  5.342  4,555  3,830  8,327   3,365
Equity                                                2,776  6,380  7,983  8,965 10,110 11,488 12,938 14,359 15,962 17,328 21,657 25,804 29,621  35,189
Total Liabilities and Equity                        3,495  7,019 10,242 12,969 18,400 20,456 20,889 21,325 22,158 22,669 26,212 29,634 37,948  38,555
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of Revenue                      67.1%  67.9%  69.1%  69.8%  78.6%  79.2%  79.2%  79.2%  79.0%  78.9%  78.8%  78.7%  81.0%   79.6%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                            30.9%  29.9%  28.9%  23.7%  26.6%  20.4%  20.6%  23.6%  25.7%  27.9%  29.5%  30.7%  29.5%   28.9%
Return on Average Invested Capital                             12.8%   8.2%   5.8%  8.1%   5.9%   5.5%   5.9%   6.1%   6.3%   5.8%   5.0%   5.1%    4.3%
Debt Service Coverage                                     -1.4  -0. 1   1.0   2.0   2.1   1.6   1.7   1.9   2.2   2.4    2.6    2.8    3.6          2.9
% of Total Capital Expenditures financed                  0%    0%    0%  17.3%  12.8%  28.2%  67.1%  79.8%  72.0%  96.5%   100%   100%   100%    100%
by Internal Sources
Current Ratio                                             1.51   3.42   2.48  6.53   3.89  14.67  12.54  1032   8.15   6.13 105.82 186.69   2.95    3.01
Debt as % of Equity                                        0.3   0.1   0.3    04    0.8   0.8   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3    0.2    0.1    0.3          0 1
Main Efficiency Ratos
Operating Ratio (incl. Depreciations)                     39%   43%   49%   53%   46%   46%   45%   44%   44%   43%    42%    42%    47%           44%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)                       33%   32%   31%   30%   21%   21%   21%   21%   21%   21%    21%    21%    19%           20%
Personnel CostUOperating Cost                             71%   69%   69%   68%   66%   66%   66%   66%   66%   65%    66%    66%    65%           65%



Financial Summary for Municipal Water Concession of Sincele'o
2001       2002  | 2003  | 2004   2005   2006  | 2007  2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011   2012    2015  | 2020
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Revenues
Water                                       3,067    3,267   3,447  3,604   3,732    3,864  4,002  4,144  4,292  4,445  4,603  4,767   5,294  6,306
Sewerage                                     1,283    1,361    1,430  1,489  1,536    1,601  1,670  1,740  1,814  1,890  1,969  2,052   2,318  2,831
Revenues (Total)                                4,350     4,628   4,877  5,093  5,268    5,466  5,672  5,885  6,106  6,335  6,572  6,818   7,612  9,137
Operating Income                                3,002     3,234   3,448  3,639  3,803    3,952  4,109  4,272  4,442  4,614  4,800  4,987   5,590  6,719
Net Income                                      1,705     1,834    1,845  1,807   1,808    1,859  1,948  2,047  2,135  2,176   1,878   1,466   2,045  3,167
Funds Statement items
Internal Sources                                2,041     2,200   2,405  2,615  2,777    2,897  3,003  3,111  3,232  3,379   3,723  4,130   4,413  4,922
Subsidies                                           0        0        0      0       0       0      0      0      0     0  4,176 5,303          0      0
Borrowings                                          0     1,738   1,770  1,175    408      309      0      8   238  1,180   3,863  2,540        0      0
Equity Investments                              2,268      864        0      0       0       0      0      0      0     0       0      0        0      0
Total Sources                                 4,308    4,802   4,175  3,791   3,184    3,206  3,003  3,119  3,469  4,559  11,763 11,973   4,413  4,922
Capital Expenditures                            1,420     3,771    3,479  3,303  2,696    2,622  2,233  2.546  2,957  4,007  10.897 10,321    1,836  2,680
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)             2,227      982      127   -176   -297    -208  -151  -135  -133   -76    -43    -24            -4      0
Debt Service                                      824      894      587    620    743      745   728   657   592   573    860  1,635   1,350    645
Dividend                                        1,534      528      101     36     36       37   183    41    43    44         38     29   1,218  1,581
Total Applications                            6,005    6,175   4,294  3,783  3,178    3,196  2,993  3,108  3,459  4,548  11,752 11,961    4,400  4,906
Change in Cash                                 -1,696    -1,373    -119      8      7       10    10    10    10    11         11     12       13     16
Balance Sheet Items                                                                                                                                             X
Current Assets                                    777      450      452    404    334      288   256   229   204   193    188    188          201    240
Less Current Liabilities                       679       372     161    132    133       137   140   144   148   152    156    161         174    208
Net Fixed Assets                                2,339     6,255   9,418 12,056  13,817   15,506 16,819 18.405 20,332 23,233 32,605 41,031  40,427 44,221
Total Assets                                  2,438    6,333   9,708 12,328 14,018   15,658 16,934 18,489 20,388 23,273  32,637 41,059  40,454 44,253
Debt                                                0     1,738   3,260  3,954  3,750    3,440  2,826  2,271  1,992  2,665  5,897  7,307   3,998    593
Equity                                          2,438     4,595   6,449  8,374  10,267   12,218 14,108 16,219 18,396 20,608 26,740 33,751   36,456 43,660
Total Liabilities and Equity                  2,438    6,333   9,708 12,328 14,018   15,658 16,934 18,489 20,388 23,273  32,637 41,059  40,454 44,253
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of Revenue                69.0%    69.9%   70.7%  71.5%  72.2%    72.3%  72.4%  72.6%  72.8%  72.8%   73.0%  73.1%   73.4%   73.5%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                      39.2%    . 39.6%   37.8%  35.5%  34.3%    34.0%  34.3%  34.8%  35.0%  34.3%   28.6%  21.5%   26.9%  34.7%
Return on Average Invested Capital                          52.2%   33.4%  24.4%  19.4%    16.5%  14.8%  13.5%  12.3%  11.2%    7.9%   4.8%    5.7%    7.4%
Debt Service Coverage                               -0.2      1.4      3.9    4.5    4.1      4.2   4.3   4.9   5.7   6.0    4.4    2.5          3.3    7.6
% of Total Capital Expenditures financed            0%      8.6%   48.6%  65.7%  86.5%    90,0%  100%  100%   94%   72%  26.7%  24.4%    100%   100%
by Internal Sources
Current Ratio                                       1.15     1.21    2.80   3.07   2.51      2.11   1.82   1.59   1.38   1.27    1.20   1.17    1.15   1.15
Debt as % of Equity                                  0.0      0.4      0.5    0.5    0.4      0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.2    0.2          0.1    0.0
Main Efficiency Ratios
Operating Ratio (incl. Depreciations)               33%      35%      38%    39%    40%      41%   41%   42%   42%   44%    50%    54%          49%    44%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)                 31%      30%      29%    29%0   2 28%     8 28%   28%   27%   27%   27%    27%    27%       27%    26%
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost                       39%,    39%        9     39     38%      39      9    3% 3%    0             0%    4%       41      1



Financial Summary for Munici  Water Concession of Cumaral
2001      2002    2003 1 2004    2005    2006   2007   2008    2009          2010
Forecast
Incorne Statement Items
Revenues
Water                                                    101     118    135       152      207     212    218    224        229      235
Sewerage                                                  43      50      56       64      87       89      91     94        96       99
Revenues (Total)                                             144     168    191       216      294     301    309    317        326      334
Operating Income                                              41      60      81      105      184     191    200    207        216      223
Net Income                                                    -3      -24      1       20       72      82      93    100       108      114
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sources                                               39      58      79       92      142     144    146    150        154       158
Subsidies                                                    454     592                0        0       0       0      0         0        0
Borrowings                                                   258       3       0        0        0       0       0      0         0        0
Equity Investments                                            45     173       0        0        0       0       0      0         0        0
Total Soutces                                             796      825     79        92     142      144    146    150       154       158
Capital Expenditures                                         692     814       0        0        0       0       0      0         0        0
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)                          110       0      -5        0       15       12     11     10        10        10
Debt Service                                                  41      63      35       32       35      35      31     28        26       24
Dividend                                                       0       0       1       18       65      74      84     90        97      103
Total Applications                                        843      877     30        50     115      121    125    128       132       136
Change in Cash                                               -46     -52     48        43      27       23     21      22       22        22
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                                76      21      67      106      145     174    199    222        244      265
Less Current Liabilities                                   33        6      6         6      10        9      9       9        9         9      t
Net Fixed Assets                                             712    1,481   1,444    1,400   1,351    1,307  1,269  1,231     1,196    1,162      %
Total Assets                                              754    1,496  1,504    1,500   1,486    1.472  1,459  1,445       1,431    1,418      X
Debt                                                         258     232    205       180      158     136    117      99        83       67
Equity                                                       496    1,264  1,299    1,320   1,329   1,336  1,342  1,346       1,349    1,350
Total Liabilities and Equity                              754    1,496  1,504    1,500   1,486    1,472  1,459  1,445       1,431    1,418
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of Revenue                           28.3%    35.7%  42.6%    48.8%   62.5%   63.5%  64.5%  65.3%       66.2%    66.7%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                                 -1.9%   -14.3%   0.7%     9.3%   24.6%    27.3%  30.0%  31.6%      33.1%    34.2%
Return on Average Invested Capital                                    -2.7%   0.1%      1.5%    5.5%    6.2%   6.9%    7.5%      8.0%      8.5%
Debt Service Coverage                                          -1.7     0.9    2.4       2.9      3.6     3.8    4.4    5.0        5.6      6.2
% of Total Capital Expenditures financed                       0%       0%   100%     100%    100%    100%   100%   100%        100%      100%
by Intemal Sources
Current Ratio                                                  2.28    3.45  10.95    17.21    14.39    18.67  22.21   25.28     27.94    30.27
Debt as % of Equity                                             0.5     0.2    0.2       01       0.1     0.1    0.1    0.1        0.1      0.0
Main Efficiency Ratios
Operating Ratio (incl. Depreciations)                          92%    101%    88%       77%     56%      52%    49%    47%        45%      44%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)                            72%     64%    57%       51 %    38%      37%    35%    35h       340/o    33%
Personnel CostUOperating Cost                                  67%    67%    67%       661%    66%      66%    66%    r 66%     65%/     66%



Financial Summar for Municipal Water Concession of Nataga
_  _   .  ~   2001    | 2002  1 2003_1 -2004  1 2005    2006    2007   2008    2009  1 2010
Forecast
Incorne Statement Items
Revenues
Water                                                       21      22      23        24      24       25      25      25        26      26
Sewerage                                                     9       9       9        10      10       10      10      10        10      10
Revenues (Total)                                                30      31      32        33      34       34      35      35        36      37
Operating Income                                                16      18      19        19       20      20      21      22        22      23
Net Income                                                       2       1       3         4       5        6       7       8         9       9
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                                                1S      17      17        17      17       17      17      17        17      17
Subsidies                                                     181       30       0         0       0        0       0       0         0       0
Borrowings                                                      51       0       0         0       0        0       0       0         0       0
Equity Investments                                              18       4       0         0       0        0       0       0         0       0
Total Sources                                               265       51      17       17       17       17     17      17        17       17
Capital Expenditures                                          243       36       0         0       0        0       0       0         0       0
Working Capial Increase (Decrease)                              23       0       -2       -1        0       0       0       1         1        1
Debt Service                                                     9      13       7         6       6        5       5       5         4       4
Dividend                                                         2        1      2         3        4       6       6       7         8       8
Total Applications                                          277       49       8        9       10       11     12      12        13       13
Change in Cash                                                 -11       2       9        8        8        6       5      5         4        4
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                                  14      16      24        31      37       41      45     48        51       53          X
Less Current Liabilities                                      7        1       1        1        1        1      1       1         1        1
Net Fixed Assets                                              243      273    266        257     247      239    232    224        218      211         ID
Total Assets                                                250      288    289       287      283     279    275    271         267      263
Debt                                                            51      45      40        35      31       26      23      19        16      13
Equity                                                        200      243    249        252     253      253    252    252        251      250
Total Liabilities and Equity                                250      288    289       287      283     279    275    271         267      263
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of Revenue                            54.9%    56.2%  57.5%      58.2%   58.9%   59.5%  60.2%  60.8%    61.4%   62.0%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                                   7.0%     4.3%    8.2%     11.2%    13.7%    18.2%  20.5%   22.3%    24.1%    25.7%
Retum on Average Invested Capital                                       0.6%    1.1%      1.5%     1.8%    2.5%    2.8%    3.1%      3.4%    3.7%
Debt Service Coverage                                            -1.0     1.3    2.7        2.9     3.1      3.2    3.4    3.6         3.9     4.2
% of Total Capital Expenditures financed                        -0%      12%   100%      100%    100%    100%   100%   100%         100%    100%
by Intemal Sources
Current Ratio                                                     2.1    16.2   25.1       32.0    38.1    41.4   41.7   42.7        43.9    45.3
Debt as % of Equity                                              0.3      0.2    0.2        0.1     0.1      0.1    0.1    0.1        0.1      0.1
Main Efficiency Ratios
Operating Ratio (incl. Depreciations)                           79%      79%    75%       72%      70%      64%    61%    59%        57%      56%
Working Ratio (excl. depreciations)                             45%      44%    43%        42%     41%      40%    40%    39%        39%      38%
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost                                   53%      54%    54%       54%      53%      53%    53%    53%        52%      52%



Page 89
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement
Introduction: The selection of all operators in the municipalities participating in the project, both for
medium size cities and for small municipalities, will be carried out through a competitive bidding
process, regardless of the financing source of investments in water and sanitation infrastructure. A
prior review would be required for the award of each Constructor/Operator contract in small
municipalities and for each Operator contract in medium size cities. The principles of the bidding
process and selection criterion for a Constructor/Operator of a utility in a small municipality are
presented in Annex 16. Model bidding documents and construction/operation contract for this type of
utilities were submitted to the Bank for review and have been cleared. The selection of a
Constructor/Operator for a certain municipality means inter alia that the procurement of goods and
works for this municipality have been completed. The principles of the bidding process and selection
criterion for an Operator of a utility in a medium size city are presented in Annex 15. Model bidding
documents and operation contract for this type of utilities were submitted to the Bank for review. The
procurement of goods and works described in this Annex refer to goods and works for medium size
municipalities and to goods under the technical assistance components.
According to the project financing plan, the project is based on three financing sources: (i) private
sector and municipalities (US$ 15 million); (ii) government (US$ 15 million); and (iii) Bank loan
funds (US$ 40 million). Although the activities financed by each source form together one project,
they do not overlap. i.e., each activity is financed by only one source and none of the project's
activities is financed by two or more sources. Consequently, each of the financing sources can use
the procurement procedures it finds fit, without interfering with the procedures of the other sources.
While carrying out the investments it committed to, the private sector will use its own procurement
procedures in accordance with the regulations authorized in Colombia for the that sector.
Procurement of goods and works financed under counterpart funds provided by the government may
either follow Law 80 guidelines (the Colombian procurement law) or Bank procurement guidelines.
The PTU expressed its intention to apply the Bank guidelines for procurement activities financed by
counterpart funds and the project team will help the PIU in doing that.
Procurement of activities financed by the Bank loan funds would be carried out in accordance with
World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January
1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Works, Goods and Services financed under the project: The project is demand driven, so it is not
known at present which municipalities will participate in it, what specific works will be carried out
and what will be the procurement packages. However, it is known what type of works, goods and
services will be financed under the project. For project description refer to Annex 2.
Under component A (investments in medium size cities) the private sector and municipalities will
finance water and sewerage works in medium size cities which would include installation of water
and sewerage networks, pumping stations, water storage tanks, water meters, water and sewerage
treatment plants etc.



Page 90
Under sub-component Al the Bank will finance in medium size cities the same type of works
financed by the private sector and described above. The works financed by the Bank and the private
sector will be complementary and will constitute the infrastructure necessary to ensure the provision
of water and sewerage services in the participating medium size cities.
Out of the government counterpart contribution of US$15 million, about US$ 5 million will be used
to finance payment of taxes related to project execution. An amount of US$ 0.5 million will be
deposited in the Fondo Nacional de Garantias, to ensure credit guarantees for small entrepreneurs
awarded with operation contracts in small municipalities, and an amount of up to US$ 1 million may
be used to finance voluntary separation of utility employees. The remaining amount of about US$ 9.5
million will be used under Aub-component A3 to finance Constructor-Operator schemes in about 10
small municipalities in regions other than the Caribbean coast.
Under sub-component A5, the private sector and municipalities will finance a small portion of the
municipal water and sewerage infrastructure in participating small municipalities. The Bank will
finance the major part of the mentioned infrastructure in about 15 small municipalities, which will
include small scale water and sewerage networks, pumping stations, water storage tanks, water and
sewerage treatment plants etc. As mentioned, the government will finance similar type of works in
about 10 additional small municipalities.
Consulting services will be financed under components B, C and D. These will include carrying out
environmental and rural sector studies, structuring of the PSP processes for the participating
municipalities, consulting services for supervision of project works, financing the PIU staff, all of
whom are consultants, and financing training activities to the PIU staff and to the implementation
units at each participating municipal utility.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement of the goods, works and
services mentioned above are described below. The estimated amounts for each method, are
summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table
B.
Procurement of Works
Works contracts in medium size cities (sub-component Al) financed by Bank proceeds estimated to
cost more than US$ 4 million equivalent per contract would be procured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 4 million equivalent per contract and US$ 350,000 or more,
up to an aggregate of US$ 15 million, would be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Small works
estimated to cost less than US$ 350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 2 million,
may be procured locally, on the basis of price quotations from at least three qualified contractors,
received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Works contracts in small municipalities (sun-component A2) financed by Bank proceeds and
government counterpart funds, each estimated to cost about US$ I million on the average, would be
procured using specific model bidding documents which have been developed for the Constructor-
Operator concept. These bidding documents are based on the Bank's standard bidding documents of
small works and the procedures and commitments of the execution of works are practically identical
to the ones defined in the SBDs for small works (in addition to which the documents contain the
requirements regarding the operation of the utility). It is estimated that about 15 contracts of this type
would be financed by the Bank and about 10 by government counterpart funds.



Page 91
Procurement of Goods
Goods under components A and D may include pipes, pumping equipment, process control
equipment, water and wastewater treatment equipment, water meters, computer equipment and
software, and office equipment. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into
bidding packages of more than $250,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures, using
Bank-issued SBDs. Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract and of US$
50,000 or more, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million equivalent may be procured using NCB
procedures and standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Contracts for goods
which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, may be procured using shopping
(National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be hired to carry out environmental and rural sector studies, preparation of
PSP processes, supervision of works and project management activities by the PIU staff.
Consultingfirms: All studies by consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured utilizing QCBS procedures. Studies by consulting firms estimated to
cost less than US$ 200,000 would be procured utilizing Fixed Budget Selection. The short list of
consulting firms for services estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent may comprise
entirely national firms, in accordance with the provision of paragraph 2.7 of the consultant guidelines.
Studies by consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 would be procured utilizing
Consultants qualification (CQ) procedures.
Individual Consultants: Some consulting services, including those of the PIU staff and of specialized
advisory services, would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of the procedures for
selection of individual consultants per section V, paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 4.5 million equivalent.
Prior Review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to
this prior review of individual procurement actions, the procurement plan of the PIU will be reviewed
and approved by the Bank annually.
Procurement Capacity Assessment: A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during
preparation. The PIU includes a group of staff trained to handle procurement processes following the
Bank procurement guidelines, as it managed a previous Bank project (Loan 3336-CO). However,
they handled mostly hiring of consulting services. It was agreed that an expert in Bank procurement
procedures be hired for the PIU before first disbursement. In addition, PIU staff as well as staff of
subprojects implementation units of component A need to update their skills to be able to follow
Bank procurement guidelines. The project management component includes financing for such
activities. An independent annual procurement audit will be carried out to review procuremet
activities.
Procurement Plan: Since the subprojects are demand driven, it is impossible to provide an exact
procurement plan and implemantation plan for this project. However typical procurement plans for
the two types of the main activities under the project (small municipalities and medium size cities)
can serve as a useful planning tool and are provided in the following diagrams.



Page 92
Typical Procurement Plan for a Small Municipality
0  .   2002           1 2003                !2004
ID  i Task Name                                 Duration Qtr 1 LQtr 24 Qtr_|Qtr4tQtrilQtr2jQtr3 ltr4i Qtr i;
1   Selection Consulting Firn to Prepare PSP    41 days
\  2  |   Prepare request for expression of interests  6 days
3       Publication and submission of letters of interf  30 days
4       Evaluation and preparation of short list  5 days
5   Hiring Consulting Firm to Prepare PSP       109 days
T  6  'i  Prepare TOR and LOI                     7 days
No Objection request                      5 days
8       Publication of RFP                        10 days
|  9    Submission of proposals                  30 days
10      Evaluation of proposals                   15 days
11      No Objection request                       5 days
12       Negotiations                              7 days
13      No Objection request                       5 days
1 4      Finalizing legal procedures              15 days
15      Signing contract                          10 days
16   Structuring of PSP Processes               222 days _
17      Phase I - POI, design and capacity to pay stL  75 days
i8      Phase il - Financial modeiing             20 days
1 9  I   Phase Ilii - Prepare bidding documents and c    7 days
20       No Objection request                      5 days
21       Publication of announcement              10 days
22  I   Submission of proposals                   60 days
23  .   Evaluation of proposals                   20 days
24  i   No Objection request                       5 days
25  1   Signing of PSP contract                   20 days
26 l Execution of Works of a Small Municipality    247 days _
27       Payment of advance and initiation of works  7 days
t 28  t1   Execution of works                    240 days                                             I _  .



Page 93
Typical Procurement Plan for a Medium Size City
1 i   | 2002         T12003                 ! 2004
ID  Task Name                            I Duration Qtr 1Qtr air  Qt ilr   i i Qtr'  - tr 3' Qtr 4, Qtr i . tr 2.
1   Short Listing Consulting Firms         41 days
2  i,  Prepare expression of interest        6 daysh
3       Publication and submission of letters o   30 days
4       Evaluation and Preparation of Short Li.   5 days   j
5   Hiring Consulting Firm to prepare PSP   125 days    _                                                 :
6       Prepare TOR and LOI                  7 days
7  .   No Objection request                  5 days
8  |   Publication of RFP                   10 days
9~ | Submission of Proposals                30 day,,
10  1   Evalaution of proposals             15 day 
11      No Objection request                 5 days
Negotiations                         7 daysi
13  i   No Objection request                 5 days I
14  t   Finanlizing legal procedures        15 daysK
15 '    Signing contract                    10 dayE 
16  Structuring of PSP Process             190 days| _
17  i   Phase I - POI and Capacity to pay stud   45 daygi
18j   Phase II - Financial Modeling         20 day-,
19  I   Phase IlIl - Pepare bidding documents;   7 days
20      No Objection request                 3 days;
21      Publication of Annoncement          10 daysE
22  l   Submission of prposals              60 dayst                   i
23  X   Evaluation of proposals             20 days
24      No Objection request                 5 daysh
25  t   Signing of PSP contract             20 dayEj                           _
26  'Execution of typical project financed wo  268 days,
27      Design                              30 days
28      Prepare bidding documents            7 days
29      No Objection request                 5 days|
3 0  j   Publicaction                       10 dayEs
31  X   Submission of proposals             30 dayEs
32      Evaluation of proposals             10 daysj
33  .   No Objection request                 5 daysi
34      Signing contract                    20 daysE
35      Execution of work                  150 days1



Page 94
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method1                    Total Cost
ICB         NCB         Other2       N.B.F3
1. Works                          7.63       21.12         2.15       16.00          46.90
(7.10)     (19.80)      (2.00)      (0.0           (28.90)
2. Goods                          0.90        2.00         0.00       12.00           14.90
(0.90)      (2.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)          (2.90)
3. Services and Training                                   8.20                        8.20
(8.20)           _         (8.20)
Total
8.53       23.12       10.35       28.00           70.00
________________________ (8.00)     (19.70)      (10.20)      (0.00          (40.00)
I/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project implementation unit, training and technical assistance
services
3/  Woks and goods financed by government counterpart funds, municipalities and private sector



Page 95
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                              Selection  Method
Expenditure Category
QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Costl
A. Firms              4.00       0.00      0.30     0.00     0.20      0.00     0.00      4.50
(4.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)   (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (4.50)
B. Individuals        0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      3.50     0.00      3.50
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.50)   (0.00)    (3.50)
Total    4.00       0.00      0.30     0.00     0.20      3.50     0.00      8.00
(4.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)   (0.00)    (0.20)    (3.50)   (0.00)    (8.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.



Page 96
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category              Threshold            Method             Prior Review
.(US $ thousands)                         (US $ millions)
1. Works
>4,000     ICB                           All/8.0
350-4,000  NCB                  All Constuctor-
Operator/23.0
<350     Quotations (at least 3)      None/0
2. Goods
>250     ICB                            All/1 .0
50-250  NCB                           All/2.0
<50     International and            None/0
____________________ __  National Shopping,
3. Services
(a) Consulting Firms               >200     QCBS                           All/4.0
<200     Fixed Budget Selection         All/0.3
<50     Consultant            Review of TORs
Qualification                only/0.2
(b) Individual Consultants          >50     According to Section V         All/0.5
of Consultants'
Guidelines
<50     According to Section V  Review of TORs
of Consultants'              only/3.0
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      38.8
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Page 97
Disbursement
Disbursement: During the first year disbursements will be based on submission of SOEs. After
that the loan will be disbursed based on quarterly project management reports (PMRs) up until
closing date. Effectiveness is expected to be reached on November 2001 and closing date would be
June 30, 2007. The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Table C. The loan will be disbursed
against (i) implementation of works; (ii) purchase of goods; and (iii) consulting services and training,
all at a rate of 100% free of taxes and duties.
Financial management, reporting and auditing: Accounting and financial management of the
project will be under the responsibility of the PITJ. A project financial management assessment was
carried out by a LAC Financial Management Specialist (FMS). The FMS concluded that the PIU
needs to be strengthened. An action plan was drawn up and it was agreed to hire two financial
management experts for the PIU. The PIU will be responsible for consolidating project accounts and
information, budgeting, preparing financial reports, establishing internal controls and contracting
independent audits for the project. A new accounting, planning, monitoring and supervision software,
compatible with LACI, which will allow to integrate the register of accounting operations and the
physical-financial planning of the project, will be purchased. Project accounting and management
will start with the submission of SOEs. A year after project initiation and after installing an
integrated project financial system acceptable to the Bank, the PIU shall prepare and submit to the
Bank quarterly project management reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring
indicators of activities carried out during each quarter. The formats and basis to produce those reports
would be in accordance with the Bank Financial Management Manual and LACI procedures.
Participating water utilities would follow accounting procedures and financial reporting outlined in
the POM, which would be consistent with requirements of the PSP contracts and the regulatory
framework. Twice a year, (March 31 and September 30) summary progress reports on the
operational/financial performance of the utility, and the implementation of the subprojects, would be
presented by each participating utility to the PIU according to guidelines and formats included in the
POM. An independent accounting firm acceptable to the Bank will be hired annually in accordance
with terms of reference approved by the Bank to carry out the covenanted yearly audits of the special
accounts, project account and of the SOE's.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): During the period in which disbursements will be based
on submission of SOEs, standard Bank procedures for disbursements of this type will be followed.
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be
submitted with the corresponding applications. Disbursement for work contracts below US$ 350,000,
good contracts below US$ 50,000, consulting firms contracts below US$ 50,000 and individual
consultants contracts below US$ 50,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs. Documentation to
support these expenditures would be maintained by the PIU and made available for review by the
Bank supervision missions and project auditors. Documentation related to SOEs would be maintained
for up to one year after the final withdrawal of loan proceeds. Disbursement by SOEs will be phased
out as soon as the project is converted to a PMR-based disbursement project.
Flow of funds: Financial management will be the responsibility of the PIU. All Loan funds will be
deposited by the Bank, upon request of the PIU, in a special account in Banco de la Republica.
Investment funds for works and goods in medium size cities and small municipalities under
component A will be withdrawn by the PIU from the special account and deposited in an
Administrator Account. The Administrator, which will be in charge of handling these funds, will be
an Assistant Entity (Entity 1), which is an entity established by an international organization of
countries, of which Colombia is a member, and which has the expertise, facilities and personnel
required to carry out on behalf of the PIU certain activities under the project, such as administrating
funds, contracting services and entering into respective agreements. Advances from the special
account to the Administrator account will be documented within 30 days from the date the special



Page 98
account is debited. Bank funds will be used only to finance investments in the Caribbean region.
When used to finance works in subprojects of medium size cities, Bank funds will be transferred from
the Administrator account to subsidiary trust accounts managed by local fiduciary agencies. The
funds of each subproject will be handled by one local fiduciary agency which will be hired to manage
the funds of the respective subproject, and which will receive, in addition to the Bank funds also the
input from the corresponding municipality (mainly Law 60 funds). Each local fiduciary agency will
realize payments to constructors and service providers, upon authorization from the PIU. For
payments of taxes and duties, the local fiduciary agencies will use the funds contributed by the
municipalities. The local fiduciary agencies will sign the contracts with constructors and service
providers on behalf of the respective municipalities. When used to finance works in subprojects of
small municipalities, Bank funds will be transferred from the Administrator account of the Assistance
Entity directly to the bank accounts of the respective Constructors-Operators. In such cases, a local
fiduciary agency is not necessary since each subproject has only one works contract.
Technical Assistance funds, which will be used to finance all activities under components B, C and D
and will be fully financed by the Bank, will be transferred by the PIU from the special account to a
designated account for financing technical assistance activities, which will be administered by another
Assistance Entity (Entity 2), which is the same type of entity which will manage the investment
funds. From the designated account managed by Entity 2, payment will be made to consultants and
service providers, according to instructions of the PIU. Entity 2 will sign the consulting contracts on
behalf of the government. MED is reviewing the performance of the Assistance Entities available in
Colombia, and will sign, before the effectiveness date, agreements with the two which will be
selected for the project. MED might decide to sign both agreements with a single Assistance Entity,
which will be in charge of both tasks and open the two accounts (the Administrator account for
investments funds under component A and the Designated account for TA funds under components B,
C and D). Since the selection process of the Assistance Entity is not competitive, the costs associated
with the agreements of hiring these entities are not eligible for Bank financing. Nevertheless, the
Entities need to be acceptable to the Bank.
Government counterpart funds will be used to finance investments in all parts of the country, mostly
out of the Caribbean region, but they can be used also for investments within that region. The
counterpart funds will be managed directly by MED and will be deposited by the treasury in the
project account, which is an account in a commercial Bank which will be opened by MED for this
purpose. From this account the funds will flow in an identical fashion to that of the Bank funds, i.e.,
when used to finance works in subprojects of medium size cities, they will be transferred from the
project account to the subsidiary trust accounts in the local fiduciary agencies, and when used to
finance works in subprojects of small municipalities, counterpart funds will be transferred from the
project account directly to the bank accounts of the respective Constructors-Operators.
If, for some reason, the described flow of funds route from the special account to the accounts
managed by the Assistance Entities is interrupted, other routes acceptable to the Bank, such as
reimbursement of the Borrower for eligible payments made for the project and direct payment by the
Bank to service providers, may be used. Direct deposits from the Bank into the Administrator
account and Designated account managed by the Assistance Entities may also be done.
A diagram detailing the flow of funds scheme is attached below.
The PIU will be responsible for sending withdrawal applications to the Bank and for reporting on the
use of funds. The PIU will also be responsible for management of the counterpart funds contributed
by the government, in conjunction with the use of the Bank funds, as prescribed in the Loan
Agreement and for timely replenishment of the counterpart funds' project account by issuing requests
to the government for replenishing that account, according to project needs and agreed procedures.



Page 99
Retroactive financing: Project preparation activities were carried out by the implementation unit of
component E of the Municipal Development Project, Loan 3336-CO. This unit was financed from the
proceeds of Loan 3336-CO, whose closing date was December 31, 2000. The personnel of this unit
has gained valuable experience in carrying out PSP processes. The proposed project is expected to
become effective in October 2001. It is imperative that the same PIU will continue to be active in the
forthcoming months because of the following reasons: (i) it needs to continue to carry out the project
preparation activities; and (ii) because of the valuable experience it has gained, it is important that in
continue to perform the project management activities after effectiveness. However, since all the PIU
personnel are consultants financed by the proceeds of Loan 3336-CO, the funding source of this unit
has been discontinued on December 31, 2000. Given the importance of maintaining the PIU active,
the project team reached an agreement with the government that from January 1, 2001 until the
effectiveness date, the PIU will be finance by DNP (Plan Caribe) funds (at an estimated amount of
US$ 150,000), which will be retroactively financed after effectiveness. In addition, several medium
and small municipalities have recently signed contracts with the private sector, which was
incorporated in the provision of their water and sewerage services under various modalities.
Municipalities that can be mentioned in this respect include: Monteria, Riohacha, Sur de la Guajira,
Soledad and Malambo. The government has committed to provide financial support to these
municipalities. If the utilities under private sector management in these and other municipalities will
be eligible to participate in the project, retroactive financing of all or part of the subsidies provided by
the government might be approved. The total amount of retroactive financing will not exceed 10% of
the loan amount and they will be used to finance works and services which have been executed within
a period not exceeding 12 months prior to loan signing, and whose contracting has been carried out in
accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.



Page 1 00
FLOW OF FUNDS DIAGRAM
Counterpart Funds                                            .............................Bank in Washington
fromGovernment                                                .............................US$40 m
Budget ............................ 
_  _    _      _      _~~~~No                                              Special Account in
Ministry of Economic                      Assistance Entity I                  Banco de la
Development Administrating                  Administrating Loan                     Repuiblica
Counterpart Investment Funds                   Investments A1,A2)                     US$40 m
US$3 1.8m_                                            =
_   _  _                       _                                 s ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  Assistance Entity 2
Project Account to                   Administartor Account                                        Administrating
Finance Subprojects in                 (World Bank funds) to   .lDesignated Account to
the Entire Country                    Finance Subprojects in                                Finance Tecnical Assistance
the Caribbean Region                                     (Components B,C,D)
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                    $ .   m::t
+                                  11 ~~~~~~~~~Payments to 
l                  i                             11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Consultants 
| aw                              60ML 
Transfers    l     l        Direct Payments to                   LOCAL FIDUCIARY           |       1       Law 60       l
Constructors-Operators  [         lAGENCIES                        | |l           ransfers     l
|3of Small Municipalities                 for Medium Size Cities     1
_                  | |mmE  (Pop. 2,000-12,000 res.)  |    |(Pop. 12,000 - 300,000 res.)  | |            _
ll Other       lll                                                                                         Other       l
Municipal   |                                                                   -||                      Municipal l
Sources,                                                             Payments to                 _Sources,             l
Royalties, etc. |                                             1 Constructors and   |1  Royalties, etc.|
Suppliers of Utilitiesl                                 l
l|of Medium size Cities|



Page 101
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in         Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Works Under Subprojects                    26.5                     93%
2. Goods for Subprojects                       3.0                100% of foreign
84% of local
3. Goods for TA                                0.2                100% of foreign
84% of local
4. Consulting Services and Training            7.3                    100%
5. Unallocated                                 3.0
Total                         40.0
(Note: The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee equal to US$400,000 no later than 60 days after
effectiveness date of the Loan).



Page 102
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Schedule                                     Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          19                           28
First Bank mission (identification)                 08/17/99                     08/17/99
Appraisal mission departure                         11/11/00                     06/11/01
Negotiations                                        02/03/01                     07/25/01
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       04/01/01                     11/30/01
Prepared by:
Project Implementation Unit, Water and Sanitation Directorate, Ministry of Economic Development
Preparation assistance:
Loan 3336-CO, Municipal Development Project, Component E, Modernization of the Water Sector
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                         Speciallty
Menahem Libhaber                      Task Team Leader, Sr. Water and Sanitation specialist
Fernando Troyano                      Consultant, Private Sector Development Specialist
Maria Angelica Sotomayor              Economist
Sophie Sirtaine                       Financial Analyst
Sumeet Thakur                         Sr. Financial Analyst
Luz Maria Gonzalez                    Consultant, Financial Expert
Juan David Quintero                   Sr. Environmental Specialist
Paula Pini                            Social and Community Specialist
Philip Gray                           Private Sector and Regulation Specialist
Luis Schwarz                          Financial Management Specialist
Luis Carlos Guerrero                  Financial Management Specialist
Luiz Gazoni                           Sr. Procurement Specialist
Jaime Roman                           Lead Procurement Specialist
Roberto Cucullu                       Consultant, Counsel
Juan Carlos Alvarez                   Counsel
Krishna Challa                        Sector Leader
Abel Mejia                            Sector Manager
Martha Gonzalez                       Team Assistant
Silvia Delgado                        Team Assistant
Klas Ringskog                         Peer Reviewer
Vijay Jagannathan                     Peer Reviewer
Robert Taylor                         Peer Reviewer



Page 103
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manual Operativo del Proyecto
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I. Elaboraci6n de los estudios para el establecimiento de los planes de obras e inversiones de
acueducto y alcantarillado requeridos en ciudades intermedias del pais (Armenia, Calarca,
Corozal, Cuicuta, Villa del Rosario, Los Patios, El Zulia, San Cayetano, Dosquebradas, Florencia,
Ipiales, Maicao, Quibd6, Sincelejo y Duitama), Ingetec S.A.
2. Elaboraci6n de los planes de obra e inversiones requeridos en los sistemas de acueducto y
alcantarillado requeridos en esquemas regionales del pais [ARATT (Arjona, Turbaco, Turbana);
ERAS (Cerete, Cienaga de Oro, San Carlos, Sahagin, San Pelayo); ATLANTICO ORIENTE
(Baranoa, Palmar de Vatela, Polo Nuevo, Ponedera); ACUAVALLE (33 municipios);
Sabanagrande, Santo Tomas y Cumaral), Hidrotec S.A.
3. Formulaci6n, Promoci6n y Venta de Esquemas de Vinculaci6n de Operadores Especializados a la
Prestaci6n de los Servicios de Acueducto y Alcantarillado entre Seis y Diez Ciudades Intermedias
del Pais (Duitama, Manizales, Florencia, Maicao, Cucuta, Quibdo, Dosquebradas, Corozal,
Sincelejo), Capital Corp-Hytsa.
4. Formulaci6n, promoci6n y venta de esquemas de vinculaci6n de operadores especializados a la
prestaci6n de los servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado entre tres y cinco empresas regionales
del pais [ARATT (Arjona, Turbaco, Turbana); ERAS (Ceret6, Cienaga de Oro, San Carlos,
Sahagun, San Pelayo); ACUAVALLE (33 municipios)], Flemings-Corficolombiana.
5. Formulaci6n, Promoci6n y Venta del Esquema de Vinculaci6n de Operadores Especializados a la
Prestaci6n de los Servicios de Acueducto y Alcantarillado en la ciudad de Popayan, Selfinver-
Chemonics
6. Elaboraci6n de los estudios conducentes a la Formulaci6n y puesta en marcha de los esquemas de
participaci6n de pequeflos y medianos empresarios de servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado -
PYMES - en tres grupos objetivos [ATLANTICO ORIENTE (Baranoa, Polo Nuevo, Palmar de
Valera, Ponedera); ERCA (Chima, Lorica, Momil, Purisima, San Antero, Sotavento);
ASMUARIGUANI (Astrea, Bosconia, Ariguani, El Copey, El Paso, La Gloria, San Alberto);
Sabanagrande, Santo Tomas], Sedic S.A.
7. Elaboracion de los estudios conducentes a la Formulaci6n y puesta en marcha de los esquemas de
participaci6n de pequefios y medianos empresarios de servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado -
PYMES - en seis capitales de departamentos y municipios intermedios del pais [ATLANTICO
ORIENTE (Baranoa, Polo Nuevo, Palmar de Valera, Ponedera); ERCA (Chima, Lorica, Momil,
Purisima, San Antero, Sotavento); ASMUARIGUANi (Astrea, Bosconia, Ariguani, El Copey, El
Paso, La Gloria, San Alberto); Sabanagrande, Santo Tomas, Chichinquiri, Malaga, Espinal,
Flandes, Puerto Carrefno, Mocoa], Silva Carreflo y Asociados.
8. Elaboraci6n de los estudios conducentes a la Formulaci6n y puesta en marcha de los esquemas de
participaci6n de pequeflos y medianos empresarios de servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado -



Page 104
PYMES - en cuatro municipios intermedios de 30.000 a 70.000 habitantes del pais (Sabanalarga,
El Carmen de Bolivar, Magangue, San Juan Nepomuceno), REN - Jose Mora.
9. Consultoria para la estructuraci6n de esquemas Constructor - Operador para la7participaci6n de
pequefnos y medianos empresarios de servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado - PYMES en el
departamento de C6rdoba (Puerto Escondido, Los C6rdobas, Moffitos, San Bernardo del Viento),
Ingetec S.A.
10. Consultoria para la estructuraci6n de esquemas Constructor - Operador para la participaci6n de
pequefios y medianos empresarios de servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado - PYMES en el
departamento de Tolima (Cumaral, Nataga, Palermo, Palermo-Rural, Tello), Hidrotec S.A.
11. Estudio del consumo y estimacion de una funcion de demanda de agua potable, Econometria S.A.
12. Evaluacion socio-economica de proyectos de acueducto y alcantarillado: analisis costo-beneficio
(Socio-economic analysis of the a sample of water utilities, a cost-benefit analysis), Econometria
S.A.
13. Evaluacion del impacto social del proyecto (Social impact assessment of the project),
Econometria S.A.
14. Evaluaci6n Ambiental del sector de agua potable y saneamiento basico en Colombia
(Environmental assessment of the water and sanitation sector in Colombia), Ernesto Sanchez.
15. Financial Analysis of a sample of water utilities, Luz Maria Gonzalez.
16. Pliegos modelo de licitacion, Contratacion de obras y operacion de los sistemas de acueducto y
alcantarillado del Municipio pequeno (Nombre del municipio) [Model Bidding Documents for
works and operation of the water and sewerage systems in small municipalities).
17. Modelo de Documentos de licitacion para un contrato de operacion de los sistemas de acueducto
y alcantarillado en la ciudad intermedia (Nombre de la ciudad) [Model Bidding Documents for
operation of the water and sewerage systems in a medium size city].
18. Modelo de PSP en empresas de acueducto y alcantarillado en ciudades intermedias en Colombia,
Fernando Troyano
19. Modelo Constructor-Operador para participacion privada en municipios pequenos, Fernando
Troyano.
20. Modelo Financiero Estamdard para Analisis de procesos de Participaci6n Privada en Empresas de
Acueducto, Economica Consultores.
C. Other
I. Plan de accion y estrategia regulatoria para el sector de acueducto y alcantarillado en Colombia,
Fernando Troyano.
2. Comportamiento de empresas de agua y alcantarillado frente a la expansion de los servicios a
areas de bajos recursos: el caso de Cartagena, Barranquilla, Tunja, Bogota, Medellin y Manizales,
Econometria S.A.
3. Disefno de una formula de asignaci6n de subsidios a los proyectos de acueducto, Econ6mica
Consultores.



Page 105
4. El Resago de la Costa Caribe Colombiana, Haraldo Calvo, Adolfo Meisel, Banco de la Republica,
Fundesarrollo, 1999.
5. Buletin SISD No. 20 and No. 26, National Planning Department (DNP), Colombia.
*Including electronic files



Page 106
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amnount in USS Millions                     disbursementsa
Project ID      FY            Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA                Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P044140                2000  CARTAGENAWATERSUPPLY&SEWERAGE                 85.00     0.00                   0.00     75.75    12.05        000
P050578                2000  ENVIRO                                        20.00     0 00                   0.00     19.80     1t95        0 00
P057326                2000  CO- RURAL EDUCATION                            5.00     0.00                   0.00      4.77     -0.23       0.00
P063643                2000  SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE                    506.00     0.00                   0.00    212.99      0 00       000
P065263                2000  DEVELOPMENT                                  225.00     0.00                   0.00    103.66     -281        0.00
P068762                2000  CO-FSAL                                      100.00     000                    0.00    10000      1167        000
P039082                1999  EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                          137.00     0.00                   0.00    100.00    100.00       0.00
P050576                 1999  CO- COMMUNITY WORKS(MANOSALA                  5.00     0.00                   0.00      3.18      2.35       000
P053243                 1998  OBRA)                                         5.00     0.00                   0.00      3.46      1.63       0.00
P046112                 1998  TOLLROADCONCESSION                            7.20     000                    0.00      4.28      2.62       0.00
P006891                 1998  CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                        40.00     0.00                   0.00     31.71     16.56       000
P006861                 1998  PEASANTENTERPRISEZ                           75.00     0.00                   0.00     57.32     1449        000
P040102                 1997  CO- PASTO EDUCATION                          12.50     0.00                  0.00       6.77     4 27        0.00
P006884                1997  CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                       15.00     0.00                   0.00     10.52      9.62       0.00
P039291                 1996  URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                         20.00     0.00                   0.00      3.39      3 39      -1.20
P006687                 1996  REG.REF.TA                                  249.30     0.00                   0.00     19.00    14 83        154
P006S72                1996  FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                 65.00     0.00                   0.00      4.16      3.00       0.16
P006S94                1996  URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                         145.00     0.00                   0.00     64.87     62.70       0.00
P006880                1995  POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY             36.00     0.00                   0.00     15.95    13.35       -4 75
P006893                1995  (TA)                                          11.00     0.00                   0.00      0.47      047        0.00
P006866                1994  URBAN TRNSPRT                                 90.00     0.00                  0.12       0.06      0.18      -3.76
P006854                 1993  SANTAFE I (Waler/Supply)                     50.00     0.00                  2.12       009       1 39       2.22
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CO- SECONDARY EDUCATION
CO- MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES
Total:    1904.00       0.00                   2.24      842.41    273.48      -5.80



Page 107
COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                 Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88/93J95    CF del Valle          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1963/90           Coltejer                6.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/99           Corfinsura             25.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00
1999              Harken                 30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1987              PRODESAL                0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59      0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96    Promigas              6.88    0.00    0.00    14.58    6.88    0.00      0.00   14.58
1994/95           Promisan                0.00    0.23     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00
1996              Proyectos               0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Suleasing              24.82    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999              Surenting               0.00    5.10     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      92.72    10.92   25.00    14.58    15.15    8.32    25.00   14.58
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001                   Tolcemento                    3333.33      0.00      0.00  10666.67
2001                   CHMC                             0.00  10000.00  30000.00      0.00
2001                   Cementos Caribe               4047.62      0.00  10000.00  12952.38
Total Pending Commitment:     7380.95  10000.00  40000.00  23619.05



Page 108
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 America    middle-       r-
Colombia    & Carib.   income          Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                             41.5        509      2,094                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas method, US$)                         2170       3,840       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, /JS$ billions)                           90.0      1,955      2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population  (%)                                              1.9         1.6        1.1      GNP                                  Go
Labor force (%)                                              2.7         2 5        1.2      per                                p Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                        capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population beleu national poverty line)         21
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                        73         75         43
Life expectancy at birth  (years)                             70         70         69                           L
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive births)                       23         31         33
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)                      8           8         15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source  (% of population)            78         75         86
Illiteracy (% of population age 150)                           9         12          16
Gross primary enrollment  (% of school-age population)       113        113        114                Colmbia
Male                                                      113                    114                Lower-middie-income group
Female                                                    112                    116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979      1989       1998        1999      1
vEconomic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                27.9      39.5        99.1       86.6
Gross domestic investmentGDP                      18.2      18.5        19.5       13.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 15.2      18.0        15.0       17.8
Gross domestic savings/GOP                        19.9      22.7        13.6       11.0
Gross national savings/GDP                        19.2      19.8        12 3        9.0
Current account balance/GDP                        1.4      -0.5        S53        -1.1      Domesbc                         InJe.t.en
Interest payments/GDP                              0.9       4.0         1.6        2.1                                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    21.0      42.7        33.6       39.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                        14.3      48.4        30.5       43.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                               32.7       45.1
Present value of debVexports                                          216.5      255.6      |
Indebtedness
1979-89   1989-99      1998        1999    1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                      3.4       3 4       0.5        -4.3        2.6                 Colombia
GNP per capita                           0.8       1.6      -0.9        -71         1.0                 Lower-middfe-income gmoup
Exports of goods and services           5.8        5.8       5.9        4 7         3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979      1989       1998        1999     'Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                   so
Agriculture                                       22.0      16.6        13.3       12.2
Industry                                          30.3      38.2       25.7       24.8       30
Manufacturing                                   23.0      21.6        14.2       12.9
Services                                          47.7      451        61.0        62.9           -             9
Private consumption                               70.7      68.1       67.5       67.9      [30
General government consumption                     9.3       9.2        18.9      21.1                                      r
Imports of goods and services                     13.5      13.8       20.9        19.5                      GOI          GOP
1979.89   1989-99        1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%t
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                        2 5      -2.1         0.6       -0.2     40
Industry                                           4.7       1.9       -1.8      -11.0
Manufacturing                                    2.8      -1 7        -0.3      -12.4      20
Services                                           3.0       5 3        -.5        -0.7
Private consumption                                2.6       3.5         0.8       -5.1      0       94    95    96    9 7
General government consumption                     4.3       8.4         0.9        4.3
Gross domestic investment                          2.3       5 7        -5.7      -30.1    -20        _                 C
Imports of goods and services                      0.8      13.2        -2.8      -13.5                   Expots         ImponS
Gross national product                             2.9       3.6         1.0       -5.5 
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomDlete



Page 109
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     3 
(% change)
Consumer prices                              24.7      26.1      16.7       9.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        24.1      24.7      15.5      12.5
Government finance                                                                  10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  01
Currentrevenue                                  ..    10.2       11.9      12.6             94    95   96   97   9B   99
Current budget balance                          ..      1.2      -3.1       4.7                  GDP deflator    0CP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -0.5       -5.3      -6.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                 ~ ~~~~1979  1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(USS millions)
Totalexports(fob)                           3,441    6,031     11,494    12,044     20000
Coffee                                     2,005    1,476      1,896    1,325
Petroleum                                    146    1,400      2,333    3,761     15,000
Manufactures                               1,224    2,145     6,588     3,922
Total imports (cif)                         2,978    4,558     14,836    10,311     10000
Food                                        254  219  1,655  1,415  5iii  11199
Fuel and energy                             322       316       158       270
Capital goods                              1,077    1,595      5,522    3,651         0
93       95 s   1 97   985 9
Exoort odne index (1995=100)                    5       36        112       117     1
ImDort Doce index (1995=1001                    4       43        116       116                 *Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     123       82         96       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1979     1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               4,532    7,330    13,560    13,959      0
Imports of goods and services               3,919    6,411     17,542    13,595
Resource balance                              613      919     -3,982      363
Net income                                   -277   -2,019    -1,735    -2,123
Net current transfers                          66      898        444      796
Cunrent account balance                       402     -201     -5,273     -964
Financing items (net)                        -487      350      6,663     1,387
Changes in net reserves                        85     -149     -1,390     -423    -6
.Jemo.,
Reserves includina oold (USS millions)           .       ..    8.741      8.103
Conversion rate (DEC. localWUSS)             42.5    382.6    1.426.5   1.757.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,869   16,886    33,263    34,519
IBRD                                        838    3,808      1,740     1,958                     A 1,740 B: 9
IDA                                          22       15          9        8             G: 6,232             D 2,801
Total debt service                            703    3,905      4,565     6,596                                    E:1,397
IBRD                                        124      640       347       391
IDA                                           0        1          1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              10       37         61
Official creditors                          137      102        107      923
Private creditors                           542      -10        566      995
Foreign direct investment                   127      576      3,038     1,008
Portfolio equity                              0        0         26      663
F. 21, 084
World Bank program
Commitments                                 331      330        227      591      A - IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               139      361        184      499      B- IA     D- Other m.tilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         52      333        233      271      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    87       28        48       228
Interest payments                            73      308        115      123
Net transfers                                14     -280       -164      105
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/29/00



Page 110
Annex 11: Eligibility Criteria for Participating Municipalities
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Eligibility criteria for small municipalities
Because of the large number of small municipalities, the competition for participating in the project
is expected to be strong and the eligibility criteria are expected to provide a screening. Participation
is demand driven and is based on the principle of first come first served. The eligibility criteria for
small municipalities are:
(i) the population in the municipality (in urban area) is in the range of 2,000 to 12,000
inhabitants, although when warranted and on an exceptional basis, somewhat larger
municipalities will be allowed to participate;
(ii) the level of low income population in the municipality exceeds an established level (only
municipalities with an INDEMUN index value of 5 or lower will be eligible);
(iii) the nominal water coverage rate in the municipality is lower than 80%;
(iv) the mayor agrees to PSP and accept the proposed PSP model, by signing an initial agreement
(Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica) with the MED which will commit them to repay 80% of
the PSP preparation costs if they change their mind on the way and drop from the project
before completing the PSP process;
(v) the mayor agrees to new tariffs at a level which will ensure coverage of at least the
operation, maintenance and administration costs. This commitment will be part of the initial
agreement document;
(vi) the mayor and municipal council agree to provide annually a certain percent (between 8 to
20%, to be established specifically for each case) of the government transfers (Ingresos
Corrientes de la Nacion-ICN, under Law 60) or other municipal resources;
(vii) the mayor commits to carry out a campaign aimed at informing the community about the
reform, the PSP model and the tariff adjustment involved;
(viii) design of works, especially sewerage, is based on the condominial approach and appropriate
technology or on the ASAS (Alcantarillado Sin Arrastre de Solidos) system;
(ix) the proposed works do not include resettlement;
(x) the susbsidy per connection is capped and cannot exceed the value of US$ 500;
(xi) works will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines in the environmental urban
manual; and
(xii) the operator will prepare the Environmental Assessment of the works and carry out an
environmental mitigation plan, while the municipality will be responsible for obtaining the
environmental license, when needed.



Page 111
B. Eligibility criteria for medium size cities
The potential number of medium size cities is not large, so the eligibility criteria for this type of
cities are more relaxed. Participation is demand driven and is based on the principle of first come
first served. The eligibility criteria for medium size cities are:
(i) the population of the municipality (in urban area) is in the range of 12,000 to 300,000
inhabitants;
(ii) the mayor agrees to PSP and confirm their commitment by signing an initial agreement with
the MED (Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica) which will commit them to repay 80% of the
PSP preparation costs if they change their mind on the way and drop from the project before
completing the PSP process;
(iii) the mayor agrees to instate the tariffs to a level which will cover at least operation,
maintenance and administration costs and will reach the maximum socially acceptable level
and contribute to the systems expansion costs. This commitment will be part of the initial
agreement document;
(iv) the mayor and municipal council agree to provide annually a certain percent (between 8 to
20%, to be established specifically for each case) of the government transfers (Ingresos
Corrientes de la Nacion-ICN, under Law 60) or other municipal resources;
(v) the mayor commits to carry out a campaign aimed at informing the community about the
reform, the PSP model and the tariff adjustment involved;
(vi) the mayor and the existing public utility agree to the subsidy principles of the project, i.e.,
that subsidies benefit only strata 1,2 and 3;
(vii) the proposed works do not include resettlement;
(viii) the subsidy per connection is capped and cannot exceed the value of US$ 250;
(ix) works will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines in the environmental urban
manual.
(x) the operator will prepare the Environmental Assessment of the works and carry out an
environmental mitigation plan, while the municipality will be responsible for obtaining the
environmental license, when needed.
(xi) Water utilities of medium size cities which have awarded PSP contracts prior to the loan
effectiveness date may be eligible to project financing if: (a) the private operator has been
elected through a competitive bidding process acceptable to the Bank; (b) the agreed tariff
levels are adequate and coincide with the principles of the proposed project, or, in case they
are inadequate, the operator and the municipal authorities agree to bring them to adequate
levels; (c) the municipal authorities are ready to contribute matching financial resources
from government transfers or other sources; and (d) when necessary, the private operator and
the municipal authorities agree to modify the performance indicators stipulated in the
operation contract, add to it indicators for low income areas and incorporate in it other
amendments, as required by MED and the Bank.



Page 112
Annex 12: Sectoral Environmental Assessment Summary
of the Water and Sewerage Sector in Colombia
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Introduction
To assist the government of Colombia in addressing the problems related to water and sewerage services
in medium size and small municipalities, the project will support the government's modernization
program of the water supply and sewerage sector, whose purpose is to increase sewerage coverage and
improve the level of services and quality of drinking water in the national territory. The Ministry of
Economic Development (MED) intends to reach the proposed goal by promoting participation of the
private sector as an operator of the water and sewerage systems and by providing financial support to
ensure that the necessary investments be undertaken.
In order to partially finance the investments required and to guarantee participation of private sector in the
water and sanitation sectors, the government has resorted to multilateral financing agencies, particularly
to the World Bank. When completed, the proposed project would have: (i) improved water supply by
rehabilitation, expansion and optimization of the operation of water supply systems in about 25 small
municipalities and 3 medium size cities; (ii) improved sewerage services in participating municipalities
by expanding the coverage of the sewerage network specially in poor marginal areas; (iii) supported the
consolidation of new institutional arrangements with private sector participation and (iv) contributed to
the goal of achieving sustainable economic development by ensuring reliable water and sewerage
services.
This Annex summarizes the findings of the Environmental Assessment of the Water and Sewerage Sector
(Sectoral Environmental Assessment- SEA) in Colombia prepared by the MED through a group of local
consultantsI', as part of project preparation. The "Strategic Environmental Evaluation - (SEE)" is
a more recent tool than the "Environmental Impact Evaluation- (EIE)"'2, that goes beyond
individual projects. It is intended to anticipate and analyze the environmental consequences of
sectoral or regional policies proposed at the governmental level. The purpose of the
environmental analysis is to examine the implications of the reform plan designed by the
Ministry of Economic Development. Results from the SEA identify restrictions for improving
environmental management capacity in the sector and also recommend a series of institutional
strengthening actions aimed at overcoming identified bottlenecks. The SEA was subjected to
intensive institutional and public consultation with the participation of the Ministry of Environment,
National Department of Planning, Regional Environmental Agencies, Regulatory agencies, NGOs and
public defense groups. Formal Bank review of the final reports was carried out before appraisal and found
that they conform filly to Bank policy guidelines regarding environmental and social issues. The
mentioned report was made available to the public in the Public Information Center of the World Bank in
Washington and in the office of the PIU in MED in Bogota.
" Evaluacion Ambiental del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, E. Sanchez and others, January 2001.
12 During the 80s and 90s, the tool used to cope with environmental problems of development projects was the so-called
"Environmental Impact Study" This tool is used to present prevention, mitigation and compensation plans against the
environmental impact caused by each project. Environmental Impact Studies have been one of the main tools used by the water
and sewerage sector and licenses granted by the Ministry of Environment and autonomous regional corporations depend on their
approval.



Page 113
Environmental Impacts Associated to the Water and Sewerage Sector
Three key environmental issues were identified regarding the water sector: (i) public health, particularly,
water pollution and related morbidity and mortality; (ii) the inefficient use of water and degradation of
water resources; and (iii) environmental problems associated with the construction, operation and
maintenance of water and sewer projects.
Public Health. The main environmental impacts associated with the water and sewer sector are related to
public health issues. Water-related diseases mostly affect children. For example, diarrhea-associated
diseases are directly related to the bacteriological contamination of water. It has been estimated that more
than 50 types of infection can be transmitted by contaminated water. On the other hand, supply of high
quality drinking water improves hygiene in consumers residents as well as safe preparation and
preservation of food. Diseases such as cholera, typhoid fever, diarrhea, shigellosis, and hepatitis are
associated to the lack of access to potable water, fecal contamination and inadequate hygienic habits.
Although statistical reliability is not fully confirmed, information supplied by Sivigila and the Ministry of
Health indicates that morbidity associated with water borne diseases is very high in Colombia. For
example in 1991, reported cholera cases reachedl6.800 incidents, including 291 mortalities. The lack of
access to drinking water and sewerage services is more significant in areas where other factors such as
low income, and lack of education and of good hygiene combine to form a situation of high risk to public
health. The lack of access to drinking water is also related to skin diseases such as scabies and other
parasites. The public health related costs to the Colombian society resulting from the limited coverage of
drinking water, water contamination and poor hygiene are very high."3 Diarrheic related diseases not only
have a high economic cost, but are also associated with physical pain, particularly among children.
Persistent high rates of diarrhea among children are still prevalent in the country (see Graph 1).
GRAPH 1: INCIDENCE OF DIARRHEA AND ENTERITIS AMONG CHILDREN UNDER 5 YEARS OF
AGE, COLOMBIA 1990 - 1997
In
ci
d
e
n   120
ce  100   113,5      114,1       112,2        111,4      1104,1       16,0      110
1.   80                                                                                   87,8
00   60
0    40
H    20
a     01
b.     1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995        1996        1997
Consolidated mortality data on diarrheic diseases, mortality rate, and presence of cholera show that high
risk areas are prevalent throughout the country.'4 Sewerage coverage and water quality are determinant
13 Between 1991 and 1997, 4.400.000 and 3.500.000 cases of diarrheic diseases respectively were diagnosed. The
cost of treatment per sick person is estimated as US$30.00 and the cost of absence from work is estimated as
US$60.00 per person. Therefore, the annual cost associated with the diarrhea-associated morbidity is estimated at
US$315 to 400 million. At an annual discount rate of 10%, the present net value of the associated cost is estimated
at more than US$3000 million.
14 The areas at higher risk (from highest to least) are: Guainia, Vichada, Cauca, Quindio, Magdalena Santander,
Caldas, Guavire, Sucre, Caqueta, Guajira, Putumayo, San Andres y Providencia, Valle, Cundinamarca, Amazons,
Choco and Narifio



Page 114
factors: of the 1070 municipalities, only 574 have water distribution networks and water treatment plants,
but of those only 236 are working properly. According to the Ministry of Health, residential water
connections amount to 69% of households in urban areas and 26% in rural areas.
Degradation of water resources. The second environmental priority identified for the sector is the waste of
water and the degradation of water basins. CRA (1999) estimated that technical and commercial water
losses reach a level of 50% on a national, i, e, around 750 million cubic meters of water per year are not
accounted for representing a costly waste of resources (see tables I and 2).
Table 1: Unaccounted-For Wate r: Large Water Companies
Year         AVERAGE         MAXIMUM         MINIMUM          MEDIAN
1995            40%             60%             24%             41%
1996            41%             55%             33%             38%
1997            40%             51%             30%             41%
Source: Spiller, Pablo. Action Plan and Regulatory Strategy. Final Report, 2000.
Table 2: Values of Unaccounted-For Water (1997)
CITY                             UAFW IN CUBIC           VALUE OF UAFW
METERS                 ($OF 1996)
Medellin                             99.411.303            49.606.242.538
Barranquilla                        109.283.255            57.037.695.651
Bogota                              159.337.525            149.878.289.201
Cali                                 63.138.339            24.434.537.193
Total of these 4 Companies          431.170.426            280.956.764.583
Total of 16 Companies               626.735.579            353.050.807.250
Source: Spiller, Pablo. Action Plan and Regulatory Strategy. Final Report, 2000.
In addition to the waste of treated water, wastewater discharges constitute a major source of
environmental pollution in Colombia. Wastewater treatment is low (see Table 3). Severe pollution
problem in rivers and wetlands are persistent around most of the country's major cities (well known cases
are those of Bogota, Cali, Medellin and Cartagena). In addition, deforestation and land use patterns have
caused severe damage to watersheds used for water supply.
Table 3: Wastewater Treatment Levels in Colombia
Urban Population   Water use m3/ day   Wastewater   Treated        O/otreated
Production       Wastewater     wastewater
m3/day           m3/day
29.386.109       6.788.191         5.407.044         11.680        0.21
Source: MED and DANE (National Department of Statistics)
Impact of the Construction and Operation of the Sector's Infrastructure. Inadequate environmental
considerations in the siting, design, construction and operation of sector infrastructure often leads to
degradation of natural habitats, social conflicts and economic impacts in urban areas. Although MED has
prepared technical standards for the design and operation of sector projects"5, these specifications do not
include environmental considerations, because the responsibility for such considerations is within the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Environment.
Legal and Institutional Framework
The SEA analyzed in great detail the environmental legal framework of the water and sewerage sector
including a large number of constitutional, legal and regulations provisions. The most relevant
environmental legislation for the sector include: Decree 1594 of 1983 (related to the Sanitation Code of
1979), which regulates wastewater discharges; Law 99 of 1993 and its decrees, which established the
"Sistema Nacional Ambiental" (SINA), National Environmental System, sets pollution charges and an
15 RAS: Reglamento del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento



Page 115
environmental license system. The SEA concludes that Decrees 1594 of 1984 and 1753 of 1994, as well
as Decree 901 of 1997, which sets environmental taxes (tasas retributivas) for contamination discharged
to the environment, are inefficient because they require actions which are more expensive than the
expected benefits. In addition, the SEA considers that Decrees 1594 and 901 ineffective because they are
inconsistent in relation the level of wastewater treatment that they prescribe and because they consider
only parameters such as organic matter and suspended solid, leaving out others more related to health.
Decree 1753 of 1994 establishes an environmental licensing system that gives administrative authority to
local environmental officials in weak regional agencies and causes an uncertain legal environment to
potential private investors in the water sector.
Decree 1594 of 1984 establishes standards to reduce water pollution, mainly as removal of 80% of
organic material, measured as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and removal of 80% of suspended
solids. Compliance with these parameters means that municipalities would all have to invest in secondary
treatment plants. Present net costs of those wastewater treatment plants indicate that water tariffs would
have to increase over 100% above the rates in effect in August 200016. Compliance with Decree 1594
would also mean the exclusion of the use ocean outfalls for disposal of wastewater in coastal cities. The
Standards required by Decree 1594 preclude taking advantage of the waste assimilation capacity of
receiving bodies.
Decree 901 of 1997, that regulates Law 99 of 1983, sets forth pollution charges for discharges of organic
matter and suspended solids into water bodies. Concentration of organic matter and suspended solids
affect aesthetics of superficial water bodies. This Decree promotes the improvement of the aesthetics of
water bodies by increasing tariffs several times above inflation rates. Environmental pollution indexes for
substances affecting human health are not related to organic matter and suspended solids. The intolerable
economic burden on water utilities prescribed by Decree 901, caused more than 99% of Colombian
utilities to refuse paying the charges associated with that Decree 901 and generated a great controversy.
Enforcement of Decree 901 on water and sewerage service providers will deter private operators from
participation in the water sector and limit the incorporation of private sector operators into the water
sector.
Law 99 of 1993 and Decree 1753 of 1994 provide the legal framework of the Environmental Licensing
System. Deficiencies in the environmental regulation concerning critical aspects such as pollution control,
hazardous waste management and treatment, solid waste management and fauna and flora preservation
are compensated with the drafting of environmental impact studies and environmental management plans.
The absence of an administrative procedure for environmental evaluation and the lack of criteria for the
approval of Environmental Impact Analyses and Environmental Management Plans, assign to the regional
environmental authorities discretionary jurisdiction to rule on environmental aspects. Such administrative
discretionality generates legal instability. Private investors would be reluctant to enter into business
adventures associated with legal uncertainties as those produced by the environmental licensing
provisions of Law 99 of 1993 and Decree 1753 of 1994.
The provision of water and sewerage services are, according to the constitution, a responsibility and an
obligation of municipalities. Formulation of sector policies at the national level is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Ministry of Health,
the Ministry of the Environment and the National Department of Planning. The Water and Sanitation
Regulatory Commission is in charge of economic regulation of water tariffs. At the regional and
departmental levels, regional corporations and departmental governments formulate and adapt respective
sector policies. The Ministries of Development, Health, Environment, the National Planning Department
and the Superintendency of Public Utilities supervise, control and enforce the sector regulations.
Enforcement of environmental regulations in the water and sanitation sector is weak. Generic language of
16 Internal Report, Direccion de Agua Potable MDE, 2000 - Directorate of Water, Ministry of Economic
Development, 2000



Page 116
sectoral regulation concerning competitiveness and the market, the prevailing institutional dispersion of
responsibilities and sector dynamics cause a large number of public operators not to improve traditionally
low coverage, poor quality and inefficient use of its resources.
In summary, The legislation package currently in effect (mainly Decree 1594 which requires that all
wastewater must already be treated for removal of at least 80% of Biochemical Oxygen Demand -BOD-
and at least 80% of Suspended solids -SS, and Decree 901 which sets the environmental tax - tasa
retributiva - for contamination of natural water bodies) is inconsistent and sets priorities which are
inconsistent with the water sector priorities. These inconsistencies coupled with institutionally weak
regional environmental authorities (CARs) who are in charge of law enforcement, generate confusion for
the water utilities and resistance to comply with the current legislation. The existing situation also
constitutes an unstable regulatory environment regarding the environmental legislation and obligations.
Mitigation of Environmental Impacts in the Sector
In order to guarantee prevention of morbidity and mortality problems associated with water borne
diseases, the Ministry of Economic Development is currently proposing sector policies aimed at
increasing coverage and improving the quality of the awter and sewerage services. Coverage increase and
quality improvement demand on one hand,participation of private investment and on the other,
modification of public sector investment allocations.
In order to promote participation of private capital in the water sector it is indispensable to guarantee a
stable environmental legislation environment and promote clear environmental "rules" and procedures.
Therefore, it is of utmost importance to amend Decrees 1594 of 1984; 1753 of 1994, and 901 of 1997 and
ensure consistency among the distinct Decrees. To guarantee legal certainty and thus private investment
in the sector, it is recommended to amend Law 99 of 1993, putting an end to administrative discretionality
of officials working in environmental agencies and clearly define duties and procedures for environmental
control to be exercised by such agencies. Concerning tariffs, application of solidarity criteria to protect
low income groups can sometimes lead, specially when insufficient information prevails, to defer and
even impair rate definition processes and their approximation to actual investment and operational costs.
Under these circumstances it is possible that even with rates exceeding the current ones, the
comparatively lower cost required to cover the present supply to poorest communities through tank
trucks, water suppliers and other modalities would turn to be more expensive due to transportation costs,
untimely supply and poor water quality. It is recommended to review water tariff setting policies making
a clear analysis of these type of situations in order to get the necessary acceptance from benefited
communities by considering the cost-benefit ratio represented by these solutions.
Concerning modification of public investment allocations, investment in potable water and sewer is
considered as an environmental investment under Decree Ill of 1995. Operation of the National
Environmental System (SINA) concerning coordination of the system, jurisdiction of CARs and
determination of priorities for public investment, is aimed at investment in basins reforestation programs,
forest conservation and wastewater treatment systems, neglecting basic needs for provision of water.
Similarly, distribution of royalties set forth in Law 141 of 1994 gives priority to investment in the
conservation of wilderness areas, reforestation or the promotion of mining activities, over basic
investment in the water and sewerage sector. In order to channel funds from royalties to the water and
sewerage sector, one of the following alternatives should be taken into consideration: (i) to temporarily
modify the royalties law so as to the modify the generic and specific destination of royalty funds in order
to allocate them totally to investments in water supply and sewerage systems; or (ii) taking into
consideration the large accumulated financial deficits in the water sector, financing total or partial
investment needs in this sector could be considered.
Due to the lack of public funds and the existing deficits, it is necessary to establish strict investment
priorities in the sector, particularly concerning allocation of direct and indirect royalties to investment in



Page 117
water networks until coverage exceeds 98%. The second priority would be investments in sewerage
collection systems, and its minimum goal would be a 90% coverage. Last (but not least) would be to
allocate funds to basic sanitation, management and final disposal of garbage. Supplementary
environmental works such as water basin reforestation, forest conservation, water bodies dredging,
primary, secondary and tertiary wastewater treatment plants could be financed once water coverage
exceeds 98%, sewerage coverage exceeds 90% and urban wastes disposal coverage exceeds 90%.
Since government contributions to investments in medium size cities and small municipalities under the
project would be limited, it would be advisable to lever up funds already existing under law 60 of 1993,
direct and indirect royalties and other existing government funding programs. If all indirect royalty funds
would be allocated to the water sector, it would receive a minimum annual amount of US$250 million,
which would meet, in the short term, the water and sewerage investment needs for medium size cities and
small municipalities. This would lead reacing a full coverage of water and sewerage services in a very
short term.
Ninety four per cent of Colombian cities have populations under 100.000 inhabitants. Until 1991,
Colombia had high coverage levels in rural areas. This achievement resulted from the participation of
national entities such as INAS, that promoted self construction of water networks in rural areas. During
the past 10 years, due to organizational deficiencies, small municipalities and rural areas have lagged
behind as to their administrative, financial and organizational conditions to develop and manage properly
their water and sewerage systems. It is necessary to create the conditions to promote and support this
significant group of municipalities and to launch, at the national and regional levels, the timely
development of efficient water supply and sewerage systems. It is recommended to establish a program to
increase water supply and sewerage coverage in rural areas.
Environmental Management Plan
The SEA report recommends the implementation of an sector-wide Environmental Management Plan
(EMP). The EMP proposes a number of measures to mitigate environmental impacts during the
construction and implementation phases and establishes an organizational structure, set of procedures and
a budget to implement activities under the EMP. The EMP has also identified a set of priority
environmental activities that will strengthen environmental management capabilities in the sector and will
assure achievement of the project's environmental objectives.. Priority activities include (i) modification
and strengthening of key environmental regulations, especially the existing water quality and effluent
discharge regulations; (ii) establishing sector wide criteria for the environmental management of water
and sanitation projects (siting, design, construction and operation), completing the existing sectoral
technical specifications; (iii) definition of environmental requirements to be included in bidding
documents and private operation contracts; (iv) defining methodologies and programs for environmental
audits of water and sanitation facilities; (v) strengthening the environmental management capabilities of
the sector as a whole, especially the Directorate of water and Sanitation at the Ministry of Economic
Development; (vi) streamlining the environmental licensing procedures for water and sanitation projects
in regional environmental agencies; (vii) training programs on environment for water and sanitation
system operators; and (viii) definition of public participation and community consultation criteria and
procedures for water and sanitation projects.
Environmental safeguards for PSP. In order to mitigate environmental effects associated with the
inefficient use of water and the degradation of water sources, as a result of this analysis, it is
recommended to improve the PSP process to include environmental considerations within all technical,
economic and financial stages of operation contracts in the water sector. A complete set of environmental
specifications to be included in the operation contracts are proposed in the SEA which include: (i)
environmental language in the definition of the contract purpose; (ii) specific references to the duties
arising from the Environmental Licenses and Environmental Management Plans; (iii) the definition of
environmental requisites for contract execution; (iv) the definition of the environmental obligations of the



Page 118
private operators; (v) the evaluation of environmental liabilities; (vi) environmental monitoring and
reporting requirements; and (vii) environmental considerations in tariff related aspects.
Environmental criteria and procedures for sectoral projects. In addition to the inclusion of environmental
considerations in the execution of sectoral investment projects, sectoral criteria and procedures for EA in
the sector are proposed by the SEA. Final EIE's would be divided into three groups or categories: Group I
corresponds to investment projects not needing Environmental Impact Analysis studies, but would only
need of Technical Environmental Specifications. This group would include for example, replacement
and/or maintenance of specific works of existing water supply and sewerage systems. Group II would
include investment projects needing Simplified Environmental Evaluation, as for example, construction
and/or expansion of specific civil works of water and sewerage systems located in rural or sub-urban
areas, which do not imply relocation of persons and/or economic activities and/or occupation of sensitive
natural areas. Group III would include projects in this sector requiring full Environmental Impact
Evaluations as such, for example in cases of dams, implying relocation of persons and/or economic
activities. These criteria and procedures are being consulted with the Ministry of Environment and the
Regional Corporations.
Strengthening Environmental Management Capacity in the Sector. In order to cope with the identified
weak institutional capacity in the sector to manage environmental issues it is recommended to assign
responsibility to the Ministry of Economic Development, as to the management and determination of
technical environmental criteria, and as to decision-making and coordination with Ministry of
Environment in the establishment and enforcement of the environmental requirements for water supply
and sewerage projects. In addition, it is necessary to strengthen necessary mechanisms (physical, human,
technical and financial) to assure that the Ministry of Economic Development will comply with its duties.
It is also necessary to ensure that economic and financial analysis be taken into account in the framework
of of environmental regulations.
Monitoring. During implementation, each private operators that will take over the responsibility for
providing the water and sewerage services in a participating municipality will need to prepare an EA for
the works he proposes to construct and, if warranted, prepare an EPM to be cleared by the Regional
Environmental Agency. The PIU in the MED will ensure that this is done and the Government financial
support to each participating municipality will be conditioned on proper handling of local environmental
impacts. In addition, environmental specifications to be included in all bidding documents and contracts
will be prepared as part of the SEA.
Cooperation Between Government Agencies. During project preparation, agreements have been
reached among the main stakeholders (Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of the Environment
and DNP) in regard to cooperation during project implementation aimed at working towards the
resolution of the described problems and supporting the implementation of the proposed project. The
cooperation activities will focus on: (i) implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the
project and assigning responsibilities to stakeholders; (ii) harmonizing the inconsistencies between
Decrees 1594 and 901; (iii) defining procedures and assigning responsibilities for issuing environmental
licenses for water project; (iv) evaluation of environmental risk and definition of mitigation mechanisms
which would be included in operation contracts; and (v) involvement of CRA in the regulation of the
environmental taxes (tasas retributivas ) and definition of mechanisms that would enable the inclusion of
these taxes in the water tariffs. An inter-institutional task force (the environmental task force) which will
include representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and of the Ministry of the Environment
will be constituted during project implementation to work on all the mentioned issues, build consensus on
environmental aspects, mitigate the risk to the project resulting from the current legislation and to resolve
ad-hok problems related to specific subprojects, in cooperation with the respective regional authority.



Page 119
The following tables define the activities of the EMP that will be included in the project:
Studies/Technical Assistance:
Studies                      Cost            Priority    Responsibility          Duration,
US dollars                                         months
Design, edition and          $ 50.000.00     l           MDE (UA)                8
dissemination of Technical
Environmental Specifications
Sectoral Environmental       $ 50.000.00     2           MDE (UA) e IDEAM        5
information systems
Water efficient technologies  $ 50.000.00    1           MDE                     7
Guidelines for Wastewater    $ 200.000.oo    2           MDE                     18
treatment plant technology
selection
Priorities for Institutional Strengthening
Project           Cost, USD dollars   Priority           Responsibility     Duration, months
Environmental      $ 150.000.00       1                  MDE                40
Management
Capacity in MDE
Training to        $ 75.000.00        1                  MDE                21
municipalities on
technical
environmental
specifications
Environmental      $ 50.000.00        2                  MDE                48
management
capacity of private
operators
Technical assistance $ 50.000.00      l                  MDE                21
to municipalities on
environmental
clauses in
concession contracts
Priorities for Support to Reform of Regulatory Framework
Cost, US dollars    Priority          Responsibility     Duration, months
Support to reform of $ 50.000.00      l                  MMA-MDE            5
wastewater
discharge standards
Support to        $ 50.000.00         1                  MMA-MDE            7
consultation
processes on
pollution charges
Strengthening of    $ 25.000.00       l                  MMA-MDE            3
ElAs in water and
sanitation sector



Page 120
Annex 13: Social Assessment Summary
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1. Introduction
As part of its effort to improve the living conditions of a large number of poor inhabitants, the
government of Colombia is planning to launch the Water Sector Reform Project, whose purpose is to
extend water supply and sewerage networks to medium and small size municipalities, as well as to ensure
quality and continuity of water supply services in order to reduce public health risks, especially for
children. To accomplish this objective, the government proposes to involve financially sound specialized
private operators in the management and operation of the water and sewerage services, so as to guarantee
efficient systems operation and to develop new investment programs.
The project's social benefits are focused on increasing coverage of water and sanitation services in
impoverished areas. Statistics show that in Colombia, about 10 million people lack access to piped water
supply and about 15 million lack connection to sewerage systems. The effective 7 water supply coverage
in the country is 38% for main cities and 27% for minor municipalities. Only 30% of municipal water
supply systems include water treatment plants and only a small portion of about 5% of the wastewater
generated in the country is treated.
The project targets the Caribbean region where about 40% of the population is below the poverty line and
about half of this poor population lives in conditions of misery. The Caribbean GNP is 61% lower than
the national average and for many decades the region has suffered from structural social problems, such
as land ownership concentrated in the hands a few landowners, limited access to agriculture credit lines,
political violence and population displacement.
The main issues on which the Social Assessment study undertaken during project preparation has
focussed include: (1) socio-economic condition in project area; (2) current level of water and sewerage
services; (3) expected project impact; (4) socio-economic burden of water cost before and after project;
(5) experience regarding the performance of private water operators with respect to services in low
income neighborhoods; (6) consensus building and community participation strategy; and (7) mitigation
measures for labor force reduction and tariff increase.
2. Socio-Economic Conditions in the Project Area
In Colombia, residential areas are classified into 6 socio-economic strata, stratum 6 being the highest
income area and stratum I the lowest. The classification is updated annually by DNP and is used for
calculation of tariffs for public services, for calculations of government transfers to municipalities and for
additional purposes. Residents of areas classified as 1,2 and 3 are considered low income population.
Population in strata 1,2 and 3 is a commonly used and easy to measure indicator of low income
population in Colombia. More accurate indicators of poverty are the unsatisfied basic needs (NBI)
indicator and the quality of life index (ICV).
The project focus area, i.e., the Caribbean region, is composed of eight departments: Atlantico, Bolivar,
Cesar, Cordoba, La Guajira, Magdalena, Sucre and San Andres y Providencia. Data on poverty and
coverage of water and sewerage services in the Caribbean region are provided in table 1. When measured
in terms of NBI, about 400/o of the Caribbean population is living in poverty and about half of that
population is living in misery. Of the seven departments included in the project area, all except one
(Atlantico) have a higher incidence of poverty and lower water and sewerage coverage rates than the
national averages. It is noteworthy that of all departments in the country the highest misery levels are
found in Cordoba and Sucre, when measured in terms of NBI. When using the quality of life index (ICV)
to measure poverty, again Bolivar, Cordoba, Magdalena and Sucre are, after Choco (which is a
department not located in the Caribbean region), among the poorest departments in the country.
17 Measured by the percentage of hours/year with service.



Page 121
Table 1: Percentage of Poor Population and Access to Water and Sewerage Services in the
Caribbean Region
% of Population    % of Population    % of Access to  % of Access to
Department  Living in poverty*   Living in Misery*   Water         Sewerage
(1999)            (1999)           (1997)         (1997)
Atlantico           19.5              5.2              97.0           68.1
Bolivar            36.7               15.5             69.7           36.2
Cesar              33.8               11.2             75.9           60.3
Cordoba            49.4               23.3             57.0           24.5
La Guajira         37.6               16.1             85.5           49.4
Magdalena          40.3               15.8             69.8           40.1
Sucre              44.6               19.8             75.8           44.5
Nation Total       25.4               7.7              83.3           70.0
* Poverty and misery measured using unsatisfied basic needs (Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas, NBI)
Source: Boletin SISD, No.26 and No.20. National Planning Departtnent (DNP), Colombia.
Specific surveys and field studies were carried out for the purpose of generating data for the social
assessments of the project. These data were also used for the financial and economic analysis of the
project. The social assessments presented in this Annex refers to a sample of six municipalities. This
sample includes the five municipalities used for the financial analysis (Maicao, ERAS, Sincelejo,
Cumaral and Nataga) and one additional medium size municipality, Quibdo, which although being
located out of the project focus area, was studied (along with additional ones) before the loan amount was
decreased, and it was considered worthwhile to present also the information of this municipality because
it is of the poorest in the country and the information about it is very relevant to the project.
The region targeted by the project is composed of a large concentration of population in the lower
socio-economic strata. Based on the information provided by the surveys carried out on the sample of
municipalities, over 70% of the population in the sample is of strata I and 2, which implies that for this
large portion of the population the monthly household income ranges from US$106 to US$ 160. Most of
the municipalities lack population of strata 4,5 and 6, and in municipalities in which those exist, their
portion is small. Tables 2 and 3 provide data on the distribution of the population among strata and on the
average monthly household income per strata.
Table 2: Distribution of the Population per Strata in the Sample Munici palities
Strata                               Total
Munici-          1               2                3             4 to 6      House-
pality      House-   %    House-   %    House-    %          House-   %    holds
holds          holds           holds             holds
Nataga       70      18%     190    49%      127     32%       0      0%      387
Cumaral      119    6%      1,334   67%      551     27%       0      0%     2,004
Quibdo      6,664   38%    7,698   44%    2,798    16%         0      0%    17,159
Eras        8,206   36%    10,280   44%    3,530    15%       1,015    4%    23,031
Maicao      5,270   25%    11,037   54%    4,122    20%        0      0%    20,429
Sinceleio    14,323   27%    16,512   31%    14,822    28%   6,575   12%    52,232
Sample      34,652   30%   47,051   41%    25,950    23%     7,590    7%    11,5243



Page 122
Table 3: Monthly Household Income per Strata in the Sample Municipalities
Strata
Munici-          1                  2                  3                4 to 6
pality    Income   Fraction  Income  Fraction  Income  Fraction  Income  Fraction
US$/     of Min.   US$/    of Min.   US$/    of Min.   US$/    of Min.
month*   Sal.**    month*  Sal.**    month*  Sal.**    month*  Sal.**
Nataga      78        0.6      99       0.8      101       0.8
Cumaral    123        1.0      144      1.7      170       1.4
Quibdo      119       1.0     273       2.2      474      3.8        -        -
ERAS        109      0.8       147      1.2      292      2.3      296       2.4
Maicao      156       1.2      183      1.5      263      2.1        -        -
Sincelejo    92      0.7       157      1.3      270      2.2      241        1.9
* US$ (I US$ = CoP$2,229, Dec, 2000)
** I Minimum Salary is approximately US$130 (December, 2000)
3. Current Level of Water and Sewerage Services in Project Focus Area: Coverage and Continuity
The level of water and sanitation services in medium size cities and small municipalities which are
potential participants in the project is currently quite low. Nominal average water coverage in the project
area is estimated at about 75% for water and about 50% for sewerage (see table 1), however, the effective
water coverage, taking into account continuity of supply and water quality, is only about 45% in medium
cities and less than 30% in small municipalities. Also, service delivery is focused on providing water to
high income areas. The poor and unreliable water and sanitation services, especially in low income areas,
have significant negative social implications, which are demonstrated through the case study of Quibd6, a
medium size city with a population of about 100,000 inhabitants. The water distribution network covers
less than 30% of the city's population. Hospital, health posts and schools are located outside the service
area. Service continuity within the served area reaches only 6 hours/day. Most of the households in the
city collect rain water for washing and even cooking. Water, where and when available, is drawn by
households who can afford to built a storage tank or install a pump which draws directly from the supply
line. A pump owner deprives ten surrounding households from receiving water. Purchase of bottled water
is widespread and the associated costs form part of the daily household expenses. Small private providers
fetch water from contaminated water courses and distribute it to consumers using donkeys for
transportation. A significant amount of the household budget is spend on buying water from alternative
providers and it is usually the low income segments of the population that depends most on alternatives
water supply sources. As usual, women and children suffer most from the burden of the lack of a reliable
public water supply system. Households do not consider the water to which they have access as safe for
drinking. As a general practice, water is boiled before use, thereby increasing its costs. Water supply is
considered to be the most unreliable services, trailing far behind the electricity and telecommunication
services, which receive a high rating in terms of service reliability.
Table I provides data on average coverage rates of water and sewerage in each department in the
Caribbean zone. Of the seven departments included in the project area, all except one (Atlantico) have a
lower water and sewerage coverage rates than the national averages.
Table 4 provides data coverage rates and continuity of the water service in the sample municipalities. The
coverage of water in the sample of municipalities studied does not exceed, on the average, 71% of the
total population. The data demonstrate that the higher the socio-conomic strata, the higher is the coverage
of water and sewerage services. Data on service continuity show that in most of the sample
municipalities, especially in the ones located in the Caribbean region, the service is not continuous and is
provided only during a fraction of the time (between 12% to 53% of the time). That is an indication of
the poor level of the water service provided. No data were collected regarding the quality of the water
supplied, but it is estimated that treatment level does not always correspond to the standards, so the
general conclusion is that the level of water supply service in the sample municipalities is rather low.



Page 123
Table 4: Water Coverage and Continuity of Supply per Strata in the Sample Munic palities
Strata                               Total
Municipality         1               2                 3              4 a 6      Cove-
Cover-  Conti-  Cover-  Conti-   Cover-  Conti-   Cov-  Conti-   rage
age     nuity  age      nuity    age      nuity    erage  nuity    (%)
(%)    (Hrs/  (%)       (Hrs/   (%)       (Hrs/   ()   (Hrsl
Week)           Week)             Week)          Week)
Nataga          65%      99     80%       93     100%      100                    99%
Cumaral         22%     92      95%       24     100%      30               -     92%
Quibdo          2%      23      26%       6      66%        6                     23%
ERAS            87%     21      95%      21      96%       20     80%      12    92%
Maicao          30%      36     41%      n.a      63%      na       -       -     36%
Sincelejo       68%      16     94%      21      95%       26     95%      26     89%
Sample          31%             71%              87%              93%      12    71%
Data on sewerage coverage per strata in the sample municipalities are presented in Table 5. The
Sewerage coverage rates are low in ERAS, Maicao and Quibdo and are higher in the other municipalities
of the sample.
Table 5: Sewerage Coverage per Strata in the Sample Municipalities
Strata                               Cove-
Municipality         1                                3              4 a 6       rage
Conne    %    Connec    %        Connec   %    Conne    %
ctions          tions             tions          ctions
Nataga           65    65%       80      80%      100    100%     0       0      81%
Cumaral          26     22%    1,000    90%       496    90%      0       0      67%
Quibdo          107    1%       1,478    19%     2,364   65%      0       0      23%
ERAS           2,484   30%    6,371    65%       3,196   90%    787    77%       57%
Maicao          817    15%    3,962    35%       2,749   63%      0       0      36%
Sincelejo      10,719   74%    16,281    94%    13,621   95%    6,276    95      89%
4. Expected Project Impact on the Water and Sewerage Services and on Their Provision to
Inhabitants of Low Income Areas
All the water supply related problems are expected to be relieved in the municipalities which will
participate in the project. Expected direct project benefits include improvement of the water and
sanitation services in terms of coverage, continuity, water quality, water loss reduction, treatment of
wastewater and more. Indirect project benefits include improved public health and reduction in water
borne diseases, improvement in living conditions, urban development and a new and efficient allocation
of the municipal budget (currently, municipalities are financing the inefficiencies of the water utilities
such as high expenses for overstaffing, high water losses and more). Nonetheless, the project might also
generate negative social effects like increase in tariffs and possible lay-offs of utility employees.
As an example, in ERAS, a regional water supply system that covers 5 municipalities with a total of about
1 00,000 inhabitants, the nominal water coverage is 91% but in a significant part of the city water is
available only 12 hours per week. The sewage coverage is 57%. Over a horizon of 5 years, the project
goal is to increase the coverage up to 98% in water and 80% in sewage. In Cumaral, a small municipality
with about 9,000 inhabitants and a high coverage of services, 90% for both water and sewerage, the
problem is the quality of the service, its continuity and the lack of capacity of the utility to provide service
to new consumers. These problems will be resolved by project implementation.
The project's strategy and design establish specific mechanisms to ensure that low income neighborhoods
will benefit from the project investments and that the level of water and sanitation services in these
neighborhoods will improve. This would be achieved by including in the operation contracts targets for
water and sewerage coverage in low income neighborhoods and by identifying the specific locations of
the low income areas to which the services will be extended.



Page 124
5. Socio-Economic Burden of the Water Cost
5.1 Before project
On average, 8.1% of the household income in the sample of municipalities studied is currently spent on
purchase of water. The expenses on purchase of water may be as high as 10.5% for the lower socio-
economic strata and 6.8% for the higher strata. The cost of water depends significantly on to the water
supply source available. In general, the cost of the water distributed by the existing public supply network
is significantly lower than the cost of water provided by alternative suppliers (bottled water, water trucks).
In Maicao, a medium size municipality in the Caribbean region, the existing water supply service is
provided only to 36% of the population. In the poorer neighborhoods of the city this coverage is only 30%
while in the wealthiest areas it reaches 63%. The socio-economic impact of this low coverage is
tremendous. Currently, the spending on water, a basic human necessity, consumes up to 19% of the
income of the poorer households and up to 16% of the income of wealthier households. consumers from
all socio-economic strata in this municipality have to buy bottled water and water delivered by trucks, the
cost of which averages US$ 2.90 per m3 compared to a cost of less than US$ 0.30 per m3 delivered
through the existing public supply network. The average household water consumption from the existing
water supply network does not exceed 1 Om3 per month because of insufficient supply, and a similar
volume has to be bought from alternative suppliers to obtain 20m3 per month, considered an adequate
average household monthly consumption.
Sincelejo is another municipality where the cost of water is extremely high. In this case, the coverage of
the existing water network is quite high: 89% of the households are connected to the network. However,
continuity of service is low and water is available only 16 hours per week in the poor neighborhoods, and
26 hours in the wealthier areas (out of 168 hours the week). In Sincelejo, expenses on purchase of water
consumes up to 17% of the income of the poor households and up to 1 1% of the income of and wealthier
households.
In other municipalities, where the level of water services is higher, the cost of water is significantly lower.
This is the case in the municipalities of ERAS, Nataga and Cumaral, where the current cost of water does
not exceed 5% of the household income on the average, and consumption ranges from 15 m3 to 24 m3
per months.
5.2 After project
Considering the project targets with respect to improving the coverage and the level of services, as well as
the subsidy policy applied under the project, it is expected that its impact on the household expenses on
water will vary, depending on the pre-project level of services as follows:
(iv) if the current service is extremely poor and forces households to buy water from alternative
suppliers, it is expected that the social impact of the project will be remarkably positive for all the
socio-economic strata: water consumption will increase and the expenses on purchase of water will
decrease (by up to 13% in stratum I in Maicao);
(v) if the current service already reaches a reasonable coverage rate and quality, the project's social
impacts are also expected to be positive, however, it would provide different benefits to different
socio-economic strata: the poor, who in general receive currently services of lower quality, will
benefit from improved services while the wealthier will continue to receive good services. Under
this scenario, the consumers in all socio-economic strata will spend more on the purchase of water,
however, the increase in the expenses on water purchase will not be higher than 5. 1% (stratum 2
ERAS) and smaller in the other municipalities. This level of increase in expenses will not have a
significant effect on the households socio-economic conditions.
(vi) For consumers in all the socio-economic strata, in both scenarios the monthly expenses on purchase
of water after the project (i.e., the monthly water bills) will not exceed, on average, 8% of monthly
household income and in most cases it will be lower than that (in the range of 4 to 8%).



Page 125
5.3 Percentage of Expenses on Water Purchase in Respect to Household Income Before and After
Project Implementation
Tables 6,7 and 8 provide data on the percentage of the monthly expenses on water in respect to household
income for the different socio-economic strata before and after project implementation. The monthly
expenses on water before project include expenses on all water sources (water supplied by the public
utility, trucked water, bottled water etc.), while the expenses after project are practically those paid to the
private operator, i.e., the monthly water bill. The bills after project implementation were estimated on the
basis of the tariffs agreed upon with the mayors of the municipalities of the sample during preparation.
In Maicao and Sincelejo, the water bills are expected to significantly decrease because the current level of
service in these cities is very low and the expenses on water purchased from alternative suppliers is high,
however after project implementation water will not be purchased from alternative suppliers. In the other
municipalities of the sample, the water bills are expected to moderately increase.
Table 6: Percentage of Expenses on Water Purchase in Respect to Household Income Before
Proiect
Municipality       Percentage of Ex enses on Water Purchase in Respect to Household Income
1             2 __ _4 to 5                              Average
Nataga              3.3%           3.0%/o         4.4%                          3.6%
Cumaral             3.3%           3.8%           6.7%                          4.6%
Quibdo              8.1%           6.6%           3.9%            -             6.1%
ERAS                6.2%           2.7%           3.8%           4.6%           4.8%
Maicao              19.1%          16.8%          14.8%            -           16.7%
Sincelejo           17.6%          15.0%          8.8%           4.7%          12.2%
Note: Based on current water consumption
Table 7: Percentage of Water Bill in Respect to Household Income After Project
Municipality               Pe centage of Water Bill in Respect to Household Income
1             2              3            4 to 5        Average
Nataga              5.5%           5.0%           5.9%                          5.9%
Cumaral             6.0%           6.0%           5.0%                          5.5%
Quibdo              4.4%           2.7%           1.7%             -            2.7%
ERAS                9.7%           7.8%           4.9%           5.4%           8.0%
Maicao              6.5%           6.5%           5.6%            -             6.4%
Sincelejo           6.9%           3.8%           2.2%           4.9%           4.0%
Note: Based on a consumption of 20 m3 per month in all strata
Table 8: Project Impact: Increase of Expenses on Purchase of Water as a Result of Project
Implementation
Municipality                          Percentage Increase in Expenses
1             2              3            4to 5         Average
Nataga              2.2%           2.0%           1.5%                          2.3%
Cumaral             2.7%          -1.5%          -2.3%       =                 -5.5%
Quibdo             -3.7%           -3.9%          -2.2%            -           -7.3%
ERAS                3.5%           5.1%           1.1%           1.1%          -3.2%
Maicao             -13.0%         -10.3%         -9.2%                        -10.3%
Sincelejo          -10.7%         -11.2%         -6.6%          -0.2%          -8.2%
Worth noting is the fact that the increase of tariffs and monthly bills charged by the utilities is higher than
the increase in the real expenses for purchase of water since the real expenses include payments to all
providers, including alternative providers.



Page 126
5.4 Level of Water Tariffs Required to Obtain the Same Service Targets if the Project Subsidy
Policy Would not be Applied
If the policy subsidy proposed under the project would not be applied, an additional tariff increase would
be required in order to achieve the same service targets proposed by the project. The additional tariff
increase required in this case, on top of the tariff increase already included in the project would be:
| Municipality             |  Nataga  | Cumaral         ERAS         Maicao  |  Sincelejo
Additional Tariff Increase    130%         90%          30%          60%           5%
The average monthly bill per strata in the "with project" case for the two scenarios: (i) project subsidy
policy applied; and (ii) project subsidy policy not applied, is presented in Table 9. The additional tariff
increase vary for each municipality and can be moderate or significantly high, according to the additional
investments required.
Table 9: Monthly Water Bill per Strata With and Without Project Subsidy Policy, for the "With
Project" Scenario
______________  Monthly Water Bill per strata (USS/Month)                 l
Municip-         1                2                 3               4 to 5           Average
ality      With     No      With      No      With      No      With      No      With     No
Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy  Subsidy
Nataga     2.9      6.7      3.4      7.8      4.0      9.2                       4.3      9.8
Cumaral    4.7      8.9      5.3      10.0     5.9     11.2       -       -        5.3     10.1
ERAS       7.8      10.0     8.5      11.0     10.3    13.4     11.4    14.8      9.5      12.4
Maicao     7.6      12,1     9.2     14.8      12.3    19.7      -        -        9.7     15.5
Sincelejo    5.3    5.5      5.3      5.5      5.3      5.5     12.6     13.2     7.3      7.6
Note: Based on a consumption of 20 m3 per month in all strata
It can be noted that without the project subsidy policy, the monthly bills, especially for the low income
strata will increase to levels which will present a meaningful economic burden.
6. Experience Regarding the Performance of Private Water Operators with Respect to Services in
Low Income Neighborhoods
The performance of the public water utilities in Colombia is unsatisfactory, as reflected in low coverage
rates of water and sewerage and low quality of services, particularly in the poor areas. Critical financial
constraints, excessive labor force and administrative failures of the public service providers contribute to
this problem. Participation of private operators may offer a remedy.
The first private operation in a large city began in Cartagena in 1995. Barranquilla followed soon the route
of PSP. Today, the private sector is operating water supply and sanitation services in 47 municipalities in
Colombia (14 large to medium size and 33 small municipalities). During the next three years, additional
municipalities are expected incorporate the private sector in the management and operation of their water
services.
The common perception of the population is that the private sector's only interest is profits and therefore it
provides a better service to wealthy areas and neglects low income poor neighborhoods. However, during
the last five years, the municipalities operated by the private sector have experienced significant increase in
the coverage of the water and sewage services, including in low income areas. Total water coverage in
Cartagena went from 68% to 86%, in Barranquilla from 89% to 94% and in Tunja from 89% to 98%.
Increases in coverage rates occurred also in low income areas (defned as strata I and 2 neighborhoods).
With respect to provision of services to the poor, the private operators performed as well as the utility of
Medellin (EPM), which is the most efficient public utility in Colombia, and better than utilities of Bogota
and Manizales, which are of the best public utilities in the country (see Annex 19).



Page 127
The main reason for the satisfactory performance of private operators is the need to expand the number of
consumers, in order to reduce the impact of fixed costs. This leads to three behavioral patterns of the private
sector that benefit the poor:
(i) Generally, at the beginning of the project, services coverage for the poorest strata households is
lower than that of the rest of the population. Necessarily the lowest strata must be served in order to
increase the size of the water market.
(ii) Private operators are better able than public operator to provide short-term investment in new
connections supported by marketing and commercial strategies focused on capturing new clients.
(iii) Public operators often postpone investment in new connections in lower strata population,
particularly in those subnormal or illegal neighborhoods, whereas, private operators design
strategies like common connections, incentives for long-term payments for connection, etc. Indeed,
experience in Colombia shows that private operators provided alternative water supply solutions to
irregular settlements. They are also providing free water to localities which in the short term have
not yet received a legal status and do not receive regular service. Publicly owned water utilities do
not provide water to irregular settlement, justifying that approach by legislation which prohibits
such action before the settlement is legalized.
7. Consensus Building and Community Participation Strategy
Community participation is considered a key element in the strategy to ensure the sustainability of the
Project. It can contribute to the project success, although by itself it does not guarantee the success. Lack
of community participation may constitute a threat to the project in terms of timing and transaction costs.
Because of the diversity of the communities involved, the mechanisms of participation must be tailored
for each case to fit local conditions.
Community participation fulfills three purposes:
(1) Achieving community consensus regarding the lack of coverage and the poor quality of water and
sanitation services;
(2) Promoting the project and the advantages of private participation, providing information about
positive effects and mitigation measures aiming at avoiding negative effects, thereby providing a
process through which the community can resolve questions and doubts about the project;
(3) Promoting and strengthening community oversight of private sector participation in order to ensure
the sustainability of the process.
Community participation strategy has been designed in six steps in accordance with the project execution
process:
(1) PSP Promotion. The Ministry of Economic Development presents information about the project to
the municipality's mayor and staff, to representatives of the municipal council and to the public water
company staff.;
(2) Institutional agreement. In those municipalities in which an agreement between the Ministry and local
authorities is reached, consulting services are hired for preparing engineering studies (investment
programs for medium size cities and detailed designs for small municipalities). Through the media,
the community is informed about the agreement, the studies and the consultation process designed to
involve all the key stakeholders;
(3) The third step is subdivided into two stages:
3.1     Diagnosis and alternatives for the development of the project. A diagnosis of the
water and sanitation services at the municipal level is prepared involving the community and
local leaders in several events, which creates concrete opportunities to carry out a consultation
process with respect to the community needs and the impact of the project. This allows the
community to become familiar with the project. During this process the municipal authorities



Page 128
are the main sponsor of the participation process, while the Ministry of Economic Development
acts as an advisor and coordinator;
3.2 Selection of the operational alternative and definition of the terms of the contract. Once the
possible technical and financial alternatives to undertake the services reform are identified, an
agreement with local authorities and community representatives regarding project's conditions,
such as investment requirements, financing sources, tariffs, and mitigation plans for utility
employees lay-offs is established. The community has the opportunity to express its perceptions
about the process and resolve any doubts in order to promote their support of the project and its
approval by the municipal authorities. This phase will successfully conclude when the proposed
reform obtains a favorable public opinion. Without such support, mayors will be reluctant to
proceed with the reform. In medium size cities, the project does not seek a formal support from
the communities, because of the large number of consumers. However, in small municipalities,
the discussion of the community needs and the project proposals and impacts benefits from a
much closer contact with the community members and local leaders. Nevertheless, even in
small municipalities, a formal approval from communities has not been conceived as a target
for the participatory strategy, since the willingness to pay is related to the service improvement,
which in turn, will come gradually, so it is considered that support to the project will increase
with time, after the take over by the private operator of responsibility for the provision of the
services, and the approach of obtaining a formal up-front community approval as a condition of
eligibility is not considered advisable.
(4) Public bidding. At this step, the community, represented by municipal authorities from the executive
and legislative bodies, oversees the public bidding process in order to accomplish clearness,
responsibility and sound economic principles. Suitable information mechanisms are designed for
community oversight;
(5) Transition from public to private operator. The objective is to achieve the community support for the
new operator. Open forums, work meetings and periodical bulletins can be effective tools. Also,
promotion of Development and Social Control Committees inside the private utility must be
accomplished as a mechanism required by national law in order to guarantee community participation
in the water and sewage services operation;
(6) Private operation. During the phase of operation and management of the systems by the private
sector, public participation will take the form of creation and operation of the "veedurias populares",
public committees whose task is to act as independent public reviewers of the performance of the
private operators, and will provide information to the public, as means of ensuring utility
accountability to consumers. These committees act in accordance with Law 134 of 1994
(Mechanisms of Participation, article 100). The project will ensure financial and technical support to
promote the creation and enforcement of these committees.
8. Mitigation Measures for Labor Force Reduction and Tariff Increases
Impacts on labor and tariffs may imply risk for the PSP processes. The number of employees of the water
utilities will most probably decrease in order to reduce labor redundancy, thereby resolving one of the
main causes of utility inefficiency. Tariffs will rise to cover costs of improved water and sanitation
services. Both issues require mitigation mechanisms, focused on offsetting adverse consequences of
unemployment and consumers dissatisfaction with higher tariffs.
8.1 Labor Issues
PSP reform in water utilities usually involves reduction in labor force aimed at improving efficiency. In
Cartagena the ratio of employees per 1000 connections descended from 15 to 2.4 as a result of the PSP



Page 129
reform; in Barranquilla from 5.4 to 3.4 and in Tunja from 5 to 3.718. The project aims to support the
reform of 2-3 medium size water utilities and about 25 small municipalities. The estimated total number
of employees in medium-size utilities is between 300 to 500 while 100-150 workers are employed in the
small municipalities target by the project. In the worst case scenario, the number of employees in the
medium-size utilities might be reduced by half under private operation, whereas it is not expected to be
reduced in small municipalities. The labor problem associated with the project is not concentrated in one
city but spread over a large area. Also, the reduction in the number of employees will not take place in
the same time in all the effected utilities, but will rather spread over a period of 3-4 years.
Several mitigation measures will be incorporated in the project in order to ease the labor problem. First,
voluntary separation programs will be offered to all participating municipalities (medium and small).
Secondly, two other strategies will be implemented:
(i)    Labor Adaptation Program (Programa de Adaptaci6n Laboral PAL) is suitable for all size
municipalities. It focuses on the treatment of individual employees needs. It is part of the
municipal administration and the public operator responsibilities to insure that mitigation
measures be incorporated. The PAL program is based on individual counseling aimed at
identifying employment alternatives, psychological support, retraining and providing
information on other alternatives such as the establishment of workers association enterprises
or cooperatives. PAL requires participation of specialized private operator human resources
as social workers, psychologists, training experts; it can be developed with the assistance
Colombian NGO's which have relevant expertise (nearly 50 of them are available in the
country). The estimated cost of such support attain US$162 per employee involved in the
PAL.
(ii)    Associative work cooperatives (Cooperativas asociativas de Trabajo CAT)'9. This strategy is
suitable for medium and large utilities with enough employees for the constitution of a
cooperative (with more than 25 members). The project will encourage the constitution of
CAT which can carry out some activities of water supply and sanitation such as construction,
maintenance and operation.
8.2 Tariff Increase Mitigation
Private operation implies higher tariffs when water and sewage services need to be improved. Cross
subsidies are part of the design of the tariff structure in Colombia and have proven to be an effective
mechanism for income redistribution in large urban areas ( "Gasto Social y Desigualdad: Logros y
Extravios", C. Velez, DNP, 1996). However, since there are so many municipalities in which the entire
population is classified as residing in low income areas, the cross subsidy mechanism loses it's effect. To
overcome this problem, Law 142 created a specific mechanism, the Solidarity Funds, to allow better
service to low-income groups while helping utilities maintain their financial resources, by providing an
additional direct subsidy to the service provider. However, Solidarity Funds management is the
responsibility of the municipalities and these funds are supposed to be financed from municipal public
resources. Due to budget shortfalls, the municipalities do not have available resources and the solidarity
funds concept has not been put to practice, i.e., in most cases these funds have not yet been constituted.
Although the project will induce tariff increases, those will take into account the willingness and capacity
to pay. The existing cross subsidy tariff systems effective in Colombia will apply in the municipalities
participating in the project and will ease the burden on the poor. In addition, the project has been
designed in such a manner that residents of low income areas (strata 1,2 and 3) will receive as a subsidy
18 International standard indicates 2 employees per 1000 connections. In small municipalities this standard is not
appropriate.
,9 Associative work cooperatives are one of the two alternatives of Organized associative work (the other are
associative work enterprises), recognized by the Colombian law as a mechanism to create flexible work market and
as an alternative to unemployment. CAT do not imply a direct labor contract with the private operator and are
suitable for outsourcing activities.



Page 130
the benefits generated by the project investments. This subsidy policy would be very significant for small
municipalities, in which the government will be financing a major portion of the investments. In regard to
house connection costs, private operators will be encouraged and will have their own incentives to
provide soft term financing to consumers in low income areas. In certain cases, when warranted,
financing for house connections might be provided by the project.
The above mechanism can be supported with an educational program for the community, focused on
demonstrating that service improvement justifies higher tariffs. An emphasis should be made on the
creation of a collective conscience that there is no better option, and that alternative water sources are
even more expensive than the cost resulting from the new tariffs. The educational program must be
developed by the private operator through a multidisciplinary group interacting closely with community
leaders and organizations previously identified. The private operator of Barranquilla, has a very positive
experience on this matter.



Page 131
Annex 14: Potential Participating Municipalities
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The Potential Market of Medium Size Cities in the Caribbean Region with
Populations Greater than 12,000 Inhabitants
SEWAGE
COVERAGE RATES    Water Treatment Plant   TREAT.
PLANT
No. MUNICIPALITY  DPART.      ~POPULATION                             EXISTS    FUNCTIONS      EXISTS
No. MUNICIPALITY          DPART            u1997       WATER (97)  SEWAGE 197) (YES-NO)   (YES-NO)      (YES-NO)
1  SANTA LUCIA           ATLANTICO            12,681       90.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
2  CHIRIGUANA            CESAR                12,983       95.00%      50.00%    NO         NO           YES
3  CHIMICHAGUA           CESAR                13,397       70.00%      50.00/   NO         NO           YES
4  EL RETEN              MAGDALENA            13,545       16.10%       0.00%   YES          NO           NO
5  LA JAGUA IBIRICO      CESAR                14,500       90.00%      70.00%   YES          NO          YES
6  REPELON               ATLANTICO            15.564       60.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
7  SAMPUES               SUCRE                15,834       78.00      47.00%   YES         YES           NO
8  SAN BENITO ABAD       SUCRE                16,410       58.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
9  GALAPA                ATLANTICO            16,753       80.00%       1.00%   YES         YES           NO
10 EL COPEY               CESAR               17,249       90.00%      40.00%   YES         YES           NO
11 MARIA LA BAJA          BOLIVAR             17,473       80.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
12 CHINU                  CORDOBA              17.535      95.00%      84.00%   YES         YES           YES
13 CIENAGADEORO           CORDOBA             17,914       93.00%      48.00%   YES         YES           NO
14 SABANAGRANDE           ATLANTICO           18,099       90.00%      60.00%   YES         YES           YES
15 SAN JACINTO            BOLIVAR             18.640       80.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
16 CURUMANI               CESAR               18,882       83,00%      40.00%   YES         YES           YES
17 AYAPEL                 CORDOBA             18,995       97.00%      21.00%   YES         YES           NO
18 SANTO TOMAS            ATLANTICO           20,878       90.00%      60.00%   YES         YES           YES
19 SUCRE                  SUCRE               21,423      100.00%      84.00%1 YES           NO           NO
20 ARIGUANI               MAGDALENA           21,439       80.00%       0.00%   YES          NO            NO
21  CAMPO DE LA CRUZ      ATLANTICO           21 862       60.00%       0.00%   YES         YES            NO
22 TOLU                   SUCRE               22,419       74.00%      30.00%   YES          NO           YES
23 PALMAR DE VARELA       ATLANTIGO           22,671       90.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
24 BOSCONIA               CESAR               23,381       80.00%      74.00%    NO          NO           YES
25 MOMPOS                 BOLIVAR             23.555       86.00%      30.00%   YES         YES           NO
26 ARACATACA              MAGDALENA           24.252       77.00%      30.00%   YES          NO           YES
27 SAN JUAN NEPOMUCENO   BOLIVAR              24.348       73.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
28 SINCE                  SUCRE               25,446       88.00%      50.00%   YES          NO           NO
29 SAN JUAN DEL CESAR     GUAJIRA             25,770       56.80%      29.50%   YES          NO           YES
30 TIERRALTA              CORDOBA             25,949       97.00%      12.00%   YES         YES           NO
31 PIVIJAY                MAGDALENA           28,313       75.00%      55.00%   YES         YES           YES
32 MONTELIBANO            CORDOBA             29.834       93.00%      60.00%   YES         YES           YES
33 SAN MARCOS             SUCRE               30.509       53.00%      10.00%   YES          NO           NO
34 SAN ONOFRE             SUCRE               30.996       85.00%       2.00%   YES          NO           NO
35 LORICA                 CORDOBA             33.944       92.00%      70.00%   YES         YES           YES
36 PLANETA RICA           CORDOBA             34.786       71.00%      12.00%   YES          NO           NO
37 COROZAL                SUCRE               37,198       90.00%      76.00%   YES         YES           NO
38 BARANOA                ATLANTICO           37,710       70.00%      20.00%   YES         YES           NO
39 AGUSTIN CODAZZI        CESAR               42.655       90.00%      90.00%   YES         YES           YES
40 ARJONA                 BOLIVAR             42.950       80.00%      0.00%   YES         YES           NO
41 EL CARMEN DE BOLIVAR   BOLIVAR             43,900       55.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
42 SAN ANDRES             SAN ANDRES          46,256       39.00%      56.00%   YES         YES           NO
43 CERETE                 CORDOBA             46,425       81.00%      41.00%   YES         YES           NO
44 TURBACO                BOLIVAR             46,486       80.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
45 EL BANCO               MAGDALENA           46.898       57.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
46 SAHAGUN                CORDOBA             46,953       95.00%      31.00%   YES         YES           YES
47 SABANALARGA            ATLANTICO           53,354       60.00%      60 00%   YES          NO           NO
48 AGUACHICA              CESAR               59,807       71.10%      48.80%   YES         YES           NO
49 MAGANGUE               BOLIVAR             77,343       80.00%      50.00%   YES         YES           NO
50 MAICAO                 GUAJIRA            101.381       25.42%      41.00%   YES          NO           YES
51 SINCELEJO              SUCRE              208.091       82.00%      70.00%   YES         YES           NO
52 VALLEDUPAR             CESAR           _249559          93.00%      88.00%    YES        YES           YES
53 SOLEDAD                ATLANTICO          280.500       80.00%     50.00%   YES         YES           YES



Page 132
The Potential Market of Small Municipalities in the Caribbean Region
With Populations Below 12,000 Inhabitants
SEWAGE
COVERAGE RATES         WATER TREAT. PLANT   TREAT.
PLANT
POPULATION                                EXISTS    FUNCTIONS       EXISTS
No. MUNICIPALITY           DPT.              1997        WATER (97)   SEWAGE (97) (YES-NO)   (YES-NO)       (YES-NO)
1  SAN CRISTOBAL          BOLIVAR                   0        100.00/%      0.00%    YES        YES            NO
2  SAN FERNANDO           BOLIVAR               1,646         90.000/0     0.00%    YES        YES            NO
3  MARGARITA              BOLIVAR               1,782         80.00%      0.00%    YES         NO            NO
4  PROVIDENCiA            SAN ANDRES            1,829                  _
5  LOS CORDOBAS           CORDOBA               1,854         82.00/     46.00%    YES         YES           NO
6  CANALETE               CORDOBA               2,257         75.000/     45.00%    YES         YES           NO
7  SAN JACINTO DEL CAUCA   BOLIVAR              2,356
8  REGIDOR                BOLIVAR               2,439        100.00%       o.oo%    YES        YES            NO
9  CHIMA                  CORDOBA      _        2510          74.00%      49.00%    YES        YES            NO
10 CAIMITO                SUCRE                 2,537         100.00%      0.00/   YES         YES           NO
11  CHALAN                SUCRE                 2, 5986
12 HATILLO DE LOBA        BOLIVAR               2,813          95.00%      0.00%   YES          YES           NO
13 PUERTO ESCONDIDO       CORDOBA               2.854         100.00%      0.00%    YES         NO            NO
14 PIOJO                  ATLANTICO             2,895          40.00%      0.00/    NO         NO            NO
15 TIQUISIO               BOLIVAR               2,918          90.00%     70.00%    YES          NO           NO
16 PEDRAZA                MAGDALENA             2,921          47.00%      0.000/   YES         NO            NO
17 SAN CARLOS             CORDOBA               3.092          82.00%     63.00%    YES         YES           NO
18 PALMITO                SUCRE                 3,304          74.00%     74.00%   YES          YES           NO
19 EL PENON               BOLIVAR               3,339          95.00%      000A%   YES          YES           NO
20 PINILLOS                BOLIVAR               3,463         95.00%     80.00%    YES         YES           NO
21  COTORRA                CORDOBA               3,578         35.00%      0.00%    YES          NO           NO
22 DIBULLA                 GUAJIRA               3,650         68.500A      0.00%    YES         NO           NO
23 COLOSO                  SUCRE                 3,761
24 CANTAGALLO              BOL VAR               3,803        100.00%     30.00%   YES          YES           NO
25 LA UNION                SUCRE                 3,848         92.00%     19.00%    YES          NO           YES
26 ALTOS DEL ROSARIO       BOLIVAR               3,863         75.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
27 MORALES                 BOLIVVAR              3,871         80.00%     90.000/0   YES         NO           YES
28 SAN ZENON               MAGDALENA             3,893         80.00%     60.00%    YES          NO           YES
29 MONITOS                 CORDOBA               4,054         66.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
30 GONZALEZ                CESAR                 4,101         80.00%     40.00%    NO           NO           NO
31  MORROA                 SUCRE                 4.229         63.00%     45.00%    YES          NO           NO
32 EL GUAMO                BOL VAR              4,249
33 PIJINO DEL CARMEN       MAGDALENA            4,326          74.10%      0.00%    YES          NO           NO
34 ARENAL                  BOLIVAR               4,348         95.00%      0.00%    NO           NO           NO
35 MONTECRISTO             BOL VAR               4,378         90.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
36 TAMALAMEQUE             CESAR                 4,402         83.20%       0.00%    YES         NO           NO
37 BARRANCO DE LOBA        BOLIVAR               4,480         90.00%     50.00%    YES         YES           YES
38 IURIB A                 GUAJIRA               4,593         49.50%     20.00%    YES         YES           YES
39 SANTA CATALINA          BOLIVAR               4,706         85.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
40 GUARANDA                SUCRE                 4,707         78.00%       0.00%   YES          NO           NO
41  BUENAVISTA             CORDOBA               4,712         93.00%     60.00%    NO           NO           NO
42 ELPASO                  CESAR                 4,840         95.000/n    40.000/    NO         NO           YES
43 SIMITI                  BOLIVAR               4,879        100.00%        0.000/   YES       YES           NO
44 LA GLORIA               CESAR                 4,995         70.00%     70.00%    YES         YES           NO
45 TALA GUA NUEVO          BOL VAR               5,053         90.00%     40.00%   YES          YES           NO
46 SAN PELAYO              CORDOBA               5,126         98.00%     30.00/   YES         YES           NO
47 SAN SEBASTIAN DE BUENAV MAGDALENA             5.1561        76.50%       0.000/   YES         NO           NO
48 RIO VIEJO               BOLIVAR               5,184         92.000/    80.000/    YES        YES           YES
49 SALAMINA                MAGDALENA             5.311         61.04%      0.00%   YES           NO           NO
50 SANANDRESSOTAVENTO  CORDOBA                   5,357         85.00%     90.00%   YES          YES          YES
51 CORDOBA                 BOLIVAR              5,462          90.00%      0.00%    YES         YES           NO
52 RIO DE ORO              CESAR                5,518          77.50%     77.40/    YES         NO           NO
53 EL PINON                MAGDALENA             5,711         82.90%      0.00%   YES          NO            NO
54  MANAURE                GUAJIRA              5,741          67. 00    47 00     YES         NO            YES
55 CERRO SAN ANTONIO       MAGDALENA            5,899          76.30%     0.00%   YES         YES           NO



Page 133
The Potential Market of Small Municipalities in the Caribbean Region
With Populations Below 12,000 Inhabitants-Cont.
SEWAGE
COVERAGE RATES         WATER TREAT. PLANT   TREAT.
PLANT
No. MUNICIPALITY           DPT.              1997        WATER (97)   SEWAGE (97) (YEXSTS  FUNCIONS         (YESS-OS
56 TUBARA                  ATLANTICO             5,915         70.00%       0.00%    YES         NO           NO
57 PURISIMA                CORDOBA              5,936          95.00%     70.00%    YES         YES           YES
58 SAN MARTIN              CESAR                6,022          90.90%     42.40%    YES         NO            NO
59 MANAURE BALCON DEL CES CESAR                 6,077          97.00%     38.500/o   YES        NO            YES
60 BUENAVISTA              SUCRE                6,143          95.00%     20.00%    YES         YES           YES
61  TOLUVIEJO              SUCRE                6,328          96.00%     77,00%    YES          NO           YES
62 CICUCO5                 BOLIVAR              6,350          80.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
63 SANTA ROSA DEL SUR      BOLIVAR              6,496          90.00%     90.00/   YES         YES           NO
64  MOMIL                  CORDOBA              6,619          76.00%      17.00%    YES        YES           NO
65 TENERIFE                MAGDALENA            6,637          72.40%       000%    YES         NO            NO
66  ACHI                   BOLIVAR              6,667          70.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
67  CLEMENCIA              BOLIVAR               6,841         70.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
68 GAMARRA                 CESAR                 6,982         92.00%       0.00/   YES         NO           NO
69 SAN MARTIN DE LOBA      BOLIVAR              7,049          90.00%     60.00%    YES         YES           YES
70 REMOLINO                MAGDALENA            7,055          80.00%       0.00%    YES         NO           NO
71 SAN DIEGO              CESAR                 7,055          91.30%     80.00%    YES         NO            NO
72 JUAN DE ACOSTA         ATLANTICO             7,129          70.00%      0.00%    NO          NO            NO
73 PUEBLO NUEVO           CORDOBA               7,222          82.00%     30.00%    NO          NO            NO
74 SAN JUAN DE BETULIA    SUCRE                 7,351._
75 SOPLAVIENTO             BOLIVAR              7,534          80.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
76 SAN BERNARDO VIENTO    CORDOBA               7.636          81.00%     30.00%   YES          YES           NO
, 77 USIACURI               ATLANTICO             7,737         60,00%       0.00%    NO          NO            NO
78 GUAMAL                  MAGDALENA            7,899          62.20%      0.00%    YES         NO            NO
79 MAHATES                 BOLIVAR               7.940         70.00%     50.00%    YES         NO            NO
80 ASTREA                 CESAR                 8,200          63.00%     50.00/    NO         NO           YES
81 URUMITA                 GUAJIRA              8,268          62.40%     62.40%   YES          NO           YES
82 MAJAGUAL                SUCRE                8,484         100.00%      0.00%   YES         NO            NO
83 GALERAS                 SUCRE                 8,503         99.00%     34.00A   YES         YES        No Inform
84  LA APARTA0A            CORDOBA               8,558         47.00%       0.00%    NO         NO            NO
85  BECERRIL               CESAR                8,574          96.00%     80.00%   YES          NO           YES
86 PUERTO LIBERTADOR       CORDOBA              8,945          92.00%     35.00%   YES          YES           NO
87 CANDELARIA              ATLANTICO            9,022          40.00%      0 00%   YES          YES           NO
88 ZAMBRANO                BOLIVAR              9.123          8000%       000%   YES           YES           NO
89 TURBANA                 BOL VAR              9,443          80.00%      0.00%   YES          YES           NO
90 PELAYA                  CESAR                9,501          95.000/     000A   YES          NO            NO
91 CHIVOLO                 MAGDALENA            9.525
92 PONEDERA               ATLANTICO             9533           95.00%      0.000%   YES         YES           NO
93 CALAMAR                 BOLIVAR              9,534          75.000/     0.00%   YES          YES           NO
94 VALENCIA                CORDOBA              9,597          98 00/     0.00%   YES          YES           NO
95 SAN ALBERTO             CESAR                9,756          95.500/    76.14%   YES          NO           YES
96 PAILITAS               CESAR                 9,782          97.80%     80.00%   YES          NO           YES
97 SANTA ROSA             BOLIVAR               9,857          60 00%      0.00%   YES          YES           NO
98 SUAN                   ATLANTICO             9,993          40.00%      0.00%    YES         YES           NO
99 POLO NUEVO             ATLANTICO            10,404          60.00%      0.00%   YES          YES           NO
100 SAN ANTERO             CORDOBA              10,679         44.00%      23.00%   YES         YES           NO
101 LURUACO                ATLANTICO            10,699         90.00%       0.00%    YES        YES           NO
102 SAN PEDRO              SUCRE                10,968         97.000/     68.00%   YES         YES           YES
103 SITIONUEVO             MAGDALENA            11.049         40.00%       0.00%   YES          NO           NO
104 LOS PALMITOS           SUCRE                11,090         88 00%      88.00%   YES         YES           YES
105 CVEJAS                 SUCRE                11,339         88.00%      75.00%   YES         YES           NO
106 PUEBLOVIEJO            MAGDALENA            11,452         20.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
107 SAN ESTANISLAO         BOLIVAR              11,532         80.00%       0.00%   YES         YES           NO
108 SAN PABLO              BOLIVAR              11,698         85.00/    60.00%   YES          YES           NO
109 VILLANUEVA             BOLIVAR              11!821         50.000/      0,000    YES        YES           NO
110 SANTA ANA              MAGDALENA            11.841         89.00%     40.00%   YES           NO           YES
111 ROELESILA PAZ)         CESAR                11 88          90.000/    7730/   YES            NO           YES
112  ___MANATj__  ATLANTICO                  11 ,915         40.00A     0.00%   YES          YES           NO



Page 134
Water and Sewerage Utilities with Private Sector Participation in the Caribbean Region
M7MTFTEATNENT SE_
AGE  TRAT                PMST         TREAT.
F'L4N
_ POaJ-.TY                           A11O'J   VATM    : AB E)  EG5TS  R1_US5 NCK     SBO       MIVATVZAlcN              MRATM
1997                                                          ___ (EW  YPO ME
1 B(IWCAS            (LJJIRA         11861        77.40%!   79 50   YES     N        YES                        Cawao ir,4 Tctd vdam
2 B&*A1UllA          AThOfllWC     1.172651       81.40%    83.140   YES     Yes      YES       MiCab                   TidleA
3 CART A             BCUVAR         758.          72 00!    60.0!/  YES     Yes       NO        Ae alr
4   B(E'             M_B_A           76,624       67.70"    57.FM    YES     Yes      YES       Ccm cn            Ooadies cd Samdos
5 'SrR'CQCN          WAJIRA           4,45        91.39/!   51.44M!  YES     NO    NO            Ue     t        Cawdo Irn Tota v ct
6 ELBaOUND           3j.IRA           51Z    51.20'!   51.20/  YES          NO       YES        B               Ccsoxdo Ira Tct v s
7 FCNGtCRAaji                        226r6        61.60'   84.2)!  YES   IN:)        YES             r          Cdo IC   a Tde v os
8 FRILICN            MkGNJA          484,         BOW       1r6.00Y   YES    Yes       NO       IVa                     Pr
9 FATA)              (2AIIRA          5601        8130!    81. 70'!  YES     N        YES                        Qr dao Iru Tci v ob
10 ALAlH            ATLNI1co 8X,5)6              4Q08'!   40 QN!  YES       NO        NO        (ion        U.T. O,aad  de Sd cid d Nrbte
11 MONTERA           (RA             240,         65.00)    26MOO   YES      YES      YES       Canesc               FCC Priiva
12 RATD              MENBA            44.788      88.70!    34RON!  YES      YES       NO                        Aas v Samdos de FLao
13 L CCODC           ATA LANflCO      185W 6 !.00           85W'!  YES       YES      YE        TvBI QltE               Tnde A
14 ROQ'A            (GA3JIRA          87321       75.20'    7200W!  YES      YES       NO       Mxbed Caiatl        Aasdes LaGeira
15 SNTAMORA          M336A42A           B         90.C0     80.00!  YES     YES       NO       Mxed Cap               M
16 UlMAULEVA         SW"RA          1J90          68.33)!    55.30%  YES     YES      YES                        Caisaao Irn Tcd v cbs



Page 135
Annex 15: Model of Private Sector Participation in Water Companies in Colombia's
Medium Size Cities
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
This Annex presents an overview of the Model proposed to be used under the project for private sector
participation in water companies of medium size cities. Of course, this is not the only model which might
be used and it is most probable that others will also be used, however, this is the model which was
developed during project preparation and is considered as best responding to the needs of medium size
cities. It must be bome in mind that for the purpose of better understanding the model, nothing can
replace the thorough reading of the model Bidding documents and draft contract which have been
prepared in the framework of project preparation.
The relationship between the Contracting Authority and the Operator is governed by an Operating
Contract (hereinafter called "the Contract") which may be divided into two principal parts: the
Main Body of the Contract (MBC), comprising all the conditions imposed by the Contracting
Authority that are to be met by the Operator during the course of its work,20 and a Works and
Investment Plan [POI - Plan de Obras e Inversiones] submitted by the Operator in its bid, in
which the Operator undertakes to carry out the work in compliance with all the conditions of the
MBC.
It is immediately realized that it is the MBC that determines the POI. The Consultant
preparing the MBC must ensure that it includes all the requirements to be met by the
Operator, both those concerning operational aspects of the system, as estimated by the
Consultant, and those of a sociopolitical nature that may be imposed by the Contracting
Authority. But care must be taken not to allow excessive and unnecessary requirements
to pile up, since a POI combined with a very demanding MBC will logically be more
expensive than one connected to a more reasonable MBC. The Consultant should
therefore study different alternativesfor the MBC/"indicative POI" correlation,2' until a
reasonable balance is found Whenever the Contracting Authority seeks to impose
excessive demands, which is often the case when rapid results are desired, the Consultant
should counter this by prudently emphasizing that goodfinancial equilibrium is essential
for the Contract.
Among the conditions included in the MBC, a fundamental condition of the Model is the Fixed
Average Tariff for services, in terms of monetary units per inhabitant served per year during the
entire Contract period (obviously with an appropriate price revision formula geared to input
prices, which would adjust tariffs to inflation). It will be necessary to include clauses making it
possible to calculate for each year the number of inhabitants receiving the services, as a function
of the number of residential connections, using an equivalent rate of consumption (for example,
150 liters per inhabitant per day) for nonresidential connections. A three-way breakdown of
services is recommended: (1) water; (2) sewerage; and (3) wastewater treatment.22 The cost of
20    All conditions must be set out clearly and accompanied, as appropriate, by: (1) an indicator for measuring
compliance with the condition concemed; and (2) a system of penalties to be applied when the measured compliance
is unsatisfactory. It is recommended that all penalties be referred to the annual monetary burden per inhabitant (see
below), and that the revision of that parameter be accompanied by a revision of the applicable penalties. No generic
penalties are to be established, since any penalties that do not correspond to this indicator/penalty system would in
effect be arbitrary.
21    The term "indicative POI" refers to the plan drawn up by the Consultant during its studies prior to the
bidding process. Bidders will submit a "Bidder's POI," and the plan submitted by the winning bidder will be called
simply "POI" in all matters relating to performance of the Contract.
22   It is always advisable to include wastewater treatment as a generator of additional income and not merely as
a source of operating costs, otherwise the Operator will be very reluctant to operate treatment systems.



Page 136
the services under (2) and (3) may be correlated to the cost of water for each user, thereby
simplifying the pricing process.
The Fixed Average Tariff multiplied by the number of inhabitants served in a given year
provides the Authorized Annual Billing that the Operator may collect from all users (the
Operator niaturally bearing the risk of collection).23  Thus this is a capped-price system,
similar to those used in certain other types of services. The Tarif Structure will serve to
deduce what each user has to pay in order for that user 's bills to total the amount of the
Authorized Annual Billing. Since the Tariff Structure will include a term representing
each user 's consumption, the Real Annual Billing will not coincide exactly with the
Authorized Annual Billing, and the difference upward or downward will be corrected by
deducti71g that difference from, or adding it to, the Authorized Annual Billing for the
followv ing year.
The financial commitment between the Contracting Authority and the Operator thus consists of
operation of the systems at an annual fixed price (revised by a price index and as a function of
growth in user numbers).24 This arrangement is the best one from the point of view of urban
planning (the planner knows how much this service is costing to all of society at any given
moment) and also obliges the Operator to seek the highest economic return by minimizing the
costs of the service, an approach that is also in the social interest. In other types of concessions,
the Operator makes a greater effort to obtain tariff increases than to reduce his own production
costs.
The initial Tariff Structure should appear in the MBC, but provision should also be made in the
MBC for the Tariff Structure to be amended by mutual agreement between the parties whenever
deemed appropriate. Since there is a limit on the Authorized Annual Billing amount regardless of
the Tariff Structure, any amendment ofthe Tariff Structure will not influence the Contract's
financial equilibrium. This represents an enormous advantage, since the Tariff Structure may be
adjusted as needed during the period of operation without any danger that such changes will
prove harmful to the entire user population. There is complete facility of supervision, and it is
necessary to ensure agreement between the parties simply to prevent an irrational Tariff Structure
from resulting in deterioration of the Operator's billing to collection ratio.25
The Average Annual Tariff and the Tariff Structure (the initial one, included in the MBC) are to
be put in place following a study of user capacity and willingness to pay. A low Average Anllual
Tariff will be easier to implement from the sociopolitical standpoint, but it will produce fewer
surpluses that can be used for investment, thereby holding up the improvement of a system in a
bad state of deterioration. Once again, the Consultant will need to give prudent counsel to the
public authorities on this aspect, and ensure that the Average Annual Tariff is the highest
compatible with the users' willingness to pay at the time the Contract is signed. However, as we
shall see below, the Model contains very flexible arrangements for increasing the annual burden
on the users. so that, if there is increased willingness to pay (usually the consequence of better
service), it will be possible to increase the annual user burden as needed and when new
23    Logically, there are three Authorized Annual Billings, for inhabitants served with water, sewerage services
and wastewater treatment, respectively. As an alternative, the Authorized Annual Billing for wastewater treatment
may be imposed on all users of sewerage services, even though not all wastewater is treated, since the disposal
service is of the same quality for all sewerage service users, regardless of the fact that certain wastewater is treated
while other wastewater is not.
24   It should be noted that this does not lead to water wastage, since each user pays according to his
consumption. It is the total of the bills that remains subject to a limit, but each user has an interest in reducing his
consumption to be charged as little as possible when that total is distributed.
25    For example, the Operator could oppose a Tariff Structure that exceeded the willingness to pay of any given
segment of the user population.



Page 137
investments are required. Consequently, the use of a relatively low Average Annual T'ariff allows
for a certain degree of correction in the future, for which reason it should never exceed the users'
willingness to pay when the bidding process is under way.
Since the Average Annual Tariff is fixed, the POI is generally the only proposal submitted by the
Operator. As noted above, the POI is the sequence of investments through which the Operator
undertakes to comply with the terms of the MBC. Nevertheless, the Model recognizes that, in
reality, it often happens that the conditions of the MBC cannot be met by the Operator
exclusively out of surpluses generated by the Average Annual Tariff it is authorized to charge.26
The Model therefore recognizes the possibility of: (1) adding in third-party investments (we shall
identify such sources in this way, since they may be from the central or municipal governments,
or, alternatively, fully or partially paid for by the users themselves "over and above" the Average
Annual Tariff) in order to fully comply with the MBC; or (2) accepting that for part of the
Contract period the system will need to operate under conditions resulting from incomplete
implementation of the Operator's proposed POI. The ability to make such adjustments without
altering the contractual equilibrium between Contracting Authority and Operator is the Model's
basic premise.
Consequently, the Operator will include in his bid the POI with which he undertakes to comply
with all the conditions of the MBC, but will identify those investments he is willing to make at
his own expense, using tariff surpluses. For operational reasons, the Operator's investments are
required to appear first, i.e. "on the left" of the PO1.27 The remaining investments, for which the
Operator does not intend to use surpluses from the Average Annual Tariff, will be shown "oin the
right" of the POI. The variable to be considered during bid evaluation is thus the third-party
investment requirement of each bidder, represented, in mathematical terms, by the current value
of investments shown "on the right" of the POI that the bidder acknowledges it cannot afford to
make. This is therefore a single monetary value, immediately comparable, and the winning
bidder will be the one for whom that value is the lowest.8 In the particular case of the bidder
being able to use operating surpluses to carry out all of its POI investments, he will be required to
also offer a reduction in the Average Annual Tariff established in the MBC, and the bidder
offering the largest reduction will naturally be the winner.29
The POI submitted by a bidder binds that bidder in terms both of execution of the investments
mentioned (which consequently will need to be very clearly described) and of their estimated
amounts. It is recommended that those amounts be in dollars and be considered firm, since this
will avoid the need for them to be revised at a later date. The Model acknowledges, and this is
fundamental to its application, that a long-term POI will definitely be subject to amendments.
Maintenance of the commitment in dollars, with the rules we set out below, will make it possible
to effect such amendments without affecting the Contract's financial equilibrium.
26    This would simply mean, and it is the case most commonly arising with degraded systems such as those that
we are accustomed to finding in Colombia. that user willingness to pay is insufficient to meet the investment needs
of the systems and that it is impossible to arrive at a perfect system during the lifetime of a Contract if exclusive
reliance is placed on user inputs.
27    This will oblige the Operator to undertake advance financing of his operations, which he will have to recover
as the operation progresses.
28    To understand the rationale of the contract award system, it is sufficient to realize that for a bidder to be able
to operate the system during the entire Contract period and in compliance with the conditions of the MBC he will
receive part of the funds directly from the users and solicit other funding "from third parties." Since the first part
(funding from users) is fixed for all bidders, the winner will be the bidder who asks for the lowest amount from third
parties.
29    The Consultants will need to ensure that this reduction has a sufficient number of figures behind the decimal
point to avoid any possibility of a tie occurring in practice. This is better than including tiresome clauses to cover
the event of a tie, which often prove rather absurd, since it is highly unlikely that a tie should occur.



Page 138
During the operation, the POI will be broken down each year into an Annual Works and
Investment Plan (PAOI) to be proposed by the Operator sufficiently in advance to enable it to be
studied, discussed if necessary, and approved by the Contracting Authority. The PAOIs will
apply both to the Operator-financing stage ("on the left of the POI") and to the third-party
financing stage ("on the right of the POI"). The basic rules for PAOIs are as follows:30
-      All PAOI works will be carried out by the Operator, both those financed by the Operator
and those financed by third parties, and will be posted to the accounts, in principle, at the
price established in the POI, regardless of their real cost at the time of their execution.
However, bidding for works budgeted above a given amount (to be established in the
Contract) will have to take place in the presence of the Contracting Authority, to ensure
transparency of the bidding process, and will be posted at their real cost or at the cost
estimated in the POI, whichever is lower. Possible surpluses will be applied to the
carrying out of new investnients. The operator may propose alternative PAOIs prior to
the period of implementation of the works. If the alternatives achieve the same result at a
lower cost, they may be approved by the contracting authority and the operator will
benefit from the savings. This will provide an incentive to the operator to propose
innovations.
-      The Operator may propose in a PAOI that works contained in the POI be brought forward
or delayed, and these will be transferred at their respective budgetary values. The
Operator must, however, respect its annual investment commitment.
*      The Contracting Authority may finance works of third parties using any of the following
procedures: (1) making available to the Operator the necessary funds or the proceeds of
loans signed by and repayable by the Contracting Authority; (2) subject to the Operator's
agreement,"1 charging the repayment installments to the users in such manner as the
PAOI shall determine (in such cases, the Operator will act simply as collection agent,
without additional remuneration), or with the Operator acting as financier of the works, in
which case the Operator will be remunerated as provided in the PAOI; and (3) a
combination of the foregoing methods. The Contracting Authority may, with the
Operator's agreement, order that certain levels of users be charged for the corresponding
repayment installments while other levels be subsidized.
-      The Contracting Authority may bring forward the execution of POI works to be financed
by third parties. The Operator will be obliged to carry out such works when the
Contracting Authority finances them and handles all amortization directly. However, if
the Contracting Authority orders that repayments be charged to the users and/or that the
Operator finance the works, the Operator's agreement will be required.
-      By way of exception, the Operator may propose the inclusion in a PAOI of new works
not contained in the initial POI, which will replace or displace other POI works.
Valuation of the new works will be carried out, when possible, by analogy with the POI
works, and, in any case, the values will require the Contracting Authority's approval.
30    The most basic and necessary rules will be included, but the Consultant must propose a logical set of rules
that is as complete as possible.
31    Whether third-party works are brought forward or carried out on schedule, any financial operation that
increases the monetary burden upon the users shall first be approved by the Operator, since it could unfavorably
impact its collection ratio.



Page 139
*      As may be seen from the foregoing, any decision of a financial nature32 required by the Contract
during operation of the systems has to be approved by the Contracting Authority as and when
such decision is required. This means that the decision is taken by the political authority in office
at the time. It also implies that the political authority originally signing the Contract may not take
decisions of a financial nature relating to actions to be taken at a later date.33 This is undoubtedly
the greatest advantage, and also the most important requirement, of the Model. The reason why
certain PSP arrangements have foundered has generally been that conventional models tend to tie
up the future to conform to the will of the political authority that signed the Contract, whose
decisions are often completely unacceptable to those individuals who assume that particular
office later on.
Three types of selection criteria for a private operator in the water sector have been used in PSP processes
in Latin America:
Type I (Buenos Aires, Tucuman, Monteria)
*  Pre-established performance targets
*  Selection Criterion: lowest proposed tariff
Type 2 (La Paz)
*  Pre-established tariff
*  Selection Criterion: highest proposed performance target
Type 3 (the proposed model for this project)
*  Pre-established tariff
*  Pre-established performance targets
*  Selection Criterion: minimum capital investment subsidy (no operating subsidies) requested from
a third party to comply with the performance targets during the entire contract period (which is
equivalent to a maximum investment commitment)
*  The operator's proposal includes a technical proposal in the form of a detailed overall and annual
investment program for the contract period. He defines in his proposal the portion of the
investment out of the total which he commits to invest on the basis of the income from future
tariffs, and the year until which he provides the investments. He also commits to achieve the
performance targets up until this year.
Models type 1 and type 2 do not require a technical proposal and some experts consider that a technical
proposal should not be requested since the operator is only requested to provide performance and it is
irrelevant how he achieves it, as long as he delivers. This approach might be reasonable for the cases in
which no capital investment subsidy is requested from a third party, usually the Government, i.e., when
the operator is required and agrees to provide all the investments during the contract period (this is
32    Such decisions are those that refer to any amendments to the Tariff Structure, and, in particular, those that
refer to approval of the PAOI, which is the act by which the Authority directs and approves the operation's
development, and, more particularly, any increase in or maintenance of the monetary burdens upon the users.
33    For example, and most importantly, a mayor signing the Contract may not prescribe subsequent increases in
the Average Annual Tariff that would come about when he is no longer mayor. It is a common practice for mayors
who do no not want to deal with a tariff increase at the time when they sign the Contract to be very generous with
subsequent increases that will become effective when they are no longer mayor. This is basically contrary to the
spirit of the Model, which requires that all financial decisions be taken by the political authority in office at the time,
who will determine the right moment for such a decision and defend it before the public through an appropriate
information campaign.



Page 140
defined as a full concession). However, when a third party is providing partial financing (especially when
this financing is provided in the form of a subsidy), it is reasonable to expect that that this party will
receive all the technical and financial information regarding the program it is going to finance and have a
say on the works it is financing, especially when the third party is the Government, which has social
objectives. Submission of the technical proposal does not deprive the private operator from the ability to
be innovative. First of all, it is the operator that prepares the technical proposal and he can incorporate in
it the innovations he finds fit. In addition the operator does not lose the option to include innovations in
the future, since he may propose alternative PAOIs, in the future, prior to the period of implementation of
the works. If the alternatives achieve the same result at a lower cost, they may be approved by the
contracting authority and the operator will benefit from the savings. This will provide an incentive to the
operator to propose innovations.
Usually the tendency in PSP in the water sector is to reach an agreement on a full concession. However,
under the conditions in medium size cities in Colombia, it would be difficult to reach full concession
agreements. Most of these cities suffer from infrastructure backlogs, need high investments, and the
current tariffs which the service users in these cities pay are quite low. The first step is to reach an
agreement with the municipal authorities of cities which choose to participate in the program in regard to
the maximum acceptable tariffs. The assumption is that, in most cities, even with tariffs increased to the
maximum acceptable level, it would not be possible to finance all the works required in the next 20-30
years (the contract period) just from tariffs. The winning private operator in a certain city will commit to
invest the portion of the investments which can be financed by the agreed tariff, and to achieve the
performance targets compatible with his investments. The Government will finance from the loan
proceeds part of the rest of the investments, as a subsidy targeted to support the poor. The works financed
by the Government in each city will be implemented by the private operator, who will then commit to
achieve the performance targets compatible with the additional works. The remaining non-financed
works, which will usually be required in the late years of the contract periods, will be financed by one of
following sources (i) contribution of users in the future; (ii) additional public sector subsidies in the future
(from municipal or government sources); or (iii) a combination of the previous two sources.
Since, under the proposed project the Government is providing an investment subsidy to each
participating city, type 3 model was found reasonable to be used, since it allows the Government to know
exactly how the city's utility will be transformed, to decide what will be financed with the subsidy it
provides and to target it as it wishes, as well as have control and ensure that the funds are used according
what has been authorized.
The basic concepts of the model are the following:
defining
FAA as Annual Authorized Billing (Factuaracion Annual Autorizada)
COA as Annual Operation and Administration Cost of the System (Costo de Operacion y
Administracion)
If FAA-COA< 0, PSP is not financially viable, the utility should remain public and management should
be improved.
If FA-COA>0, PSP is financially viable.
After the private operator takes over, he will improve efficiency by decreasing operational costs and
increasing billing and collection. The following will be maintained:
INV=FAA-COA-RAP>0



Page 141
where
RAP = Reasonable Annual Profit
INV = Annual Surplus for Investment
The capacity of the operator to contribute to investments is the present value of the annual series of INV
during the operation contract period and is defined as PV(INV).
This capacity might not be sufficient to finance all the required investments and in medium size cities in
Colombia, will most probably not be sufficient.
The Bidding Process
The bidding documents stipulate the fixed authorized annual average tariff and the tariff structure (which
might be changed later). They also stipulate the transition period and pattern, if tariff increase is not
immediate and there is a transition period from the current to the authorized tariff.
The biding documents also include the required performance targets in terms of coverage (water,
sewerage, in the entire city and in poor neighborhoods) and quality during each year of the contract
period. The targets vary along time.
Each proponent is required to submit his overall Works and Investments Program (POI) broken down to
detailed Annual Works and Investment Programs (PA0Is) during each year of the contract period.
The requirement that each proponent submit his own POI promotes private sector innovations and
transfers technical and financial responsibility as well as risks to the proponents.
Each proponents submits two envelopes: one with the technical proposal and the other with the financial
proposal:
*  Ebvelope I contains the detailed proposed POI during the contract period, detailing annual works
and investments (description of each work and cost estimate of each one).
e  Envelope 2 contains the present value of the resources requested by the operator as a subsidy
from a third party which would allow the operator to complete the entire investment program.
This also indicates, inter alia, the present value of the investments he commits to undertake and
the year until which his investment commitment will cover the requirements.
The Selection Criterion
The winning bidder is the one which requests the minimum present value of the resources (minimum
investment subsidy) from a third party.
If a bidder does not request any support from a third party, then he should indicate what is the percentage
of reduction in average tariff that would be acceptable to him. The bidder that proposes the highest tariff
reduction is the winning bidder.
The following figure provides an illustration of the selection criterion:



Page 142
PSP Process- Selection Criterion
Investment Plan                          Investments to
be Realized by
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Private Operator Selectioni C riterion
1. Minimum Net Present Value (12%) of the investment
flow to be realized by a third party
2. If No Investment of Third Party is Requested, then
Percentage of Reduction in average Tariff (Average
monthly bill for a consumption of 20 m3)
The Contract
Althouglh the selection criterion is based on investments which the operator cannot finanice from the tariff,
this criterion is theoretical in the sense that there is no commitment in the contract that the public sector
would finance the shortfall. The contract refers only to the amount that the operator commits to invest
and the corresponding performance targets.
The operator will provide the financing up until the year he committed to and will achieve the
performance targets of this year. After that he will not be obliged to invest and will have to maintain the
targets at a level of the year at which he completed his investments obligations.
The POI submitted by the winning bidder will form part of the contract. The Mayor will have a right to
review the annual investment program and request modifications, on condition that those do not increase
the investment commintmnents of the operator.
If the public sector will choose to provide additional investments to cover part or all the investment
shortfall, these will be invested according to the POI and after completing the additional works, the
operator will have to achieve the corresponding performance targets.
If the public sector's investments are provided before the operator completed his investments obligations,
works can be switched.



Page 143
Model Benefits
*  Establishes contractual performance targets of the operator coupled with financial resources based on
an achievable cash flow.
*  Is adjusted to the fiscal restrictions of the Government and the public sector.
*  Offers contractual stability and flexibility for adaptation to the conditions and priorities of each
municipality.
*  Ensures consumers tariff efforts without exceeding capacity and willingness to pay.
*  Promotes local financial efforts without committing uncertain resources.
*  Ensures a simple, objective and transparent process of selecting a private operator, based on one easy-
to-measure criterion.
*  Allows the municipal authorities to be involved in decision making as and when such decisions are
required.
Maicao managed to contract a private operator
During project preparation, PSP processes based on the described model were prepared for several cities
and bidding process were initiated. Unfortunately, because of budget related issues, the bidding processes
coincided with the end of the term of mayors in Colombia, which hindered most of the processes.
However, one process, in the city of Maicao, a city with a population of about 130,0000 inhabitants in the
Department of La Guajira, was completed successfully, an operation contract was awarded to the private
sector ( a consortium of Colombian operators and a foreign investor) which took over the responsibility
for the provision of the water and sewerage services in the city as of March 15, 2001.
Alternative models
Although the described model is considered to be the most appropriate for medium size cities in
Colombia, the use of other models would also be permitted, in accordance with the specific conditions of
each city.
For an alternative PSP contracts to be supported by the Project, the lessons learned from the past PSP
experiences in the water and sanitation sector in Latin America should be fully taken into account. The
main problems can be grouped into several issues:
(i)    lack of transparency in PSP/competition process;
(ii)   lack of clarity in regulatory framework and PSP contracts;
(iii)   weak and expensive regulatory institutions;
(iv)   inefficient tariff regime;
(v)    lack of clear strategy and feasible models to expand services to urban poor within the
context of PSP; and
(vi)   unclear environmental responsibilities.



Page 144
Annex 16: The Constructor-Operator Model for Private Sector Participation in the
Operation of Water Supply and Sanitation Systems in Small Municipalities
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. The Need for Private Sector Participation in the Water Sector in Small and Medium-Size
Municipalities
Experience has shown that in Latin America the private sector tends to get involved in the management of
the water services in large cities rather than in small municipalities or rural areas. Privatization occurs
more often in large cities as a result of the lobbying efforts of the large private operators.
However, analysis of the sector's dynamics indicates that large cities and their large water companies are
least in need of private sector participation. The water company of Bogota can serve as an illustrative
case. Because of low efficiency, this company has accumulates a deficit on several occasions. The
reason for its inefficiency is essentially the instability in its policies which results from frequent turnover
of management. Measures that were positive initially are usually interrupted after two or three years and
replaced by inferior measures or programs. The company then loses the benefits financial surplus it had
gained. When the financial situation deteriorates, the politicians enact a law which in one form or another
covers the deficit, because they cannot permit that the national capital will be left without a water service.
Large cities and their large water companies can continue to function as public utilities because when they
run into financial problems, the Government will, sooner or later, bale them out and cover their deficit by
providing them with funds from the national budget. On the other hand, small municipalities continue to
pose a real concern in terms of the water service provided to their population. Multilateral Development
Banks need to pay more attention and provide more help to small municipalities than to large cities, since
the latter have easier access to government support, while small municipalities, mostly inhabited by
population of low income, have limited access to the financial and technical support needed to improve
their water and sanitation services.
In Colombia, most of the past Bank support to the water sector was directed to large cities. The approach
of the proposed project constitutes a shift in policy by setting out a new approach aimed at strengthening
and supporting the water sector in small and medium size municipalities. The underlying assumption of
this policy is that the water utilities in large cities can develop and grow on their own, although they, too,
experience crises at times, as is currently happening in Cali.
B. Big Versus Small Operators
A number of misconceptions regarding big versus small and medium-size private operatoys, generally
accepted as representing the truth need to be corrected.
The first of these -the so-called "economy of scale effect" - maintains that it is more difficult and
expensive to supply water to small municipalities than to large cities. This is completely false. Although
circumstances do of course vary from one municipality to another, analysis of the most common water
supply systems shows that it is cheaper to provide water service to small and medium-size towns than to
large cities. The opposite is assumed to be the case because large regional water companies benefit from
pointing out that their inefficiencies may be blamed on the fact that they need to provide unprofitable
service to small municipalities, whereas in reality, a different quality of service is acceptable in small
towns since the systems required do not have to be highly sophisticated. In small municipalities it is
possible to use the services of operators who are familiar only with the basic operational tasks typically



Page 145
needed for small systems, such as replacing a pipe -jobs which in the end are always performed by small
contractors even when large water companies are also present.
However, large firms do not wish to leave the task of serving small municipalities to small operators
because they try to hide their own inefficiency. To cite a distant example (not related to Colombia), the
city of Campo Grande, the capital of Mato Grosso do Sul in Brazil was faced with a water shortage
which, as one would expect, affected mainly the outlying districts of the city. A local entrepreneur
appeared on the scene and began drilling small wells in these districts, supplying water to an area which
has never had a regular water service. The state-owned water company bought the entrepreneur out,
realizing that someone was making very small investments to serve a market it had never tapped before,
and for which it proposed constructing works valued at US$100 million in order to provide the water
service.
Large companies like to take over small operations for political gain, not just in large cities, but in small
municipalities as well. The political returns which a large company stands to reap in a small municipality
are much greater than in a large city. In large cities, substantial works must be built in order to generate
political gains, whereas in a small municipality, building a small system captures the interest of the entire
population: the press, TV, the mayor, everyone finds out about it. The large company thus becomes a
political instrument, and that explains why politicians have no desire to give up managing public
companies. This is the reality.
Politicians are therefore not pleased to learn that it is more effective and profitable to leave operations in
small municipalities to small operators. And these operators, moreover, are not going to be from Europe,
Asia, or Australia; they are from the country itself. They are small entrepreneurs, which contribute far
more wealth to the country than the huge multinationals, which prefer to operate only large water systems
and, of course, to repatriate a share of their income.
The establishment of small and medium-size operators makes so much sense that such programs have
arisen spontaneously in a number of countries in Latin America. Returning to the example of Brazil, in
spite of ten years of efforts by the govemment and the multilateral agencies, the success in privatizing
state-owned and large municipal water utility has been modest. On the other hand, some thirty small
municipalities now have small private operators, all the product of local initiatives, with no intervention
or support of the state.
The example of Paraguay's aguateros, or independent small water suppliers, is relevant in this regard.
When we discovered them and analyzed the results of their efforts and activities we were very surprised
to note that their situation refuted the so-called "economy of scale effect" mentioned earlier. On the
outskirts of Asuncion, which attract emigrants from rural areas (the city's poorest inhabitants), a number
of small operators (aguateros) provide water service to these residents, passing on to them all investment
and operating costs as well as the cost of the aguateros' profits - and all this at tariffs which even the
poorest users can afford. And they accomplish this without the investments or operating subsidies
granted to the state-owned public utility which supplies water to the center of the capital.
In Ciudad del Este, Paraguay's second largest city, aguateros once served the entire city, except for a
small central sector supplied by the State-owned company. This company submitted to the government a
water supply scheme for the entire city requiring an investment of US$200 million. The investment
would have been used to provide water to areas which already had water service thanks to the aguateros.
Moreover, besides wasting US$ 200 million, by ignoring the existence of the aguateros, the scheme
would have ruined a host of small enterprises capable of serving small and medium-size towns without
the Government's help.



Page 146
In Campo Grande, as already observed, the large public utility chose to buy out the small private
entrepreneur rather than compete with him. Even more drastic, in Ciudad del Este the large public utility
sought to destroy the small private companies by simply ignoring their existence.
The first lesson to be learned is that large cities need large operators while small municipalities need
small local operators. The second lesson is that existing small operators should be respected. It is also
recommended to promote and encourage the establishment of small private operators in places where
legislation or custom have posed obstacles to their establishment. In all the cases of exiting small
operators in Latin America, they are either ignored or opposed by the authorities. The proposed project is
the first one under which the activity of small private operators will be supported and promoted by a
Government, and the Government of Colombia is the first one which has incorporated in its policy the use
of small private operators as an instrument for improving the water service in small municipalities.
C. The Principles of the Constructor-Operator Model
Let us now examine the principles of the Constructor-Operator model, which will be applied in Colombia
as a measure aimed at providing a response to the need for small operators. The proposed arrangement is
applicable to very small localities, i.e., municipalities with populations in the range of 2,000 to 12,000
inhabitants. It is based on a government program to invest in the rehabilitation and expansion of water
and sanitation systems in the participating small municipalities, coupled with the institutional concept that
the systems must be managed by small private entrepreneurs.
How can a market of small operators be created where none exist? we suggest turning small constructors,
a market of which does exist anywhere, into operators by including provisions in their construction
contracts requiring them to operate the systems they construct for a certain period of time, for example,
ten years. The Constructor-Operator must first calculate the construction cost of the works he is required
to construct, and then the ten-years operating cost, bearing in mind the income to be generated by user
tariffs and the portion of that income which he can contribute to construction, while still maintaining
reasonable profits during the operation period. The residual construction cost, i.e., the difference between
the value of the works and the contribution to construction cost from future income, will be contributed
by the Government as a "construction cost contribution" in a form of a n investment subsidy to the
population of the small municipality. Although initially constructors may not find such an operation
attractive, they might agree to be responsible for system operation because of their interest in the
construction portion of the contract. Then, with time they might grow to get fond of the operation
activity, after learning about its benefits and getting used to them.
The project begins with a study which defines how much can the population pay for the water and
sanitation services. The capacity to pay must be taken into account, because if operating costs exceed
what users can afford, the project will not be viable (this should never be the case; users should always be
capable of paying at least the operating costs). If the capacity to pay exceeds the operating costs, leaving
a suitable profit for the operator, the project can be considered feasible.
The average tariff users will pay will be constant during the operations phase and must be agreed upon
with the municipal authorities and approved by them (a fixed formula for revising the tariff, to be applied
automatically for inflation adjustment, may be established as well).
After reaching an agreement on tariffs with the municipal authorities, the detailed design of the required
works will be prepared, including specifications.
The bidding process for selecting the operator will begin at this point. Bidders will calculate operating
surpluses in terms of present value and determine how much can they contribute from the future income
to finance the works, and how much they request as Government contribution. Bidders may also provide



Page 147
alternative designs which might reduce costs. Standard bidding procedures will be used and the contract
will be awarded to the bidder that submitted the lowest responsive bid for construction.
After operating for ten years the system he himself constructed, the Constructor-Operator will most
probably recognize the benefits of performing as a system operator, i.e., benefiting from a stable, reliable
and continuos source of income, while performing a relatively simple task. It is expected that this will
convince the entrepreneur to remain an operator on a permanent basis.
D. Details of the Constructor-Operator Model for Small Municipalities and Procedures for its
Implementation
Private operators in small localities should be encouraged to participate in the operation of water supply
and sanitation systems in accordance with procedures reflecting the specific circumstances dictated by the
size of the municipality. The procedures followed traditionally for incorporating the private sector in the
management of the services, in addition to being lengthy and cumbersome, are inappropriate for small
operators with limited resources and no source of financing.
Unless appropriate procedures are implemented for incorporating the private sector in management and
operation of water systems in small municipalities, there is a risk that no operators will be found to serve
such municipalities - not because such operations are unprofitable, but rather, because the procedural
obstacles and financial requirements discourage small and medium-size entrepreneurs (SMEs) from
getting involved. However, it is even more important to encourage SMEs to specialize in such operations
in small municipalities than in larger cities because the difficulties of the public authorities in
organization and proper operation of water and sanitation systems in small municipalities are much
greater than the difficulties in greater municipalities, whereas SMEs have all the required management
capacity to operate such small systems.
The first thing to bear in mind when preparing a private sector participation (PSP) operation in small
municipalities is that the operator does not need to be experienced in the particular field or have the
financial capacity to make investments. Rather, the operator should be able to take the place of a public
utility (which is subject to political intervention and is always short of funds) by assuming contractual
obligations under which the operator acquires responsibilities which he has to comply with and which can
be-properly controlled and monitored. However, a small operator cannot accept substantial economic
risks in such transactions. Accordingly, the initial conclusion to be drawn is that whereas in large
population centers it is possible to require that operators provide significant investments at the beginning
of the contract period (since their investments will be recovered during the operation period), such a
requirement cannot be imposed in small municipalities.
Even if investments are not required, the operation of water systems in small municipalities might seem
unattractive, particularly in regions were there is no tradition of this type of operations. Nevertheless,
experience in a number of countries has shown that such an assumption is incorrect and that with proper
organization and specialization SMEs can obtain meaningful profits from operating water and sanitation
systems in small municipalities. However, it is not easy to transfer this experience from one country to
another. Where there is no established history of SME involvement in small municipalities, it is
necessary to start by promoting their involvement in the water sector and by helping to establish the small
and medium-size entrepreneurs in the water sector. Later, once successful operations have been
established, SMEs will continue operating in the sector without additional encouragement and will even
consider taking on some risk by investing their own resources.
SME participation in the water sector can be promoted through groups of small construction firms. Such
firms by definition possess the required technical skills to operate water and sanitation systems and the
functional capacity to mange commercial enterprises. It should not be forgotten that these firms are
generally the ones called upon most often to repair and construct water and sanitation systems, often



Page 148
working together with larger construction companies which retain most of the profits from large contracts
to which they have access. But the fact remains that the operators who work on such projects are often
smaller companies. Furthermore, all small construction firms are familiar with administrative and
accounting procedures, which differ little from those needed by SMEs in the water sector. It is therefore
sufficient to attract small construction companies to the water sector in small municipalities by offering
them the business in a form which will result attractive to them.
Such firms are most likely to be attracted by a construction contract suited to their means and conditions.
Because most small municipalities suffer from infrastructure investment deficit in their water supply and
sanitation systems, programs to improve the water and sanitation services must begin with system
rehabilitation and consolidation works. According to the principle of the Constructor-Operator model, the
central and/or local Government (municipality), in coordination and with the assistance of the Project
Implementation Unit, would start off by inviting bids for the works, including in the bidding documents
the requirement that the successful bidder must operate the system from the time construction begins and
for several years after it has been completed (an operation period of 10 to 15 years seems reasonable).
Small construction firms, initially attracted by the construction component of the contract, will then
evolve into private small water system operators. It is very likely that once the agreed operating period
has ended, the small construction companies will be interested in continuing such operations in the
municipalities they were already involved in and/or in others of a size matching their capabilities.
Preparations for a program based on the principles outlined above should begin with a study of the small
municipalities that is sufficiently targeted and simple to ensure that the desired small operators will be
found. The consulting firm conducting the study should comply with terms of reference (TOR) which
encourage simplification and specificity, avoiding the complexities that generally accompany the typical
PSP process. Specifically, the TOR should require that the study cover the following items:
*  Firstly, the capacity and willingness of users to pay should be considered in order to determine
the maximum possible tariff they can afford. A tariff structure for the municipality in question
should then be established.
*    Next, the consulting firm should discuss the defined tariff structure with the local authorities
and reach a respective agreement after the latter have introduced any changes deems necessary.
The approved tariff structure should then be reflected in formal commitment (such as municipal
council resolution, or whatever is required by law).
*    The consulting firm, with the assistance of the local authorities, should conduct a public
campaign to convince users and their immediate representatives (existing social organizations)
about the need for paying adequate tariffs if they are to benefit from the improvements bein
provided with government assistance. Wherever possible, the agreement by users'
representatives should be set out in writing, in meeting records or similar documents. The
consulting firm should emphasize in particular that in order to be included in the assistance
program managed by the proiect, users must make a formal commitment and pay water tariffs in
a timely manner.
*    The consulting firm will calculate the expected income on the basis of the agreed tariff
structure, utilizing the collection rate deemed adequate on the basis of its experience with the
authorities and users. In parallel, the consulting firm will establish the system operating costs,
and will prove that an operating surplus does exists, since otherwise the business will not be
profitable and the private sector participation will materialize. In particular, if municipal
employees are working on the system before the takeover by the private operator, they must
continue to do so even once the private operator got involved, and the consulting firm will
include the real costs related to these workers in its calculations. This is imperative in order not
to cause any disruptive changes for existing personnel during the transformation of management.



Page 149
*   If no operating surplus is expected, the consulting firm will conclude its work with a report
detailing a description of its activity and its recommendations to the municipality for improving
the system under public sector management. No PSP operation could be considered viable
without an operating surplus.
*    If an operating surplus is expected and can be maintained, the consulting firm will request the
local authorities to formally authorize the project implementation unit to invite bids on behalf of
the municipality for construction and operation of the water and sanitation system. The project
implementation unit will keep the municipality informed on the status of the process of
incorporation of a private operator.
*    Once the authorization referred to in the preceding paragraph has been received, the consulting
firm will prepare a study defining the Works and Investment Plan (Plan de Obras e Inversiones,
POI) which the municipality needs in order to bring its system up to adequate state, within service
quality levels compatible with conditions in the municipality. In addition to the POI, the
consulting firm will prepare a report for the project implementation unit indicating all measures
taken, documents from the authorities and users proving adherence to the program, the
willingness of users to pay in accordance with the tariff structure, and the authorization to the
project implementation unit to proceed with the bidding process for selecting the constructor-
operator.
*    On the basis of this information the project implementation unit team will establish the amount
of financial support which the municipality would receive. Once this figure is known, the
consulting firm will determine which works a priority for municipality and can be accommodated
within the available budget, after which the firm will prepare the final design and specifications
for the works which would be constructed. The project implementation unit, with assistance of
the consulting firm will also re-evaluate and prove that, after the proposed works have been put
into service, the system can continue to operate with the operating surplus.
*    Finally, the consulting firm will prepare the following documents: (1) the Bidding documents;
and (2) a construction and Operating contract which, together with the final design and
specifications, will form the basis for the agreement for construction and operation between the
municipality and the successful bidder. As is typical with bidding for works, the selection
criterion will be the lowest responsive bid, i.e., the winning bidder will be the one which proposes
to construct the required works for the lowest cost. During the operation period, all operating
conditions will be fixed and will not change with time. However, the tariff structure will be
subject to adjustment in the light of consumer price increases, as stipulated in the contract.
*    The documents referred to in the preceding paragraph should be drafted as model documents
applicable to all municipalities. To each model document, the information specific to each
municipality will be incorporated, namely (1) the tariff structure and (2) the final design and
specifications.
When the consulting firm has completed its work the project implementation unit, with input from the
municipality, will initiate the bidding process, endeavoring to ensure the broadest possible competition
among local and nonlocal participants, under the following conditions:
* The bidding processes for various municipalities will proceed simultaneously if there are not too
many participating municipalities. Otherwise, several municipalities will be joint appropriately into a
single biding process and so several bidding processes will take place, each including a group of
municipalities. The Bidding documents will stipulate if bidders must bid on the entire group, or on



Page 1 50
each municipality in the group separately, or only separately in respect of specific municipalities in
the group. The project implementation unit, will decide whether all the municipalities in a group
should be the responsibility of a single operator or whether each municipality should be covered by a
different operator. In the latter case, it is required that several offers are received for each
municipality.
*  No matter which award procedure is followed pursuant to the preceding paragraph, a contract must be
signed for each municipality, even if several or all of them will be the responsibility of the same
operator. It is important to keep in mind that once the project implementation unit's work is over,
each municipality will control its operator in accordance with its own contract. It is not
recommended that several municipalities join together to sign the same contract.
*  The successful bidder must begin construction and operations on the same date (the contract start
date). Users will begin to pay from that same date in accordance with the agreed tariff structure.
* Pursuant to the contract terms, the operator will have the right to discontinue water service to users
who fail to pay. If, during the first six months of operation, or halfway through the construction
phase of the works covered by the final design specifications, whichever period is shorter,
payment arrears are above a certain percentage (established in the contract), the operator will
have the right to halt construction and turn the operation over to the municipality, and the
operator will be paid for the portion of the works completed at that date. The project
implementation unit will make the payment and will cancel the remaining works.
*  The project implementation unit will pay for the works according to progress, keeping with the usual
practice for construction contracts. The work of the project implementation unit will end once the
works have been completed in accordance with the final design specifications. The operator will
continue operating the system under the control of the municipality, in compliance with the contract
terms.
The ideas regarding the constructor-operator presented above obviously need to be refined and expanded
before action are taken under the proposed project. During project preparation, a pilot program to
incorporate SMEs in 8 small municipalities utilizing the described constructor-operator principles has
been prepared under Loan No. 3336-CO. However, this TA loan could not finance works. Because of
the economic crisis in Colombia, the government did not have sufficient available funds to finance the
required works in all the 8 small municipalities, however, two biding processes have been carried out, in
Nataga and Cumaral, and have terminated successfully with award of operation contracts to two
operators. Experience gained in the pilot program will be used to design and implement the SME
component of the proposed project. However, the successful pilot experience demonstrates that the
Constructor-Operator is a viable concept. The main conclusion from the pilot operation is that the most
important actor is the project implementation unit team, which plays the main role in: (i) convincing
Mayors and municipal councils to undertake the PSP reform; (ii) negotiating the tariffs with the local
authorities; (iii) carrying out the campaign to convince the community to accept the reform; (iv) prepare
the biding documents, ensure their integrity and carry out the bidding process, providing guidance up to
the point of signing the contract. The performance of the consulting firms was somewhat disappointing.
They did not take the lead in activities they were expected two and concentrated on preparing the
technical aspects, such as the detailed design and specifications, so the project implementation unit had to
step in and take care of all the rest.
The PSP process in the Municipality of Cumaral: The municipality of Cumaral in the Department of
Meta, with a population of 12,000 inhabitants, decided to participat in the pilot project of PSP through the
constructor-operator concept. The nominal coverage of services prior to PSP was high (90% for water
and 85% for sewerage), however the real coverage of water is much lower and the main problem is
continuity of service, which is only available between 4 to 8 hours per day. In addition, the municipal



Page 151
authorities had no way to improve the service, other than to join the project. The contract includes the
operation of both the water and sewerage services, although investments are required only for water
because the municipality has recently invested in optimizing the sewerage system. GTZ helped the PIU
in the socialization process which initiated in October 1999. The process consisted of meetings with the
mayor, the municipal council, community leaders and the community as a whole. The Department of
Meta participated and there was methodology transfer to it, in order to develop a capacity to replicate the
process in other municipalities. The consulting firm Hidrotec was hired to prepare the PSP process. It
prepared the POI which was presented to the municipal council, but neither the mayor nor the council
took a decisive positive position regarding the process, because of the approaching elections. The PSP
process continued in spite of the hesitation of the authorities and the mounting objection from various
actors (such as the municipal controller and the municipal legal adviser). The bidding documents were
based on the constructor-operator model, which was adjusted to Law 80 (the Colombian procurement
law) and not to the Bank guidelines, because the government is financing the investment. The bidding
process finally started on November 30, 2000, and a period of only 21 days was given for submission of
proposals, since the term of the mayor expired on December 30, and it was necessary that he sign the
contract before leaving office. This objective was achieved.
The water and sewerage tariffs for a consumption of up to 20 m3/month prior to PSP and the agreed
tariffs to be effective during PSP are presented in the following table.
Stratum        Average Monthly bill Before PSP    Average Monthly bill During PSP
(US$)                              (US$)
1                      2.6                                5.5
2                      3.1                                6.1
3                      4.5                                6.8
4                      4.5                                8.2
Commercial                  6.9                                9.1
The public audience for presentation of information, which was carried out prior to the initiation of the
bidding process, attracted 8 interested bidders which included several constructors from the Meta region
and from Bogota. The process was announce in all the important newspapers in the country, in the web
page of the Ministry of Economic Development and in professional chat rooms (sias-foro).
Three proposals were submitted, all of them by groups with experience of construction of water
installations. The winning bidder was Aguas del Llano, a local constructor with experience in the type of
works required. The financial structure of the transaction is the following:
Contributor                              Amount (US$)
Municipality of Cumaral (Law 60)                          363,640
Department of Meta                                        181,820
Government                                                636,630
Operator                                                  268,180
Total Project Cost                                        1,450,270
The PSP process in the Municipality of Nitaga: The municipality of Nataga in the Department of
Huila, with a population of 2,000 inhabitants, also participated in the pilot project of PSP through the
constructor-operator concept. The nominal coverage of services prior to PSP was 70% for water and 70%
for sewerage, however, the main problem is continuity of service, which is only available between 10 to
12 hours per day. The municipal authorities had no way to improve the service, other than to join the
project. The contract includes investments in a water intake, water treatment, extension of water
distribution networks and extension of sewerage networks, as well as the operation of both the water and
sewerage services, however, it does not include investments in sewage treatment. The socialization



Page 152
process consisted of three stages: (i) presentation to the mayor and to the municipal council of the
principles of PSP under the constructor-operator concept, to establish the political willingness to
participate; (ii) presentation of the POI and the proposed tariffs to the municipal authorities and to
community leaders; and (iii) presentation of the final design and a draft contract to the municipal
authorities and to community leaders. The consulting firm Hidrotec was hired to prepare the PSP process.
During the third stage, on the basis of the estimated project cost, the council authorization was granted to
initiate the bidding process and provide Law 60 funds to finance part of the works. The request for
council authorization coincided with the election period and one of the candidates for mayor used the
objection to the project as his election campaign main issue. The mayor reacted by calling a town hall
meeting, in which he presented the project to the community and obtained its support. After the election,
the mayor elect expressed support to the project and continues to support it. The bidding documents were
based on the constructor-operator model, which was adjusted to Law 80. The bidding process started on
November 24, 2000, and a period of only 24 days was given for submission of proposals, since the term
of the mayor expired on December 31, and it was necessary that he sign the contract before leaving office.
This objective was achieved.
Before PSP the water bill was based on the number of water taps in each house. The payment for the first
tap was US$ 0.71 per month and for any additional tap, an additional US$ 0.21 per month.
The average monthly water and sewerage tariffs prior to PSP and the and the agreed tariffs for a
consumption of up to 20 m3/month to be effective during PSP are presented in the following table.
Stratum        Average Monthly bill Before PSP     Average Monthly bill During PSP
(US$)                               (US$)
1                      2.5                                 3.5
2                      3.0                                 4.1
3                      4.3                                  4.8
Commercial                   7.3                                 7.3
The public audience for presentation of information, which was carried out prior to the initiation of the
bidding process, attracted 6 interested bidders which included 5 constructors from the Huila region and
one from Bogota. The process was announce in all the important newspapers in the country, in the web
page of the Ministry of Economic Development and in professional chat rooms (sias-foro).
Two proposals were submitted, one of a consortium of three of the local interested constructor and the
other of another interested local constructor. Both proponents have experience of construction of water
installations. The winning bidder was the local constructor Almafama, with experience in the type of
works required. The financial structure of the transaction is the following:
Contributor                               Amount (US$)
Municipality of Nataga (Law 60)                             54,550
Government                                                  200,300
Operator                                                       0
Total Project Cost                                          254,850
The award of these two contracts demonstrate the viability of the constructor-operator concept in
Colombia, for municipalities with populations ranging from 2,000 to 12,000.



Page 153
Annex 17: Private Sector Participation in the Water Sector in Colombia
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Introduction
The first case of private sector participation in a water company in Colombia is that of the city of
Cartagena, which was prepared with support of the World Bank and introduced in 1995 the PSP concept
into the country and paved the way to the following cases.
To date, about 50 water utilities in municipalities of various sizes in Colombia have already adopted the
PSP concept and are managed by private operators. About 14 of those are large and medium size utilities
and the rest are smaller municipalities with populations in the range of 10,000 to 30,0000 inhabitants.
Among the known large and medium size water companies managed by the private sector are those of
Cartagena, Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Tunja, Monteria, Palmira, Girardot and others. The experience with
the privatized utilities is encouraging. The performance of all of them has greatly improved after
transferring their management to the private sector, customer satisfaction is high and they provide good
examples to the way for resolving the water sector problems, so PSP is emerging as a methodology which
tends to be adopted by mayors who are interested in improving the performance water sector in their
nunicipalities.
In this Annex information is provided on the following topics related to PSP in the water sector in
Colombia: (i) performance of large and medium size privatized companies; (ii) performance of
ACUACAR, the Mixed-Capital water company of Cartagena, managed by the private sector; and (iii)
private sector participation in the provision of water services in small municipalities in Colombia. A
partial list of the utilities with PSP is provided in the Appendix to this Annex.
B. Performance of Large and Medium Size Privatized Utilities
Nominal coverage34 of water and sewerage services increased substantially in Colombia between the
years 1977 and 1997. In the poorest regions of the country35, on the Atlantic coast, water coverage rose
from 70 percent to 76 percent and sewerage from 39 percent to 48 percent, while on the Pacific coast6
piped water coverage was 54 percent in 1993 and 70 percent in 1997, with sewerage coverage increasing
from 32 percent to 44 percent.37
The strategy pursued by recent governments in the water and sanitation sector has focused on promoting
private sector participation as a way of helping to solve the problems of poor quality and low coverage of
these services and as a way to reduce the amount of fiscal transfers that the central government has
traditionally earmarked for the sector. The sector Modemization Program set up in the Water and
Sanitation Directorate of the Ministry for Economic Development was designed to support private sector
participation in water and sanitation utilities.
Colombia is currently one of the Latin American countries most actively engaged in processes associated
with private sector participation in the water sector. Colombia's first PSP process in the water and
sanitation sector in a large city began in Cartagena (with a population of about 800,000 inhabitants) in
34 Nominal coverage does not take into account the continuity of water service, i.e., the number of hours per day
during which water is available.
3 A study is currently being conducted of water and sewage services coverage by socioeconomic stratum and
income decile between 1993 and 1997 in order to determine how the poorest segments of the population have fared.
36 Excluding the department of Valle del Cauca.
37 According to estimates by Econometria S.A. based on DANE, DNP, and Household Surveys conducted in 1993
and 1997.



Page 154
1995. The following year, Barranquilla (with a population of about 2 million inhabitants) also decided to
incorporate the private sector in the provision of its water and sanitation services. Tunja, with a
population of about 300,000 soon followed and signed a concession contract with a private operator.
Today, private enterprises are providing piped water and sewerage services in 14 large and medium-sized
municipalities in Colombia, as well as in approximately 33 smaller ones. Under the proposed project,
approximately 35 additional municipalities are expected to incorporate the private sector over the next
five years.
Cartagena, Barranquilla and Tunja have already several tears of experience of operation under the
responsibility of the private sector. During a period of five years the performance indicators of the water
and sewerage services in these cities improved substantially, as demostrated in the following Table. The
information in the table shows that under private management of the services not only the genaral
population has benefitted from improved services but also the low income population: 98% of the service
connections in Cartagena were for strata I and 2, in Barranquilla 86%, in Tunja 79%, and in another
privately operated utility in Santa Marta over 50%.
Table 1: Performance Indicators in Some Large and Medium Size Utilities Opertaed by the Private
Sector
Cart gena       Barra quilla         Tunja
Indicators             Before    After   Before    After   Before    After   International
Indicators                 PSP      PSP      PSP      PSP      PSP      PSP       Standard
1994    2000     1995    2000      1995    2000
Number of employees        1,300    272      929      813      117       86
Number ofemployeesper       15       2.4     5.47     3.36     5.01     3.71         2
1000 connections                           I____                              I______
Water coverage             68%      86%      89%      94%      89%      98%        100%
Sewerage coverage          56%      70%      74%      78%      87%      92%        100%
% of domestic metering     30%     98.7%     25%      60%      90%      99%        100%
Number of connections     84,143   113,035  180,717  241,902   23,308   26,139
Unaccounted for water      60%      38%      46%      42%      53%      43%         25%
Production capacity (m3/sec)  1.6   3.1       7.5     8.2      0.3      0.3
Continuity of service (hr/day)  7    24       18       24       12       18          24
Response to complaints (days)  6     1.3      2        1.7     1.5       1.5        0.5
Connections in poor areas
(strata land 2) as percentage       82%               58%               79%
of new connections installed
in 1995-99
Source: Ministry of Economic Development
C. Performance of ACUACAR, the Mixed-Capital Water Company of Cartagena, Managed by the
Private Sector
Private Sector Participation in the Management of the Water and Sewerage Services in Cartagena
Since ACUACAR is the first privately operated utility in Colombia, and is already operating during a
period of 6 years, it was considered valuable to reviewe in further detail the performance of this company
and the strategy it had used to improve the level of the provision of the water and sewerage services in
Cartgana.
Usually, the main problem associated with financing water utility projects in developing countries is
ensuring sustainability in view of institutional weakness. In the case of the Cartagena water and sewerage
utility, institutional problems have been dealt with by incorporation of the private sector in the
management of the servicest. This was done in the framework of a previous Bank loan for the Water and
Sewerage Sector Project in Colombia (Loan 2961-CO). In October 1993, following many years of
chronic inefficiency, political interference and poor quality of service, the Mayor of Cartagena decided to
liquidate EPD, the public municipal water and sewerage utility of Cartagena, and at the advice of the



Page 155
Bank, involve the private sector in the management of the water and sewerage services in the city.
Activities to prepare the privatization process initiated in February 1994, with strong support, guidance
and technical assistance of the Bank, which were essential for the successful completion of the process in
the tight timeframe in which it was actually accomplished (which was restricted by the remaining term of
the Mayor in office, which expired on December 31, 1994). The PSP model selected was a mixed-capital
company model, under which the municipality associates with a qualified experienced water operator to
create a joint venture company in charge of the operation and maintenance of the water and sewerage
systems, while the assets remain under the ownership of the municipality, which is also in charge of all
new investments for expansion of the system. After a public bidding process, Aguas de Barcelona
(AGBAR, the privately owned water company of Barcelona), an experienced European private operator,
was selected as the partner of the municipality. In December 1994, as the first stage in the privatization
of the city's water and wastewater services, Aguas de Cartagena (ACUACAR), the new joint-stock
company, was legally established with an initial share capital of US$ 4 million. Following six months of
negotiations with the District of Cartagena, which were facilitated by the Bank, the responsibility for
providing the water and sewerage services was transferred to ACUACAR on June 25, 1995. The share
capital of ACUACAR is distributed as follows: 50% to the District of Cartagena, 46% to AGBAR and the
remaining 4% to local private shareholders. ACUACAR's Board of Directors is composed by five
members: two nominated by the District, two nominated by AGBAR and one nominated by the private
shareholders. Decisions in the Board have to be reached on the basis of a majority of 80%, i.e. by a
supporting vote of at least four members, which requires a common agreement between the District and
AGBAR. The General Manager of ACUACAR is nominated by AGBAR and needs to be approved by
the Board. ACUACAR has an operations and maintenance contract to provide water and wastewater
services to the District of Cartagena for a period of 26 years. Under the contract, the District is
responsible for future capital investments to expand the existing water and wastewater system; while
ACUACAR is responsible for capital expenditures to improve the existing system and has the right to use
existing and future assets at no cost during the contract life. The contract included various performance
targets which require the company to improve the quality of service and maintenance, reduce
unaccounted-for-water (UFW) and improve the collection rate. It stipulates that 50% of net income will
be declared as dividend to shareholders, which is the mechanism for income generation to the District of
Cartagena. AGBAR receives in addition to the dividend also a management fee, calculated as a
percentage of revenues, which is declining along the years.
The District has also some regulatory responsibility as a share holder in ACUACAR and as the supervisor
of compliance under the contract. In spite of the implicit conflict of interest (representing the public
interest and trying to maximize returns), an advantage and a potential weakness of this model is that it is
self regulating; both the District and AGBAR have effective veto power and must reach decisions by
consensus. The contract assigns some regulatory and policy functions to the District, including the
approval of the tariff level. However, final decisions and approval of tariff levels rest with the water
regulation committee (CRA).
There is external control and monitoring through financial auditors and a "Revisor Fiscal" appointed by
the Company. The former provides traditional company auditing and the latter a light touch regulatory
impact. There is provision for appointment of an "Interventor" by the District of Cartagena to provide a
degree of control over the operations and investments in the business. An appointment has not been made
however.
The tariff structure is controlled by the resolutions of the Water Regulation Committee (CRA). Tariff
effects are set out in three Corporate "Acuerdos" as are numerical values, projected to December 2001
and worked up in a study "Estudio de Costos y Tarifas de los Servicios de Acueducto y Alcantarillado"
prepared for ACUACAR in June 1996. The study was prepared in accordance with Law 142 of 1994
using the prescribed formulae. The structure provides for recovery of operational costs associated with
volumetric demand and facility costs related to existing and projected capital values. Allocations to six
different domestic economic groups and official, industrial, commercial, multi- and common users are



Page 156
built into charges formulae. The Acuerdos provide for convergence over time between existing (lower)
charges and approved (higher) charges.
ACUACAR's Performance and Achievements
The Cartagena mixed capital company is an interesting model that has survived its first five years of
operation in a market environment that few intemational sector utility operators would approach with
equanimity. Corporate operation has developed along ultra-modem partnering lines, defying contract
structure critics. The model brings together a private operator and a public authority in a service company
under transparent corporate governance rules, providing an opportunity for disciplined activity and
accountability before customers and shareholders.
During its first five years of operation, ACUACAR has achieved significant improvements in operational
performance. It is considered the most successful privatization case in Colombia and has served as a
catalyst for similar privatization processes in other Colombian cities. The privatization has already
resulted in improved management and higher efficiency within the system. These efficiency gains have
resulted in cash generation which the company has re-invested to further improve the system.
Achievements include putting the business on a sound commercial footing, increasing efficiency and staff
commitment, creating a credit-worthy public/private company, providing customer satisfaction and
dialogue, and increasingly auditable information. ACUACAR is unique as a South American water sector
utility in being the first one in the continent to achieve the ISO 9002 accreditation for its quality of
operations and laboratory. Management and staff that are well-qualified and trained and demonstrate a
high degree of competence, motivation and commitment.
Networks are efficiently managed under extremely difficult operating constraints which include the
legacy of a network in extremely poor condition that it inherited on takeover of operations and a very
significant number of unauthorized connections and tampering with customer meters
From field visit, scrutiny of reports, discussions with ACUACAR staff and ad hoc enquiry of third parties
it becomes clear that ACUACAR has, in the period since the take-over in 1995, significantly improved
the water supply and sanitation services to the District of Cartagena, in comparison to the situation which
prevailed before the take over. The ultimate indicator for success is customer satisfaction. Casual limited
questioning of the public by Bank staff and consultants, as well as surveys by ACUACAR suggest that it
is impressing its customers, none of which is willing to reverse the situation and go back to the state of
service prevailing before the take over by ACUACAR.
Improvements made by ACUACAR include: (i) increasing water supply, in production, treatment and
coverage; (ii) increasing sewerage coverage; (iii) improving water quality; (iv) introducing modern
commercial and recognizable management information systems; (v) installing water meters on practically
all its customers connections; (vi) improving continuity of service; (vii) rationalizing labor force; (viii)
putting in place a staff training program and creating an enabling and encouraging working environment;
(ix) investing heavily in Information Technology/Information Systems; (x) introducing an environment of
maintenance of assets; (xi) introducing automated control of processes and operation; (xii) improving
efficiency and financial performance; (xiii) undertaking significant investments for expansion of services
by borrowing from local banks and multilateral donors, although such investments are not mandatory
under the ACUACAR contract, (xiv) improving relations with customers; and (xv) creating relations of
trust with suppliers.
Increasing water supply, in production, treatment and coverage: Since take over, production capacity
increased from 165,000 m3/d to 256,000 m3/d, treatment capacity increased from 165,000 m3/d to
320,000 m3/d, 120 km of water networks were installed and water coverage increased from 75% to 80%.



Page 157
Increasing sewerage coverage: since take over sewerage coverage increased from 58% to 70%.
Improving water quality: The quality of water supplied to customers, which before the take over did not
meet the required quality standards, is now strictly monitored and its quality is better than the standard at
all times. The water treatment plant at El Bosque has been rehabilitated and is now most modern and
efficient. A new modem quality control laboratory has been built, equipped with most modern
instruments. It obtained the ISO 9002/94 accreditation on March 18, 1998.
Introducing modern commercial and recognizable management information systems: The commercial
and management information systems introduced are the most modern systems used by the AGBAR
group. A wealth of information is generated in the company and decisions are taken on the basis of that
information. ACUACAR installed a secure billing system with access control, service linkages and
classification of customer contact and has improved billing performance and collection. According to
ACUACAR's reports, it has met the recovery to billing ratio targets set out in Annex VIII to the contract
(85%) demonstrating a spectacular improvement over the previous public service. While that performance
is on target, 85% debt recovery combined with high non-revenue water still present a difficult business
environment when it comes to generating sufficient funds for improvement and expansion of services
within reasonable tariff limits.
Installing water meters on practically all its customers connections: by May 1998 there were a reported
96,297 customer connections, of which 91,406 were metered, indicating a metering level of 95%. All the
meters were installed after the take over. This may be close to effective saturation metering and should
permit a high degree of system control. It is doubtful that effective 100% metered supply is practically
achievable. Meter reading is realize at a one month frequency (i.e., 12 times a year), which is a very high
reading frequency. The Company's computerized system can download meter reading frequency data.
The company has reportedly been reducing illegal connections by around 2,000 per year over the period
1996, 1997 and to May 1998. That is suggestive of an active program of legalization of customers. The
Company has an apparently aggressive disconnection and lively reconnection policy. The outcome from
the figures for 1996, 1997 and 1998 seems to indicate that a growing number of customers is denied
access to water supply services.
Improving continuity of service: During the first five years of private sector operation of the water
distribution system it has succeeded in improving the continuity of supply and raise system pressures.
Approximately 100% of those currently served in the city receive a continuous supply of water
throughout 24 hours of the day, whereas this was only available to about 65% of the customers in 1995,
before the take over by ACUACAR.
Rationalizing labor force: The organization has been reduced dramatically from the pre company size of
about 1300 employees to around 250 directly employed staff and 110 indirectly employed staff. The
reported target is 300 overall but that may not be achievable nor desirable, should expansion move
forward rapidly. In terms of Staff number per customer the ratio is less than 4 per 1000 connections and is
reasonable for the Company's dynamic growth situation. There is relative stability within departments
and a very small tumover of personnel. The classic problem of an organization in decline has been
overcome in that staff have been enabled with appropriate tools to carry out allotted tasks. Management
centers follow a recognizable structure and the spread of personnel seem reasonable. At May 1998 the
composition was as follows; general management (23); human resources (20); finance (15); information
systems (18); commercial (107); technical (124); master planning (25); projects (4); and quality control
(29).
Putting in place a staff training program and creating an enabling and encouraging working
environment: The company has developed and implemented a training program (Plan de Formaci6n).
Subjects are clearly orientated towards the need of the business and the Human Resources department
seeks to give some training to all staff. From the May 1998 Company report, some 237 participants



Page 158
attended 21 courses ranging from one to one intensive training in quality systems and English to sector
service principles attended by 30 people over twelve hours. 128 Thousand hours of staff training (of the
order of 20% of available time) were provided in 1997, representing a major investment in enhancing
capacity and capability. Internally led training packages cover such subjects as the use of EXCEL
spreadsheet, ACCESS and GIS computer programs; communications systems; safety in dealing with
electricity at work; health and safety; chlorine handling; and working in confined spaces. Externally led
courses are provided in such as environmental matters, computer management (IBM) and quality
assurance procedures (ICONTEC). Several staff have also been sent to training in Spain, for periods of
up to one year, to acquire high level management skills.
Investing heavily in Information Technology/lInformation Systems: A systems directorate has been created
such that the Company operates on its own intranet with internet connection. It has a web site. This latter
facility is a light years step in exposure of the utility to local, national and international enquiry and
scrutiny. Widespread desk top access is available through Windows applications and the Company has
around 200 linked PC stations. Treatment plant operations are computer controlled using remote
monitoring and operation via telemetry connections.
Introducing an environment of maintenance of assets: One of the most depressing aspects of the
pre-ACUACAR era was the lack of systems maintenance, which resulted in corrosion, erosion and
deterioration of installations, in many cases up to an inoperable level. One of the important
improvements introduced by ACUACAR was the application of strict maintenance procedures, which are
not usually practices in Colombia. A visit to El Bosque treatment plant and review of pre and post
rehabilitation photographs in promotional literature and reports indicates that routine operations were
being carried out in a workmanlike way and that works had been rehabilitated. The plant is now tidy and
well maintained. It has been automated and is operated from a computerized control center. Pumping
stations have been rehabilitated as well and are well maintained. Those who know the systems from the
pre-ACUACAR era would be surprised from the amazing progress achieved by ACUACAR.
Introducing automated control ofprocesses and operation: The El Bosque treatment plant has been
automated and is operated from a computerized control center. Schematics, animated plant and
equipment status and performance information is stored and manipulated within the electronic system.
The combination of electronic information handling and hard copies indicate the high technical level of
ACUACAR. The pumping stations are controlled as well from the El Bosque control center. With the
expansion of the systems, the remote control systems also need to be expanded and improved.
Improving efficiency andfinancial performance: The PSP in the water sector in Cartagena has already
resulted in improved management and higher efficiency within the system. These efficiency gains have
resulted in cash generation which enabled the company to attract local and foreign loans and execute
works for systems expansion. These scope of works is obviously restricted by the capacity of cost
recovery dictated by the regulated level of tariffs, and does not include the entire scope of works required
to satisfy the needs of the Cartagena water and especially sanitation sectors. However, on June 1999, a
World Bank Loan to the District has been approved for a project of expansion of the water and sewerage
systems and or completing the wastewater disposal system of the city. The project is currently under
implementation.
Undertaking significant investments not mandatory under the service contract: Although not obligated to
do it under its service contact, ACUACAR has undertaken major loans that enable it to make investments
for expansion of the water and sewerage systems. ACUACAR is currently operating as if it was under a
concession arrangement.
Improving relations with customers: The Company operates three offices with easy access for customers
and has established relations with 12 banks and three supermarket chains for payment of bills. Addresses
are shown on service invoices as are methods of payment, notes on opening times, billing information,



Page 159
metering information and billing observations. The customer relations and billing department is a modern
set up and completely computerized. Protected access to key staff is available to interrogate customer
history. Program design allows searching on a wide range of parameters and filtering data for dealing
with customers and management information.
Creating relations of trust with suppliers: Relations with suppliers have reportedly been established such
that the Company is trusted and holds favored status as a responsible client. That should have been a
considerable boost to the local economy and have added credibility to the district as a place to do
business. It should reap the benefit of market discount. Arrangements have been set up such that work and
supplies are ordered through traceable systems and come under a regularized payment regime. Payments
are made via an authorization procedure whereby the Company sends instructions to its bank to pay
against approved batches of invoices twice per month. Suppliers are made aware of the system and collect
a certified cheque from the bank should their payment be due. The system is self disciplining in that
suppliers can revert immediately to the Company should their cheque not be in the appropriate batch.
The important conclusion from the information presented is that at present, in contrast to the pre-
ACUACAR period, there is a responsible manager that takes care of the water and sanitation services. He
is highly knowledgeable and experienced, uses the most modern commercial, financial and technical
instruments and practices, generates a wealth of operational, commercial and financial information and
takes decisions on the basis of this information.
The ultimate indicator of adequate performance is customer satisfaction. In the case of Cartagena,
customer satisfaction is high and nobody will accept reverting the service to the pre-PSP conditions,
although the current tariffs are much higher.
D. Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Water Services in Small Municipalities: The
Colombian Experience
Introduction
This chapter refers to the experience with private sector participation in small water utilities in Colombia.
The word "small" as used in this chapter refers to municipalities with population in the range of 10,000 to
30,000 inhabitants, which are the smallest utilities with PSP in Colombia to date. In comparison to the
large and medium size utilities which have been privatized in Colombia (with populations in the range
300,000 to 2,000,000 in Barranquilla) the municipalities with 10,000 to 30,000 inhabitants are really
small. However, according to the definition of small municipalities under the proposed project, the
municipalities referred to in this chapter are medium size. The private operators of the utilities referred to
in this chapter can act under the proposed project as both local operators of medium size utilities and
operators of small utilities.
Although Colombia transferred the esponsibility for water supply and sanitation (WS&S) services to
municipalities in 1987, the regional public agency of ACUANTIOQUIA continued to operate the system
in 40 municipalities in the department of Antioquia. The inefficiencies identified by the departmental
government in that agency made it undertake a drastic change of the institutional scheme: transferring
management from one public utility to multiple private operators, each of which will be responsible for
the provision of services in groups of 6 to 8 municipalities. A partial list of the small private water
operators in Antioquia and of the municipalities operated by each of them, which resulted from the
mentioned institutional reform, is presented in the Appendix. In 1997, ACUANTIOQUIA awarded a
management contract to CONHYDRA, a domestic private company, to manage services in Marinilla and
six other municipalities. The Ministry of Economic Development has documented the case of Marinilla,
a municipality with a population of 26,000 inhabitants. Following are the results and lessons learned from
this experience.



Page 160
Main Results of Private Management of the Water Utility of Marinilla
The provision of WS&S services in Marinilla has improved since CONHYDRA took over operation. In
March 1997, 21,600 people were connected to piped water and 19,500 to sewerage in this municipality.
By January 2000, an additional 3,500 of the city's inhabitants had been connected to the water system (a
15% increase). Sewerage coverage has increased by 5%, an increase of 700 connections, or 3,000 people.
The water quality has also been upgraded. Water pressures have been optimized and physical leakage has
diminished. The unaccounted-for water index has decreased from 46% to 41% in the last two years, and
is expected to be further reduced to below 35% by 2001. Service is provided 24 hours per day.
According to the last surveys, user satisfaction is at 93%.
CONHYDRA has been working in maintaining appropriate performance indicators in different areas. As
a result of this effort, CONHYDRA was awarded the international certification of quality assurance, ISO-
9001, in February 2000. Relevant performance indicators of CONHYDRA are presented in Tables 2, 3
and 4.
Table 2. CONHYDRA Technical Performance
MARINILLA                  March 1997       1999        2000*
Population                                n.a.        25,280       26,070
Number of water connections               5,880        6,754        7,106
Water supply coverage (/O)               94%          98%          99%
Sewerage coverage   (%)                   85%           88%         90%
Metering (%)                              84%          93%          100%
Water produced (million m3/year)          2.0          2.06         2.12
Unaccounted-for water (%)                 46%          41%          35%
Continuity of service (%)                 83%          100%         100%
Consumption per connection (m31month)     n.a.          15           15
: Projected
Source: CONPHYDRA
Table 3. CONHYDRA Financial Viability
MARINILLA                             1999
Annual billing (US$)                                     448,000
Collection rate (%)                                       84%
Total annual revenues (US$)                              375,000
Operating cost recovered (%)                              100%
Source CONHYDRA
Table 4. CONHYDRA Commercial Data
MARINILLA                             1999
Number of billed connections          5,673
Consumer complaints                   697
Consumer complaints resolved          697
Source: CONHYDRA
Marinilla provides an excellent example of the potential for private sector participation in the provision of
the water and sewerage services in small municipalities. Marinilla represents a valuable example of
increasing community participation in government decision-making. Despite practical and political
problems associated with decentralization in Colombia, strong evidence exists that local communities are
capable of organizing accountable institutions, reducing political interference, and promoting good
government practices for the benefit of their citizens.



Page 161
Prospects of Long-term Sustainability and Replicability
Three basic factors have encouraged an increasing number of municipalities in Latin America to look for
innovative alternatives to improve their coverage and quality of WS&S services:
*  Accumulated deterioration of existing infrastructure
*  Eroded financial condition of most municipalities and public utilities
*  Increasing demands of the population for more and better services
Experience demonstrated that the managerial model developed in Marinilla is a practical, realistic option
for increasing coverage and improving the quality of water services. The sustainability of this model is
not guaranteed, however. The municipality must direct efforts to consolidate the strengths of the
management model and overcome the following remaining obstacles and weaknesses:
> Institutional and legal barriers. To secure complete autonomy of the municipality and positive
results in the long run, it will be necessary to clarify the roles of the municipality and
departmental governments in the context of the decentralization process. ACUANTIOQUIA
must also complete the transfer of ownership of assets to the municipality of Marinilla.
> Financial restrictions. The backlog of investment in the WS&S sector is enormous, and annual
maintenance requirements are considerable especially in small municipalities. Tariff increases
are necessary, although in practice they are limited by the users' capacity to pay. Private sector
involvement can contribute to reducing, but will not eliminating, the need for government
financing and the government's obligation to develop innovative financial mechanisms and
provide guarantees and subsidies when necessary.
> Political risk. Although technical criteria have dominated the decision-making process in Marinilla,
political interference is an underlying risk. Mayors are elected every three years, and they have a
decisive influence on the Executive Board. There is a moderate risk of reversing the reform process
under the weight of a populist backlash before the real benefits can become consolidated. Clear,
stable rules and balanced contracts will be key factors in minimizing this type of risk.
Prospects for Replicability of the Model
Colombia has about 1,090 municipalities, 500 of them with populations ranging between 12,000 and
50,000 inhabitants. A great majority of these small municipalities have shown interest in transforming
public water utilities and modernizing managerial practices. The municipalities' increasing interest in
improving the provision of water and sanitation services may be channeled and strengthened through the
implementation of systematic technical assistance and financial programs designed by the federal
government with the support of international agencies.
The following five main stages are necessary to promote the replicability of the Marinilla management
model in other mid-sized and small municipalities and facilitate a successful transition from inefficient
public water utilities to autonomous and accountable companies:
*  Federal and municipal govemments must ensure strong and sustained commitment at the highest
political level.
*  Careful preparation of PSP projects is required. Govemments should finance and facilitate the
sound structuring of technical, financial, and legal aspects of sustainable PSP schemes.
Developing simple guidelines, model contracts, and standard bidding documents will help to
reduce transaction costs. Contracts must be clear and flexible and include incentives and
penalties according to the operator's performance.



Page 162
* Tariff levels should be consistently evaluated in relation to the population's payment capacity and
realistic investment programs. Governments need to improve the provision of subsidies for the
poor and facilitate wider access to the benefits of private sector involvement.
 Governments may have to maintain a financing role in the WS&S sector. The major challenge is
to find the right balance between public and private financing and risk sharing. Crucial
challenges for national governments and external financial institutions include the development
of risk-reduction mechanisms, local capital markets, guarantees that encourage long-term private
lending, and alternative financial instruments to provide accessible credit to investors and private
operators for at least the first five years of the PSP contracts.
* Governments must work to effectively manage consumer expectations. Experience suggests that
long-term benefits from private sector involvement take time to become firmly established. To
facilitate the public acceptance of the reform process, governments should foster community
involvement, promote the dissemination of transparent and reliable information, and implement
adequate supervision and control mechanisms.



Page 163
Appendix
Partial List of Private Participation in Water Utilities in Colombia, 1995-2000
Contracts and Schemes in Execution
Municipality          Department           Scheme             Operator          Initial
year
Large and Medium Size Utilities
I  Cartagena                        Bolivar            Mix                AGBAR            1995
2  Manizales                        Caldas             Mix           Aguas de Manizales     1996
3  Girardot                      Cundinamarca          Mix            LYSA-Lyonnaisse      1997
4   Barranquilla                   Atlantico           Mix                AGBAR             1997
5  Bogota -Tibitoc               Cundinamarca    Concession BOT      CGE-CFV-Fanalca        1997
6  Tunja                            Boyaca          Concession        AQA-SERAGUA           1997
7  Palmira                      Valle del Cauca        Mix            LYSA S.A E.S.P.       1997
8  Cajica                        Cundinamarca          Mix           Aguas de Manizales     1998
9   Santa Marta                   Magdalena            Mix                AGBAR             1998
10  Monteria                        C6rdoba          Concession             FCC             2000
11  Malambo                        Atlantico     Operation Contract    Uni6n Temporal       2000
Operadora de Servicios
del Norte.
Utilities in Municipalities of 10,000-30,000 Inhabitants in the Department of Antioquia
12  Santa Barbara, Fredonia,       Antioquia     Operation Contract Operadores de Servicios   1997
Valparaiso, Caramanta.                                                  s.a.
13  Turbo                          Antioquia     Operation Contract     Conhydra s.a.       1996
14  Marinilla, Sons6n, Santa Fe    Antioquia     Operation Contract     Conhydra s.a        1997
de A., Chigorodo, Mutata.
15  Caucasia, Taraza, Nechi,       Antioquia     Operation Contract   Consorcio Aguascol    1997
CAceres.                                                              Arbelaez.
16  Amalfi, Anori, Yali,           Antioquia     Operation Contract     Acueductos y        1997
P.Triunfo, Armenia,                                                Alcantarillados
Bolomb6, Ituango, San Jose                                       Sostenibles s.a.E.S.P.
de la Montafha.
17  San Pedro de los Milagros,     Antioquia     Operation Contract     Acueductos y        1997
Santa Rosa de Osos, Titiribi,                                      Alcantarillados
Venecia.                                                         Sostenibles s.a.E.S.P.
18  Apartado.                      Antioquia     Operation Contract     Presea E.S.P.       1996
19  Necocli, San Pedro de UrabA.   Antioquia     Operation Contract  Sistemas Puiblicos s.a.   1997
20  Andes, Ciudad Bolivar,         Antioquia     Operation Contract    Ingenieria Total     1997
Jardin, Salgar.                                                   Servicios Puiblicos.
Source: Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos Domiciliarios, Superintendencia Delegada para Acueducto,
Alcantarillado y Aseo. June, 2000.



Page 164
Annex 18: Private Sector Participation Experience in the Water Sector in Latin America
(The cases of the PSP in the Utilities of Buenos Aires, La Plata, Santiago and la Paz- El Alto)
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Introduction
Latin America has been a pioneer in PSP in the water and sanitation services in comparison to other parts
of the developing world, and is the region in which the greatest number of transaction have taken place.
The first PSP case was the concession of the water and sewerage services in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in
1993. Since then, PSP transactions were carried out in most of the countries in Latin America, with
Argentina, Colombia and Chile being the leaders of reforms, as a result of specific PSP promotion
policies adopted by the governments of these countries. Information regarding the experience of PSP in
the water sector in Colombia has been provided in other sections of the PAD document. In this Annex,
information is presented regarding the PSP experience in the water utilities of Buenos Aires and La Plata,
Argentina, Sntiago, Chile and La Paz-El Alto, Bolivia.
Argentina
The City of Buenos Aires. The concession of the water and sanitation services of the city of Buenos
Aires to Aguas Argentinas (AA) in 1993, serving a population of over 10 million inhabitants, has been a
successful experience. The main results can be summarized as follows: (i) a ten-fold increase in annual
WSS investments (from about US$20 million before 1993 to an average of US$200 million over the past
7 years), using a tariff that is still 12.5% below the level charged by the former public utility OSN; (ii) an
increase in coverage levels for water (from 70% to 83%) and sewage (from 58% to 69%); (iii) substantial
improvements in water quality (average turbidity decreased from more than 7 NTU to less than I NTU);
and (iv) a reduction in the time required to attend to pipe breaks from more than 5 days to less than I day
on average.
The Province of Buenos Aires. Azurix holds the WSS concession for the provincial capital of La Plata
and 3 of 4 other service areas within the province of Buenos Aires. [AGBA (Aguas de Grande Buenos
Aires, led by Aguas de Bilbao) has the concession for the remaining service area]. One and a half years
into the concession, Azurix is clearly struggling with the demands imposed by its regulator (ORAB),
whom it accuses of trying to impose the means to achieve contractual outcomes.
Chile
General information on PSP: Chile has 13 regional water companies (one each for the 12
"geographical" regions plus one for the Santiago metropolitan area) of which 5 (serving 73% of all
customers nationwide) have been privatized since December, 1998. In addition to the regional companies
there are a number of municipal WSS companies. In each of the 5 privatizations completed to date, a
block of shares was sold to a private concessionaire concurrently with an increase in the company's
equity (financed 100% by the private concessionaire). After the transaction, the private operator typically
holds 55% of all shares, while the State retains 35% and company employees receive 10% to ensure
appropriate buy-in. The remaining public assets are managed by a state holding company, the "Sistema
Administrador de Empresas - Corporaci6n de Fomento (SAE-CORFO), which also conducts the
privatization processes. Unlike PSP in Argentina, Chilean WSS privatizations were preceded by profound
sector reform: before 1990, Chile had 13 non-autonomous regional water authorities controlled by the
Ministry of Public Works. In 1990, these WSS authorities were converted into 13 autonomous public
companies regulated by the Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios (SISS). Only after this separation of
regulatory and operational responsibilities was well established, did significant PSP begin in 1998. In the
five major PSP transactions conducted to date, private operators paid share prices equivalent to between
7.7 and 16.2 times annual revenues and between US$1,348 and US$2,030 per water connection.



Page 165
Santiago. Empresa Municipal de Obras Sanitarias de Santiago (EMOS) is responsible for the water and
sanitation services in the Chilean capital. In Santiago, where the public operator was already very
efficient (about 1.5 employees per 1000 water connections before PSP) and where water and sewage
collection coverage were already high (100% and 97% respectively) PSP was sought primarily to finance
3 large sewage treatment plants (STP's). So far the new private operator has initiated one of the three
STP's (Trebal) and further cut back EMOS' workforce to about 1.2 employees per 1 000 water
connections.
Bolivia
La Paz - El Alto. La Paz- El Alto concession is an example of a case that has been designed to expand
service to the poorer households through private sector participation. This twenty-five year concession for
the neighboring cities of La Paz and El Alto in Bolivia was signed in August 1997. The primary objective
of the concession was to expand services to low income households while holding down costs by
increasing efficiency. The criteria used to select a private concessionaire was to have the bidders identify
the number of water connections they would make in exchange for a pre-specified tariff (unlike the
traditional approach of asking the bidders to specify the tariff they would require to meet pre-specified
investment and service obligations).
The winning bidder, the Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux consortium Aguas del Illimani committed to achieve
I 00 percent water coverage in La Paz and to install 71,752 new water connections in the El Alto
subsystem (the poorest in the metropolitan area) by December 2001 (from 87 percent coverage in 1997).
The concessionaire also committed to 90 percent sewer coverage in El Alto and 95 percent coverage in La
Paz by 2021 (from 48 percent coverage in 1997). The following were the key factors for preparing this
concession:
(i) An independent national body to grant and regulate concessions for municipal water and sanitation
services was created. The regulator monitors and enforces compliance with the expansion and
quality obligations but not the specific investments made by the concessionaire.
(ii) The contract specified requirements for service quality (including water quality, continuity of
service, water pressure and flow, and customer service). Such specifications have given the operator
the incentives to choose the most efficient way to provide the desired outputs.
(iii) The concession contract gives an exclusive right to provide services in a defined area and specifies
that all new water and sewer connections must be in-house connections. This has encouraged the
operator to expand services to customers which he might otherwise be unwilling to serve.
(iv) Innovative technological and institutional solutions for service in low income households were
identified, tested, and adopted.
(v) An increasing block tariff structure and an average 38.5 percent tariff increase were introduced just
before the concession began, so as to ensure cost recovery. The regulator approves all tariff
revisions over the life of the contract. The first tariff review is scheduled to take place five years
into the contract; in the interim, tariffs are indexed to the US dollar.
(vi) The contract sets maximum connection fees of US$155 for a water connection and US$180 for a
sewerage connection for both in-fill connections on existing lines and for connections in areas with
no existing network, however, to avoid the operator's preference in focusing on in-fill connections,
the contract mandates that in-fill connections can account for no more than half of all new
connections.



Page 166
Lessons Learned
The operators and regulators from the cases reviewed above have made the following recommendations
to improve future concession transactions in the water and sanitation sector in Latin America:
* Clearly define targets, not means for achieving them;
* Reduce the performance guarantee posted by the concessionaire over time. AA pointed out that its
current US$150 million performance guarantee limits its ability to contract debt capital, since banks
factor in the value of such guarantees when calculating overall indebtedness. The value of unamortized
investments in the ground is a far better guarantee that the concessionaire will not withdraw from the
concession.
* Contracts should contain provisions that allow the concessionaire to recover his non-amortized
investment costs in case the concession contract is cancelled prematurely.
* Instead of front-loading civil works during the first 2 years of the contract, allow the concessionaire a
I year period to take stock of existing assets and prepare tenders for the first batch of works. Especially
where the documentation is incomplete or out of date (e.g. after a long drawn out tender process), there
may be immediate investments needs not considered in the tender documents.
* Investment plans will not be honored by the concessionaire simply because they form part of the
concession contract. Concessionaires will seek to circumvent investments that are not financially viable
by any means necessary. Use subsidies from public funds (or reinvest proceeds from canon payments) to
make socially (or environmentally) desired investments financially viable for the concessionaire.
* Concession contracts should be clear about what civil works, goods and services need to be procured
publicly by the concessionaire. Otherwise concessionaires that are linked to industrial groups are likely to
purchase internally at non-competitive prices that are then passed through to consumers. In Santiago de
Chile, for example, the new private concessionaire is required to tender any contract above US$150,000
publicly.
* Concession contracts usually require the concessionaire to reach minimum service pressures (e.g. I
bar) in water supply systems by deadlines that may be several years in the future. Intermediate targets are
recommended to allow the regulator to monitor progress.
* Local particularities should be considered when fixing the time frame for reaching desired water
quality targets. Uniform timeframes for service areas with a great variety of raw water sources may
impose unnecessary costs on consumers. Where raw water salinity or turbidity is relatively high but
treated water is bacteriologically safe, for example, it may be preferable to allow more time for
concessionaires to comply with water quality standards that impact only the water's appearance and taste
but not sacrifices public health.



Page 167
Annex 19: Comparison of the Performance of Private and Public Water Utilities with
Respect to of Services Expansion to Low-Income Areas
COLOMBIA: WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Background
Colombia is currently one of the Latin American countries most actively engaged in processes associated
with incorportaing private sector participation in the management of water utilities. One of the
community's main concerns regarding PSP in the water utilities is that attempts to reform the sector by
treating water and sanitation services as an economic asset rather than as a social good and allowing
providers to apply commercial (profit-oriented) criteria, may harbor a tendency to restrict access to the
services for low-income users because they are not perceived as an attractive "business" for private
entrepreneurs.
Since the government is embarking on a water sector modernization program whose strategy is to
promote PSP in water utilities, and one of its objectives is to expand and improve the provision of
services to the poor, it was considered necessary to find out if the common perception of the population
and the concerns of the community that the private sector focuses on providing good services to the
wealthy and neglects the poor, is anchored in reality and can be proved on the basis of the performance of
privatized utilities in Colombia. For that purpose, a study was carried out during project preparation,
aimed at testing the mentioned perception.
The Objective of the Study
The objective of the study described in this Annex was to compare the performance of private and public
service providers with regard to expansion of services in low-income areas, defined as areas socially
classified as strata Ito 3 areas, in which water and sewerage tariffs are subsidized. Cartagena,
Barranquilla, and Tunja were selected as the private providers since they were the first large water and
sewerage companies managed by private operators in Colombia and their performance can therefore be
examined over time.38 The performance of the privatized utilities was compared with that of the most
efficient public utilities in the country. The selected efficient public utilities were those of Bogota (which
provided information regarding water and sewerage), Medellin39 and Manizales (both of which provided
information only on water).
Results
The study reviewed the performance of the utilities focusing on service expansion to the poor in the six
mentioned cities. Given that in Colombia, for utility rates purposes, the population in each municipality
is divided into six strata, it may be assumed that the poorest users are classified in strata 1, 2, and 3,
whereby stratum I refers to the lowest income groups and stratum 6 to those with the highest income.40
This study analyzes the increase in the number of connections per stratum made by each company in the
1995-1999 period.
The findings show that both the publicly and the private utilities focused in their expansion efforts on low
income groups (strata I to 3), which, under Colombian law, are eligible for subsidies. In terms of water
expansion to low income areas, the private utilities performance was similar to that of Medellin, which is
38 The ACUACAR Company began operating in Cartagena in 1995. The AAA started operating in Barranquilla in
1996, and in Tunja private sector involvement began in 1997. Thus the periods under review are 1995-1999 for
Cartagena, 1996-1999 for Barranquilla, and 1997-1999 for Tunja.
39 Excluding the metropolitan area.
40 Based on the 1997 nation-wide Quality of Living Survey, the inter-stratum relationship is being studied.



Page 168
one of the most efficient public providers in the country. A detailed breakdown of the distribution of new
connections by stratum in each city4' showed that privately run utilities focused their expansion of water
and sewage connections on users in stratum 1, Medellin and Manizales focused on stratum 2, and Bogota
on users in stratum 3.
Chart I shows the distribution of new water connections by stratum over the past four years. It
demonstrates quite clearly that in the case of the private providers, over 45% of new water connections
were for stratum 1, a similar performance to that of the most efficient public provider, Medellin. The
figure for the other two public providers was 11% in Bogota and 8% in Manizales. For strata I and 2
combined, in Cartagena 80% of new connections were for users in those two lowest strata; in Barranquilla
60%; in Tunja 79%, a proportion similar to that of Medellin's; while in Manizales the equivalent number
is 57%; and in Bogota only 40%. Most of the new connections in Bogota (55%) were for stratum 3 users,
who, although they receive lower subsidies, could not really be defined as poor. In Manizales the
percentage of connections in stratum 3 was 22%. Stratum 3 received 16% of new connections in
Medellin, 22% in Barranquilla, 12% in Cartagena, and 7% in Tunja.
For sewerage services42 the figures also indicate that the poorest users have benefited from new
connections to this service. As in the case of water, the three privately operated utilities studied have
made the bulk of the new connections benefiting users in strata 1, 2, and 3.
Chart 2 shows the distribution of new sewerage connections by stratum in the 1995-1999 period.43 New
sewerage connections by tlhe private companies focused significantly on stratum I users: 31% in
Cartagena, 27% in Barranquilla, and 22% Tunja, compared to 7% in BogotA. Most of the new sewerage
connections in Tunja were for stratum 2 users (53%), while in Cartagena the equivalent figure was 50%,
in BogotA 30%, and in Barranquilla 13%. As with water, stratum 3 was the most privileged segment in
Bogota with respect to sewerage connections, receiving 66% of the total. In Barranquilla stratum 3
received 30% of new connections; in Cartagena 21% and in Tunja 8%.
" The "new connections per stratum" criterion was considered appropriate for this analysis. Another criterion -
changes in coverage in each stratum by city - was also explored. There are problems with the data needed for this
calculation, particularly because the utility companies sometimes use a stratification that differs from the official one
for each city, as part of a commercial strategy geared to restratifying in order to lower rates and collect a higher
volume of payments for water and sewage disposal services.
42 The study compares Cartagena, Barranquilla, and Tunja, all of which have private sector operators, with Bogota
(3public).
4In the case of AAA, the water utility of Barranquilla, the data on new sewage disposal connections cover the
period from 1996 to March 2000.



Page 169
Who benefited from the incremental water connections?
(1995-99)
70%
60%
0
450%        -                 S
C
4 20% -
1 30%
C20%   -
u10%
0% L~JJL
*        Stratum 1     Stratum 2      atum 3       Stratum 4     Stratum 5     Stratum 6
-10%
-20%
O Bogota - EAAB            M Medellin-EPM(ESP)         E Manizales
* Cartagena - ACUACAR   M Barranquilla - AAA           OTunja-Sera.q.a
Who benefited from the incrmental sewerage connections?
(1 995-99)
70%
60%
50%                             - _ e
40%
30%    -                        -   -
20% .-
IC 0
0%
Stratum 1        Stratum 2     Stratu3                         MStratum 6
-20%           E                                           ..... _. .... . .... ... __._ .
O Bogota -EAAB * Cartagena -ACUACAR " BarranquiElia-AAA E]Tunja-Sera.q.a 



Page 170
The study also reviewed the findings regarding overall expansion of coverage by stratum in the same
period (1995-1999). In the case of water, the total number of connections increased 38% in Barranquilla,
31% in Cartagena, and 12% in Tunja, while the increase in cities with publicly-run utilities were 25% in
Medellin, 25% in Manizales, and 23% in Bogota. A breakdown by strata shows how the private utilities
have greatly improved access for stratum I users to both piped water and sewerage services.
Comparing, specifically, the number of currently existing connections with those that existed at the start
of the PSP process, the data show that stratum I water connections in Cartagena increased 104%, and
those in Barranquilla 89%, following a trend set by Medellin (187%), while in Tunja they increased by
almost 50%, compared with 16% in Manizales and 70% in Bogota.
(See Chart No. 3).
Comparing Cartagena, Barranquilla, and Bogota in terms of the increases in sewerage connections by
stratum during this period, it emerged that access to this service increased considerably. Chart No. 4
shows that the total number of connections rose 38% in Barranquilla, 23% in Cartagena, and 2% in
Bogota. For stratum I in the same period the increase in Cartagena was 235% (over four years) and in
Barranquilla 146% (over three years). These figures are not strictly speaking comparable with the lower
findings for Bogota, given that Barranquilla and Cartagena started the period with far lower coverage
levels than Bogota. However, as an order of magnitude, in that same period Bogota increased sewerage
connections by 46% for stratum I and by 56% for stratum 6, whereas in Cartagena and Barranquilla the
increases in total connections for stratum 6 were only 2% and 6%, respectively.



Page 171
Coverage increment per stratum, residential and total - Water (1995-99)
200%
150%                                                     . .
E
100%
0
16  50%
0%
Stratum 1    Stratum 2      mtrn 3    Stratum 4    Stratum 5    Stratum 6  RESIDENTIAL   TOTAL
-50%
Fl Bogota - EAAB               UMedellin-EPM(ESP)                  Manizales
Cartagena - ACUACAR               Barranquil        AAla - AAA E Tunja-Sera.q.a
Coverage increment per stratum, residential and total - Sewerage (1 995-99)
250%
200
10%
0
CC100%
50
0%
Stratum I    Stratum 2    Stratum 3    Srtm 4    Stratum 5    Stratum 6  RESIDENTIAL   TOTAL
-50%
E Bogota -EAAB ECartagena -ACUACAR IMBarranquilla -AAA E]Tunja-Sera.q .ai



Page 172
Conclusions
The findings of this study show that private utilities are responding to users' service needs irrespective of
their income level. As shown above, the majority of new connections by privately run utilities benefited
users in stratum I. Thus it is possible to assert that privately operated utilities have not impaired the
interests of low-income users, and specifically those in strata I and 2. In the five years of experience with
private participation in the water and sanitation sector in Colombia, the municipalities with private
operators have improved their coverage and continuity of service indicators substantially, streamlined
their work force and had a major positive impact on poor households. Since the date a private operator
was introduced in Cartagena, 98% of new connections were made in strata 1 and 2. In Barranquilla the
corresponding figure was 86%, in Tunja 79%, and in another private utility, Santa Marta, over 50%.
It should be explained that in when the private operators took over the utilities in Cartagena and
Barranquilla, the coverage was lowest among low-income inhabitants, as in most cities in Latin America.
As greater coverage was sought under the contracts of the private operators, the way to achieve it was
necessarily to increase the number of new connections in the poorest areas. In fact, in Cartagena,
coverage of strata I and 2 rose from 65% to 85%. Analysis of new connections shows clearly that, even
without contractual obligations expressly requiring operators to serve inhabitants in strata I and 2 (as in
the Cartagena and Barranquilla contracts), users in these strata are receiving connections at a pace similar
to that of Medellin, and even higher than that of areas covered by other public utilities, such as those in
Bogota and Manizales.
It should also be noted that in the period under review all utilities received national and or local
government support for connecting new low-income users. Even if all the new connections in strata I and
2 carried out by the Cartagena and Barranquilla utilities had been funded by municipal or national
subsidies, it remains true that these privately utilities substantially raised the number of connections for
stratum I in a relatively short period of time, which is not achieved in most of the public utilities in the
country. Another conclusion is that users in strata I and 2 are better off with respect to these services
thani they were prior to the arrival of the private-sector operators, because their publicly-run predecessors
had excluded them for years. In many cases, the dearth of public sector incentives and inefficiency of
public utilities impeded execution even of subsidies and government transfers, whereas private operators
have greater incentives to invest in low-income areas, since they increase market volume.
Private utilities are generally more efficient than public utilities because of a number of reasons:
* Public utilities turn into political fortresses of the government. They are subject to
political interference in decision-making, especially with respect to the appointment and
withdrawal of managers. They tend to be overstaffed and to siphon off funds from the
budget to cover administrative costs, thereby preventing funds from being directed to
new investment.
* The rates charged for services do not cover operating and investment costs. Municipal
authorities prefers not to raise rates rather than face the political costs of a hike.
* At best rates suffice only to cover operating and maintenance costs and the municipality
is supposed to provide to the public utility funds for investment and for covering deficits.
Usually these barely cover very short-term investments or contingencies.
* At the same time, public operators put off investing in new connections either due to lack
of funds or because users have problems complying with current regulations. Would-be



Page 173
users have to have title deeds for the properties to be connected, as well as a building
registration certificate."
It has been shown that PSP processes rapidly achieve improvements in the coverage rates and quality of
services, especially in municipalities which used to be particularly deficient in this respect. Compared
with public utilities, private operators can more easily tap short-term funds to invest in new connections,
apart from the fact that one ingredient in their commercial strategy is to raise the number of users in all
strata. The low-income population is thus benefiting rapidly because it constitutes a new clientele. At the
same time, public utilities generally have less investment capacity and are more inefficient in allocating
resources, causing delays in expansion of coverage, thereby negatively affecting the low-income
population, which is the segment least likely to have access to the services under publicly-run utilities.
4 In the specific case of Bogota, the last administration regularized the status of 300 irregular districts, paving the
way for water distribution and sewage disposal connections for almost 500,000 people. Barranquilla and Cartagena
each have a large number of "informal" districts. Nevertheless, private operators have taken steps to mitigate the
effects of this and do not condition access to service on legalization of properties. Some of those steps include
shared connections or outlets, often for a whole block, from which water is then distributed to neighbors. An average
rate is charged for water consumption. As regards payment, the community has organized itself and controls both
consumption and collection.






Caribbea   S eea          75                        74                         73                         72'                       71'
--- INIEiNAIINAATiOIINOAiMES                        9ti   ai " '. .' COLOMBIA
14 WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
HA  '.'                   REDEVEHEZUELA ,sg                 -. 'MEDIUM SIZE AND SMALL MUNICIPALITIES IN
THE ATLANTIC COASTAL REGION
MEDItUM SIZE MUNfCIPALITIES IN THE ATLANTIC COASTAL REGION
(WITH POPULATION Of OVER 12,000 INHABITANTS)
6       WITH PSP fN THE WATER UTILITIES
722!5,:,f,,.,,,, >~--{0  do Bd2ot9/  <;         'ARCHIPILEA4GO  DE                     U       WITH PUBLiC UTfItTfES
SAN ANDRES,
" J '  t  1 v $./8   9   i       \ >         .    PROVIDENClA  Y                            SMALL MLINICIPAUTiES N TTE ATtANTIC COASTAL REGION
13-                                                (WITH POPULATION BETWEEEN 2,000 AND 12,000 INHABITANTS)        13'
SANTA  CATALINA                      0       WITH PSP IN THE WATER UTILITIES
-3      WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES
-O'  -< uE                ATLANTIC COASTAL REGtON
EC     R                                BPAZIL              o             3                       (   DEPARTMENT CAfTALS
/                                                   I                               z      <>_n ~. T zo 2 0 2 -   MUNIOPAUTY BOIUNDARIES
0 2
E R                                             ,,                 LEJ                       DEPARTMAENT BOUNDARIES
I                                                            -.P E R U<<_   ~   l2t  MIES   MILFS  -   INTERNATIONAL BOULDARIES
i3 UHbi)             12'
76'          :/
Thismopeprd-ucdby lh.                               C a r i b b e a n
Mop Design Unit oF The Woeld Bonhc.
The boindeies, ;olos,denominosions.Y
-nd Unor tohsr ioenormipo shown- on                        S e a                                                 M.
this mopn do noti mply, on the pnrt oF           -                                              io.l .n / nour s/,{
Th. Wodd -onk Goup, oy jdgment                                                                                                                     Golh de
on tIe Imnpalsteus oleetr nyritory orn
- onyendorsement oroccepton  oFb
'such boundaries >-w     
_'4'.t<~'.'".,." ,'    . .A.S  .,RiA, '.'.,   '    ' . ':'   <   '   <  .  zS nta  M   \    j         \Venezuela
.'11e , ' "'                                Colomlsie   rr)n
- _n.l _r , -,.~J..d.-;< e
t'>$tal -2; ,   +                                                                                                                                             ' - o  10'
B -               .-                       M'E             Eecri/           RB.   DE
< $ > 6 r < - 1 n r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Maracaibo
El  El  "ToM       El       hon                           VENEZUELA~~~Ag.M C-'                   ak
CORD                                  g'    El    0NRTV E N E Z U E L A
.l Cj~onde Qona@                                                                                -' OItA   G-
c6                                                                                  N ORTE Ocuo1 \
/    Vt  _ratirS   d              $/                                                     A
t~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~t    .-' Nob4n  ''AnerirR              P           bnMr  
/41  ,SANTANDE SANRAND
L~~~~~~ /                                                                               1J}iaoPni;'~~
,N                              MedellANTIOQUTA ':S                                                                '                                     .r\,'
7                                                                            !            SANTANDER                                                                  7'A  7
74'                                               ! )                 ARAUCA
t                                   . ~~~~~~BO YA CA.
0         25    50      75    100            
.                 Yl~~~~~KLOMbEIrERS                                                      o
rn   \                         ,1 ~~~~~~,                    ,.                 -/ ~~~~CASANARE                                        r
c -; 6;6                                          7 5     ~        >             74'                           7 ) zv"                        7,2 



