Report No. 824a-KO                                                             FILE  C"OP
Republic of Korea
Appraisal of
Second Integrated Dairy Development Project
October 13, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects
General Agriculture Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUVALENTS
US$1           -    485 won
Won 100        -    US$0.206
Won 1,000,000  -    US$2,062
WEIGES AND MEASURES
(Metr$.c System)
1 kilogram (kg)     -    2.202 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ut)   -    2,200 pounds (lb)
1 m±llareter (m)   -    0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (i)          a    39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)    -    0.621 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)            2.475 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer
(sq km)                 0.39  aquere miles (sq mi)
1 cubic meter (cu in)-   35.71 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)         -    0.219 gallons (British)
1 liter (1)         -    Q.264 gallons (US)
QJpsY AW  ,,XVATGS
AI   -    Artifi%4al Insemination
AU   -    himel wuit
AFDC -    Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
EPB  -    Economic Planning Board
KDBC -    Korea Dairy Beef Company
KVA  -    Kilovolt Amperes
MAF  -    Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF -    National Agriculture Cooperative Federation
ORD  -    Office of Rural Development
RME  -    Raw Milk Equivalent



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................         ...........   i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .......         .................................1
II.    BACKGROUND            ...........................................       1
A.    General           .........................................1
B.    The Agricultural Sector .........................                 2
C.   Agricultural Services ...........................                  4
D.    Dairy Products Sub-Sector .......................                 5
III.    THE PROJECT ...                         .......... ................     6
A.   KDBC's Dairy Development Program .              ...............    6
B.    Project Objectives ..............................                 8
C.    Project Description .........  ..................                 8
D.    The Project Areas ......         .....................            9
E.    Detailed Features ...............................                 9
F.    Project Costs ...................................                13
G.   Proposed Financing ....................... % .......              15
H.   Procurement ......................................                16
I.   Disbursements .......         ............................        17
J.   Accounts and Audit ......            ........................     17
IV.   MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION .....            ..................         18
A.    The Korea Dairy Beef Company ....................    18
B.    Lending Operations           .    .............................  19
V.   PROJECT PRODUCTION MARKETING AND PRODUCT PRICES    ......    19
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........              ..........    21
A.   Financial Results ...............................    21
B.    Economic Analysis ...... .........................               23
VII.   RECOMNENDATIONS ..................................    24
A.  Assurances               ....................  24
B.   Effectiveness .........           ..........................      25



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture and the Livestock Industry
2.   Dairy Products Processing and Marketing
3.   The Korea Dairy Beef Company and Dairy Development Froject I
4.   Financial Analysis:  On Farm Development
5.   Financial Analysis:  Processing Plants
6.   Technical Assistance and Management Support
7.   Economic Analysis
8.   Project Finance and Estimated Disbursements
MAP
No. IBRD-11660



KOREA
THE SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Korea.  This
sector employs about half of the total labor force, accounts for nearly 23%
of GNP and provides raw materials and markets for a large share of Korea's
dynamic industrial sector. However, agriculture's importance in the economy
as measured by its share of employment, GNP and total exports has declined
in the last decade and agricultural production has not kept pace with grow-
ing market requirements. Income gains of the rural population have improved
considerably in recent years and are near parity with the urban population.
ii.       Government is placing increasing priority on agricultural develop-
ment and is preparing and implementing programs and projects to assist the
farmers in taking advantage of opportunities to diversify their production
and utilize their labor more fully. Fundamental to this development is the
consolidation of agricultural resources into viable production units which
are capable of maintaining or improving the relative income position of
farmers in the industrialized economy. Livestock farming has considerable
potential for achieving these goals.
iii.      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's seventh in agricul-
ture in Korea (totaling US$130.5 million) and the second loan for livestock
development. The Project would continue Bank Group support of the livestock
sector commenced under the Integrated Dairy/Beef Development Project (Credit
234-KO) of US$7 million on which disbursements will be completed in,Aovember
1975. The Project would provide for on-farm development of 4,600 ha of
unutilized land and 2,000 ha of partially developed land. 450 new family-sized
dairy farms based initially on the production of 8 imported heifers would
be established, and about 400 existing farms presently with an average
of 5 heifers would be expanded to assure their long term viability. The
milk processing facilities constructed under the first project would be
expanded to increase the production of baby milk powder, sterilized fluid
milk and whole milk powder, and would be diversified to include the pro-
duction of butterfat, evaporated milk and powdered coffee creamer. A frozen
milk products plant would be constructed at Yeongnam and two milk collection
centers opened, one near Jinui and the other at Honam. Technical services
currently availaile for development of both farm and milk processing facilities
would be continued with greater emphasis on training of Korean staff.
iv.       The Korea Dairy Beef Company (KDBC) which was the executing agency
for the first livestock project, would be the executing agency for the proposed
second project. Under the guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fish-
eries, it would be responsible for (a) planning, disbursement and supervision
of farm development loans; (b) planning, financing, construction and opera-
tion of milk processing facilities; (c) product marketing, and (d) local train-
ing of KDBC staff and participating farmers.



- ii -
v.        Total project cost, including working capital and contingencies
in the disbursement phase, is estimated at US$24.5 million. About US$13.9
million would be used for dairy farm development, US$8.8 million for the
construction of dairy processing facilities, US$1.8 million for management
and technical services. The proposed IBRD loan of US$15.0 million would
finance all foreign exchange costs of the proposed project. The Government
contribution would be US$3.9 million. Farmers would contribute a total of
US$2.6 million to the Project, i.e. about 27% of total dairy development
costs excluding contingencies. KDBC would provide US$3.0 million raised
through share capital of which 70% would finance the local cost component
of investre'nts in dairy processing, 20% for the local costs of plant working
capital and 10% for costs incurred in management and technical services to
farmers, and for milk processing. Government would on-lend the IBRD loan
to KDBC at 8.5% for 15 years, including 6 years grace. Government would assume
the foreign exchange risk for IBRD funds for farm development and technical
services while KDBC would assume the foreign exchange risk on the processing
facilities. Additional funds would be provided by Government through the
National Agriculture Cooperative Federation (NACF) to KDBC at 9.0% for 9 years
with 4 years grace. KDBC would on-lend pasture establishment funds to farmers
at 9%, for 9 years, including 3 years grace, and all other funds for dairy
farm development at 12% for 9 years, including 3 years grace.
vi.       International competitive bidding, in accordance with IBRD Guide-
lines, would be used for the purchase of dairy processing and other equip-
ment (US$3.9 million). Price quotations would be obtained from at least
three countries for importation of dairy heifers (US$4.48 million) as is
usual in other Bank livestock projects (para 3.16). Other items would be
procured through competitive bidding locally advertised or through existing
commercial channels.
vii.      At full development the project would directly benefit 850 farm
households and would raise net farm incomes about 350%.  The Project would
produce about 22,600 mt of raw milk per year which would add to the national
production of processed milk products by about 5500 mt of sterilized milk,
1800 mt of baby milk powder, 460 mt of powdered coffee creamer and 11,000 mt
of frozen milk products. In addition, national beef production would be
increased by 900 mt of beef per year. New on-farm jobs would be created for
800-1000 permanent workers and about 3,500 casual workers. The estimated
financial rate of return to the farmers investment would range from 20-28%.
The economic rate of return for the proposed project is estimated to be 15%.
viii. .        The Project would assist the Government in its effort to expand
livestock production, raise rural incomes, and substitute imported feed
concentrates with grass and fodder crops. It would enable farmers to
diversify their production, utilize their labor more fully, and bring pre-
viously unused upland into production. In addition, the extension and
research activities in pasture development, dairy husbandry and milk pro-
duction and processing, would encourage improvement in the efficiency of
dairy production not only in the project areas, but throughout Korea.



- iii -
ix.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million
equivalent to the Republic of Korea for a 25 year term, including seven
years of grace.






REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank Group
funds to assist the development of its livestock industry. The project was
appraised by a mission comprised of Messrs. C. Fox, P. Melkye, Ms. R. Torreira
(IBRD) and Messrs. F. Knobel and D. King (Consultants) in July/August, 1974.
A post appraisal mission comprised of Messrs. Fox, Melkye and Downing returned
to Korea in December 1974 to review with the Government of Korea and the Korea
Dairy Beef Company the findings of the appraisal mission and explore ways of
improving the efficiency of the proposed development. While the mission was
in Korea, Government announced a 20% devaluation of the won. This neces-
sitated considerable reworking of the data and modification of the Project
in order to take into account changes in the Government's price and subsidy
policy towards the livestock sector. These aspects of the Project had to be
reviewed further in Korea in April 1975, by Messrs. Fox and Melkye.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Korea covers an area of about 98,000 km2 and has
a population of about 34 million. During 1963-72, real GNP rose at an
average annual rate of nearly 10%. The rapid increase of national output,
together with a decline in the population growth rate from 2.3% in 1965
to 1.7% in the early 1970's made possible the doubling of real per capita
GNP to $310 by 1972. The driving force behind Korea's growth has been the
expansion of the industrial sector which in 1972 contributed 26% of GNP sur-
passing that of agriculture for the first time.
2.02      While lagging behind the rest of the economy, agricultural pro-
duction nonetheless expanded by a creditable 3.5% per annum during 1967-72
and in 1974 accounted for 25.5% of GNP. Livestock production increased 4.4%
during 1962-72 and in 1974 rose 7.5% mainly due to larger inputs of feed
grains. During the next few years, livestock production is expected to
increase about 5% per annum.
2.03      Korea has achieved significant increases in exports of agricul-
tural and fishery products. Foreign exchzalge earnings from these sources
increased from US$178 million in 1971 to US$423 million in 1974. Most of
this increase has come from increased exports of silk and fishery products.
Increased foreign exchange earnings from these sources, however, have not



- 2 -
kept pace with growing imports of grains and livestock products. Consequent-
ly, Korea's trade deficit in the agricultural sector (including fisheries)
increased from US$115 million in 1971 to US$333 million in 1974 and is likely
to total about US$360 million in 1975 due to larger grain imports.
2.04       The Government places higher priority on agricultural development
in its investment program for 1975 than it did in 1974. Total investment
outlays from all sources for agriculture (including forestry and fisheries)
are expected to rise from US$354 million in 1974 to US$544 million in
1975, two-thirds of the increase be-Ing used to support rural development
projects under the Sae Maeul MovemenL (Annex 1, para 6). Agriculture's
share of total investment outlays would rise from 8% in 1974 to 10.9% in
1975.  The Government budget for agriculture is expected to increase from
16.9% in 1974 to 20% in 1975. Agriculture's share of foreign capital in
the Government budget would rise from 7% in 1974 to 14% in 1975. These
budgetary increases, however, will be barely sufficient to keep pace with
rising prices.
2.05       The Government's development strategy for agriculture is based on
export expansion and import substitution programs. High priority is given
to expansion of foodgrain production to achieve self-sufficiency; improve-
ment of the relative income position of farmers to urban workers; diversi-
fication of on-farm production and more efficient usage of farm labor.
Growth in livestock production offers Government a meais of attaining their
goals and is an integral part of the strategy of achieving the structural
changes in the rural economy being pursued through the Sae Maeul Movement.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
2.06       Of the 10 million hectares in Korea, 70% is idle woodland sparsely
covered with trees. Of the remaining 3.0 million ha, there are 2.3 million
ha of cultivated land, 60% is irrigated and the rest dry upland. Farm
households total 2.5 million with an average land size of 1 ha. In 1973,
36% of Korea farm housholds had less than 0.5 ha of cropland and comprised
about half the population in the lowest 40% income category. The other
half are low-income families in urban areas. Since the 1950's land reform
almost all the 2.3 million ha of cultivated land is owner operated.
2.07       Rural household incomes increased greatly in 1973 and 1974 follow-
ing larger farm output and a concerted Government effort to raise the price
of farm products and at the same time subsidize the cost of inputs (notably
fertilizers). Rural household incomes at the end of 1974 were near parity
with urban household incomes. However, as rural households are larger and
have more workers per household than do urban households, per worker incomes
average about 50% lower than in urban areas. In spite of a long-term down-
ward trend in farm employment, agriculture still employs about half the total
work force.



-3-
Cattle Production
2.08       Of the cattle population of 1.8 million, all are native Korean
cattle except for 8,000 head of specialized beef breeds and 65,000 dairy
cattle. In 1972, the average herd size per owner family for mature cattle
was 1.2 head, and dairy cattle 9.2 head. Over 1 million of Korea's 2.5
million farm families keep cattle for draft power, and cattle for specialized
beef production, are raised on a little over 1% of all farm households.
2.09       Beef production was estimated at about 46,000 mt in 1973.  Domestic
production of milk increased from 4,512 mt in 1963 to 104,082 mt in 1973,
yearly consumption per capita increasing from 1.3 kg to about 4 kg 1l. There
have been no commercial imports of milk products since 1965 and gift imports
ceased in 1972.
2.10       There are substantial untapped land resources that could be pro-
fitably developed for cattle production. Estimates for establishment of
improved pastures, based on suitable soil quality and ground slope, range
from 350,000 to 800,000 ha. In addition the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF) considers that there are about 700,000 ha of lowland
irrigated paddy fields which could be double-cropped for hay, silage or green
feed. These areas represent more than the industry could be expected to use
in the next 15 or so years even with ambitious livestock production expansion
programs. A review of agriculture and the livestock industry in Korea is
provided in Annex 1.
Animal Health
2.11       Animal health hazards are not a serious impediment to livestock
production. The two main production hazards are infertility and mastitis. 2/
Available evidence suggests that infertility is the result of deficiencies
in the artificial insemination service and inadequate nutrition. Farmers
will require ongoing technical assistance to control mastitis. Strict
quarantine and import regulations ensure that major diseases are not intro-
duced during importation.
1/    As compared with per capita consumption of milk and milk products of
0.5 kg per annum in Indonesia, 17.4 kg per annum in the Philippines
and over .O kg in Japan.
2/    An infection of the milk glands that may cause serious loss in
production and quality of milk. The infection may be controlled by
observing strict milking hygiene and through the use of antibiotics.



C. Agricultural Services
Research, Extension and Education
2.12      Agricultural research and extension services are provided princi-
pally by the MAF through the Office of Rural Development (ORD) and the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF). ServiceS are numerous
and there are adequate facilities; however, the quality of livestock research
and extension needs considerable improvement. A priority task would be to
provide tl'2 fairmer with simple input-output data on the production and yields
of grain and forage crops, on fertilizer and concentrate use, and to work out
the management and husbandry systems best suited to the Korean environment.
Current programs are deficient in meeting these needs but would be improved
by provision of technical services in the proposed project.
2.13      There are more than 180 agricultural high schools and 16 agricul-
tural colleges, 13 of which offer training in livestock production, manage-
ment and processing and in veterinary medicine. Short courses are available
to farmers through the extension service. The Korea-New Zealand Demonstra-
tion Dairy Farm at Pyongtaek, administered by the Korea Dairy Beef Company
(KDBC), provides practical training in dairy production and management.
Aricultural Credit Institutions
2.14      The banking system has two main components:  commercial banks and
special financing institutions. Commercial banks make no loans to farmers
while only a minimal amount of credit goes to agro-industry and commodity
dealers.
2.15      There are seven special financial institutions, one of which, the
National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF), functions as an in-
strument for national policies in agriculture and is hence intimately asso-
ciated with the Government in its operations. NACF is both a bank, receiving
deposits and making loans, and a general cooperative institution that engages
in a wide range of other activities, including marketing, purchase and sup-
ply, mutual insurance and management guidance. Its credit operations, some
subsidized, are the largest individual item, followed by supply and marketing
activities. NACF would participate in the project by providing loans to
KDBC out of its own resources, with interest payments subsidized by the
Government; it would not have responsibility for administrative or technical
aspects of the project. NACF is the executing agency of the (first) Agri-
cultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO) and is also participating in the
Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project (Loan 994-KO) as a con-
duit for loans to farmers. A loan for a second agricultural credit project
to be administered by NACF is to be appraised shortly.
2.16      AFDC:  The Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC),
a Government invested agency under MAF was established by special legislation



-5-
in 1967 to foster agro-industry development in Korea through financing equity
investment and providing long, medium and short-term loans; encouraging
domestic and foreign investments; providing technical and managerial assistance
and training to borrowers, and developing domestic and export markets. It
has a qualified staff to provide management and technical guidance to its
affiliated companies. ADFC's investment policy is to sell its shares in
an enterprise as soon as the project becomes viable and capable of independent
management. AFDC is the borrower and executing agency for the Integrated
Agricultural Products Processing Project (994-K0).
2.17      KDBC:  KDBC was established by AFDC in February 1969 as one of its
22 diversified agro-industry investment projects. The objective of this en-
terprise parallels the national policy of fostering investments in the live-
stock industry to increase the protein food supply while also providing the
rural people with wider opportunities to increase their cash income. In
February 1971, KDBC became the executing agency for IDA Credit 234-K0 of
US$7.0 million to implement the Integrated Dairy/Beef Development Project for
the establishment of small and medium-sized dairy farms by providing long-term
loans, the construction and operation of 2 dairy products processing plants
and the provision of maragement and technical services related to these
activities (see Annex 3).
D. Dairy Products Sub-Sector
2.18      Milk processing operations for pasteurized bottled milk began in
Korea in 1962, for condensed milk in 1963, and powdered milk in 1965. Prior
to 1965, Korea imported not less than 90% of all its milk product needs and
received 96% of these milk imports as grants. In 1965 Government banned
commercial imports and in 1972 all gifts imports were suspended. The embargo
on the importation of virtually all milk products is part of a Government
program to strengthen the dairy processing sub-sector and raise rural
incomes of those farmers owning unproductive land. A detailed description
of the Korean dairy products sub-sector is contained in Annex 2.
2.19      Government policy in the processing sub-sector is to encourage
all cooperatives, and private and semi-private companies to satisfy the
national demand for dairy products. There are 35 small cooperatives, 4
large cooperatives, 5 large commercial plants, and 4 small commercial plants.
The total installed processing capacity in Korea is about 179,000 mt per
year and total production is about 175,000 mt. By 1985 total production to
meet demand projections and utilize raw milk supplies is likely to be about.
859,000 mt. A rapid expansion in investment in dairy processing is required
to meet this level of production unless CGvernment is to recommence importa-
tion of dairy products. It is expected that the production of fluid milk
will absorb 50% of available raw milk supplies in 1981, baby milk powder



- 6 -
about 19%, frozen milk products about 10%, milk powders about 19% and 2% will
be used in the manufacture of coffee creamers, yoghurts, cheese, etc. Dairy
processing will require substantial expansion of milk drying facilities
to p-vide for increases in demand for baby milk powder and other powders
used to provide milk solids to food processing indust-ies. A steady expan-
sion of fluid milk plants is required, but by far tL.- largest gap to be
filled in milk processing will be the provision of frozen milk products.
The outstanding need for the period 1976 into the 1980's will be for more
facilities in the the Yeongnam-Busan area which has a population of 4 mnil-
lion and has been undersupplied.in milk and milk products. National plans
for provision of these facilities rely heavily on the projected phase II
expansion of KDBC.
III. THE PROJECT
A. KDBC's Dairy Development Program
The Ongoing Program
3.01      KDBC's ongoing program was financed by IDA Credit 234-Ko which
became effective in August 1971 with KDBC as the executing agency (para 2.17).
Its objective is to increase the national milk supply through a credit pro-
gram for dairy development on unutilized upland. The Project included the
establishment of small dairy farms, erection of two processing facilities,
and the provision of adequate technical services for farmers. Stimulus for
the KDBC program arose from the rapid increase in the cost of imported feeds
and the difficulty of obtaining reliable overseas supplies. This meant that
if Korea was to have an adequate foundation for its dairy industry it would
need to reduce its reliance on imported stockfeeds and substitute these with
locally grown pasture and forage crops.
3.02      To date about 580 farmers have participated in the Project and
farm loans of about US$4.5 million equivalent have been approved. About
4,900 cattle have been purchased and two dairy plants have been constructed
and are in operation. Problems with pasture establishment, artificial in-
semination and calf rearing together with the rising cost of all farm inputs
have decreased forecast benefits on farms. Also, while during project prep-
aration and appraisal it had been envisaged that project farms would be stocked
with imported heifer calves, project imnplementation showed that participating
farmers had a strong preference for the importation of older, pregnant heifers.
The farmers argued that having made the investment in pasture and on-farm
dairy facilities it was essential for them to obtain cattle close to lacta-
tion in order to generate an earlier cash income and protect their financial
position. The Project accommodated this preference, but, the increased costs
of importing older pregnant heifers meant that about 70% of project farmers



-7-
were allocated only five cows per farm instead of the minimum placement of
seven envisaged at appraisal. Since the great majority of these farmers
had made investments in buildings, plant and machinery, and to a lesser
extent, in pasture establishment to accommodate the anticipated minimum seven
cows, their cost overheads per cow were greater than anticipated and their
farm incomes were considerably reduced on what bad been anticipated at the
time of project appraisal. In recognition of this situation, Government
has agreed to increase the size of the dairy farms to be established under
Project II to comprise an initial unit of eight milking cows with a minimum
of eight hectares of grazing land. Smaller dairy farms established under
Project I would be eligible for expansion under Project II (para 3.08).
3.03      Delays in the construction of the processing facilities and
earlier than planned start of milk flow from farms due to the importation
of pregnant heifers forced KDBC temporarily to assume the collection costs
of the raw milk, sell it to other processors at no profit and at times pay
farmers a price less than that paid by other milk processing companies.
Since mid 1974 processing plants financed under the Project have been in
full operation and have allowed KDBC to assume its role as marketing and
processing agency as envisioned under the Project. It is not possible at
this stage to estimate long-term debts since the first installments on
long-term loans did not fall due to any appreciable extent until June 1975.
Technical services for the processing component of the Project have been
excellent and satisfactory for on-farm development. Loan funds, except for
dairy processing, had been fully committed at July 1975.
Project Formulation
3.04      The experience gained in Project I by Government, KDBC and farmers
provided the basis for the selection of a package of activities and invest-
ments for inclusion in Project II. The Project has demonstrated that dairy
farms can be established on idle land hitherto unrecognized by most Koreans
as being suitable for dairying. It contributed important data about costs
of milk production utilizing pasture and fodder crops under Korean conditions,
and has pointed the way to further efficiencies in dairy farm operations in
Korea, particularly the reduction in the amount of concentrates needed to
sustain production. The consumption of imported feed concentrates on Project
I farms is estimated to have declined 50% over comparable dairy units based
on the traditional non-pasture system of production, which is dependent upon
large inputs of concentrates and purchased hay and rice straw. The produc-
tion system on Project I farms once they are fully developed and stocked
should ensure i gher net incomes than those from traditional non-pasture
units.
3.05      Based on the results of Project I, two types of farms would be
developed, new dairy farms and farms in Project I requiring assistance to
reach a viable scale of operation. The investments for new farm develop-
ment would provide for the establishment of eight ha of pasture/forage crops,
essential farm buildings and machinery, and eight imported pregnant heifers



- 8 -
per farm. Project I farms with less than eight cows which have a minimum
of seven ha of potential pasture/forage land would receive additional
imported pregnant heifers to raise the cow herd to eight and sufficient
finance to improve the carrying capacity of the farm to accommodate the
additional heifers.
3.06      As under Project I the sites selected for new dairy development
would be in areas of unused, low rolling to hilly land. Soils are poor,
shallow and support low scrub interpersed with small trees. Farms are
privately owned and average 9 ha comprised of 7.5 ha of unused rough upland
and about 1 .3 ha of irrigated and non-irrigated lowland. Farm incomes
average 640,000 won, this being obtained from cropping on the lowlands
and from off-farm employment.
B. Project Objectives
3.07      The Project has been designed to meet the Government objectives
for accelerated growth of the dairy industry. It would continue growth in
the subsector supported by the Credit for Project I and by utilizing
improved technology would lead to greater efficiency in dairy production in
Korea. Specifically the Project would enhance Government efforts to raise
rural incomes and to develop mixed farming. The Project would assist
K,orean agriculture to meet the rapidly growing demand for milk and meat
products and it would enable farmers to diversify production. and utilize
their labor more fully. The provision of a package of services to farmers
through an integrated program of farmer training and technical services,
farm development, coordinated development of milk processing facilities,
and improvement in marketing and sales will assure the farmer of access to
up-to-date pasture technology, a market for his milk supply and a more re-
liable source of income.
C. Project Description
3.08      The Second Integrated Dairy Development Project would finance the
following activities:
(a) development of about 450 new family-size dairy farms
based on an initial unit of 8 heifers (US$11.2 million
including contingencies);
(b) further development of about 400 dairy farms in Project
I (Credit 234-KO) to assure their viability in the
long-term (see para 3.02 and Annex 3) (US$2.7 million
including contingencies);



- 9 -
(c)  (i) the expansion of existing processing plants which
produce baby milk-powder, sterilized fluid milk, and
wholemilk powders; (ii) the diversification of present
plants to include production of butterfat, evaporated
milk, and powdered coffee creamer; (iii) the establishment
of one milk collection center in the Central region and
one in the Honam region; (iv) the provision of approximately
50 small milk cooling units; and, (v) the construction of
a frozen milk products plant at Yeongnam (US$8.8 million
including contingencies);
(d) expansion of technical services for development of both
farm and milk processing facilities (US$1.8 million
including contingencies).
D. The Project Areas
3.09      Project I developed two regions - Central and Honam (Map I).  The
Central region is roughly 50-150 km south of Seoul and is served by the Korea
Dairy Beef Company's (KDBC) Central milk processing plant at Jinui. The
Honam region is 300-400 km south of Seoul and is served by the second of
KDBC's milk processing plants at Gwangju. In Project I the Central region
serviced by KDBC included 10 counties in two provinces (Gyeong Gi and Chung
Nam). Under Project II, one more county, Dangjin (Chung Nam Province) would
be added to the Central region. The Honam region would be expanded from 12
to 16 counties. The new counties would be Boseong, Gwangyang and Yeocheon
(Jeon Nam province) and Gochang (Jeon Bug province). 
3.10      A new region Yeongnam, would be included in Project II.  It lies
in the south-east of Korea, 50 to 150 km north east of Busan. The Project
area would include five counties, namely: Yeongil, Yeongeheon, Weolseong,
Gyongju, Gyeongsan in the Gyeong Bug province and two counties, Ulsan and
Ulju, in the Gyeong Nam province.
E. Detailed Features
3.11      The Project would provide financing for 400 existing farms (230 in
the Central region and 170 in the Honam region), and 450 new farms (50 in the
Central region, 85 in the Honam region and 315 in the Yeongnam region). The
number of imported heifers required to top-up existing Project I farms to
8 cows is 1200; 610 would be distributed to the Central region and 590 to the
Honam region.
3.12      Pasture and area development would include clearing of brush,
plowing, fertilizing, sowing grasses and legumes, fencing, and improvement
of the access road to the farm. It is anticipated that each farm has at



- 10 -
least 1.5 hectares suitable for fodder cropping. Based on available experi-
ence, the most promising pasture species for the project areas are orchard
grass, tall fescue, perennial ryegrass, italian ryegrass and white clover.
Pastures would be fertilized annually with 200 kg of urea, 500 kg of fused
phosphate (20% P205) and 250 kg of potash (60% K20) per hectare. This heavy
application of fertilizer reflects low fertility and rapid fixation of
phosphates in the acid soils. The expected pasture life is about five years.
Maize, ryecorn and forage sorghums grow well and would be used for silage and
forage production for winter feeding.
3.13      Animals would be housed in conventional stall barns and, in
general, would be hand milked. The owner and one cowhand would manage up
to 10 milking cows, including all routine farming operations. Equipment
to be provided for each farm in the Project would include a small silage
cutter, one third share in a petrol motor for the cutter, an electric fence,
milk cans and a milk cooler. A well, hand pump, piping and a trough would
be provided to ensure an adequate water supply. The cowhand would be pro-
vided with simple housing in the cowbarn and a haybarn would be erected with
sufficient storage space for fertilizers and machinery. Simple silage pits
would be built to store winter feed.
3.14      Farmers are expected to follow existing practices of cattle housing
and stall feed their animals in the first few years of the Project. With
improved knowledge of pasture management obtained from upgraded field exten-
sion services and increased herd size, farmers would increasingly be expected
to graze animals to alleviate the increasing cost of labor required to feed
animals. When weather prevents grazing, cattle would be fed chopped fodder
supplemented with concentrate feeds, and in winter, silage made from forage
crops, hay and concentrate feed. Under the Project, the farm plan envisages
concentrate feeding to be about 1,250 and 700 kg annually per head of milk
cow and growing stock, respectively; a drastic decrease of about 150% on usual
levels in Korea. Carrying capacity would increase to 1.75 animal units per
hectare with about 30% of total feed provided by concentrates. Natality is
calculated at 80%, mortality at 10% for calves and 3% for animals over one
year of age. Milk production would average 3.0 mt per year for the first
lactation and increase to 4.0 mt at maturity. These parameters are based on
the experience of Project I farms. Total investment cost for the establish-
ment of each new farm (excluding contingencies) would be 17.9 million won
(US$16,400), of which 3.8 million won (US$8,000) would be for the purchase
of livestock.
3.15      Development of existing Project I farms would provide for the
purchase of additional pregnant heifers to raise the cow herd to 8, purchase
of additional milk cans and cooler, renovation of existing pasture and
establishment of additional pasture. These farms have adequate land, suf-
ficient machinery and water supply and space in their cowbarns to accommodate
the additional heifers and their progeny. Approximately 70% of Project I
farms require additional investment to make them financially viable. 95% of
the 396 farms in this group have on average 5 milking cows and require on



- 11 -
average assistance to purchase 3 additional heifers, renovate 4 ha of existing
pasture, establish 2 ha of new pasture and develop 0.5 ha of additional forage
cropland. Total incremental investment costs, excluding contingencies, for
a 5 cow farm would be 2.2 million won (US$4,600). Of this amount about 1.5
million won (US$3,000) would be for the purchase of livestock.
Importation of Heifers
3.16      Participating dairy farms would be stocked with high-grade Friesian
heifers, aged about 18 months, weighing around 300 kg, and certified
pregnant. During the implementation of Project I, KDBC gained considerable
experience in the purchase, importation and distribution of heifers. It is
expected that the procedures they developed would be used for Project II.
In total about 4,800 pregnant heifers would be imported and distributed
to project farmers.
Milk Processing Plants
3.17      The Project would provide processing facilities to meet increasing
milk flow on existing and new farms until 1987 (Annex 4 Table 2). The
principal component would be a frozen milk products plant in the Yeongnam
region with a basic capacity of 5,000 kg per hour for raw milk. This plant
would enable KDBC to expand dairy processing and its farm technical services
to new farm areas.
3.18      Investments in the Honam plant at Gwangju would include the
extension of milk sterilizing equipment to raise capacity to a daily through-
put of 60 mt of raw milk. This throughput would mean an increase of 50%
in the production of high quality fluid milk for national sales. At the
Central plant near Seoul, the Project would provide for the expansion of
the evaporator unit and the purchase of an additional ultra high temperature
heater which would enable KDBC to double milk drying capacity to about 80 mt
per day. Provision has been made for additional equipment to utilize the
drying capacity at the Central plant to produce a powdered coffee creamer,
similar to CREAP which is marketed in Japan. A condensed milk evaporator
would also be installed at the Central plant to provide for maximum production
of baby milk powder and at the same time provide concentrated milk solids
for the Yeongnam plant.
3.19      A milk separator/standardizer has been included in equipment
purchases for each plant.   These separators of 5,000 liter per hour capa-
city would claTcify milk to provide additional butterfat (0.5% per liter)
and thereby reduce butterfat costs at the Yeongnam plant and in the product-
ion of powdered coffee creamer at the Central plant. Two electric generators,
500 KVA, have been included for the Central and Yeongnam plants to alleviate
production shut-downs during power shortages. Additionally, recently enacted
Korean law will require the provision of waste treatment equipment at the
Central plant by 1976.



- 12 -
3,20      Two 10 mt/day milk collection centers would be provided, one in
the Central region, the other in the Honam region. These centers would
improve flexibility in milk reception and would considerably reduce milk
collection costs. Fifty small cooling stations for groups of farmers are
also included in the Project to reduce milk spoilage and improve the
efficiency of milk collection. One 10 mt tanker would be provided for each
of the processing plants.
Technical Services and Training
3.21      The Project would provide technical support for:
(a)  farm development planning;
(b)  farm management and veterinary advisory services;
(c)  farmer training;
(d)  processing plant location studies, plant design and
preparation of bid documents, and evaluation of bids
for plant construction;
(e)  product marketing studies;
(f)  KDBC's financial management;
(g)  applied research.
3.22      This support would either be an extension of, or supplementary to,
the existing technical support offered under Project I (see Annex 6). The
number of farm extension officers would be increased from 9, at present, to
21 by the third year of the Project and the number of technical specialists
from 5 to 9. There would be one field extension officer for every 50 new
farms. Four internationally recruited technical specialists would be engaged
to provide technical support and training in dairy farm management, animal
health and nutrition, pasture management and forage crop production, and
milk processing. Annex 6, Table 1 summarizes the man-years of technical
support and training staff which would be provided under the Project. Cost
recovery and compensation for the public service functions of KDBC in ad-
ministrating and financing on-farm development and technical services would
be met by the spread on funds from IBRD and Government on-lent to farmers.
3.23      New dairy farmers would be trained for four weeks at the Korea-New
Zealand Dairy Demonstration Farm at Pyongtaek before they receive cattle.
Farmers on existing five cow farms would be required to attend a 10 day train-
ing course before they would be eligible to receive additional cattle. A
one week refresher course would be offered farmers one year after receiving
their cattle and regular one day seminars would be held in each of the three
milk producing areas for the first four years of the Project.



- 13 -
3.24      The diversification of KDBC production as proposed, and in parti-
cular commencement of the production of frozen milk products, necessitates
considerable strengthening of the KDBC marketing department. A technical
service agreement on a fee paying basis would be sought for the technical
service required for start-up of the Yeongnam plant.
3.25      Pasture and forage crop trials initiated during Project I, part-
icularly those investigating optimum fertilizer application rates, would be
continued and extended into the Yeongnam region. Nutritional studies would
be undertaken to determine profitable mixes of pasture, conserved forage
and concentrate feeds. Calf rearing trials, including an evaluation of
milk replacers would be initiated. The overall objective of Project research
work would be to provide improved management recommendations for Project
farmers. To this end the Project would also provide a farm records analyst
to determine the most profitable and efficient means of smallholder dairy
production.
3.26      Motor cycles would be purchased for use by the field extension
officers. To facilitate mobility of the technical specialists and advisors,
four jeeps would be purchased and distributed one to each of the processing
plants and one to KDBC headquarters in Seoul.
3.27      Environmental Impact.  The Project would have no adverse effect
upon the environment. Under Government law, land clearing for pasture
establishment is restricted to slopes less than 30% which have a density of
forest less than 30%. Pasture cover and controlled grazing would help to
prevent eerosion in these areas. The provision of waste water treatment
facilities in each of the processing plants would ensure-that the levels of
effluents would be well below the standards set by the Bank.
F. Project Costs
3.28      Total project cost over a seven year period is estimated to be
US$24.5 million of which foreign exchange costs would be US$15.0 million
(61%). The total cost estimated includes a 10% physical contingency on all
items except technical services and farm working capital. All base cost
estimates are in April 1975 prices. Expected price increases were derived
by applying to project costs the following rates of annual price escalation:
equipment, machinery and vehicles - 1975, 20%; 1976, 10%; 1977 and thereafter
8%; civil works - 1975, 18%; 1976, 14%; 1977 and thereafter, 12%. Details of
Project costs appear in Annex 8. Project costs are based on the assumed
buying rate of 480 won to the dollar, rath'er than the official parity rate of
485. The one percent difference, amounting to an increase in local costs of
US$100,000, would be accommodated in the allowance for price contingencies.
A summary of project costs follows:



- 14 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Z of    Exchange
Total   Cost as
Won (million)            (US$ mil1lon)   Project % of
Category    Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Cost    Total
Dairy Farm
Development
Pasture
Establishment  648       -        648   1.35      -      1.35    8         -
Crops           189       24     213    .39       .05      .44    3       11
Buildings,
Plant, Water  950       172   1,122   1.98       .36    2.34   13        15
Livestock       239   2,152   2,391    .50    4.48    4.98   28           90
Pasture
Renovation      47       20      67    .10       .04      .14    1       29
Incremental
Farm Work-
ing Capital    48       192     240    .10       .40     .50    3       80
Sub-Total   2,121   2,560   4,681   4.42    5.33    9.75   56            55
Dairy Processing
Facilities
Yeongnam
Plant          512   1,257   1,769   1.07    2.62    3.69   21           71
Honam Plant      56       95     151    .11       .20      .31    2       65
Jinui Plant    104       280     384    .22       .58      .80    4       73
Start-up
Materials      303      496     799    .63    1.03    1.66   10          62
Sub-Total      975   2,128   3,103   2.03    4.43    6.46   37          69
Technical
Services         96      528     624    .20    1.10    1.30    7          85
TOTAL BASE
COSTS         3,192   5,216   8,408   6.65   10.86   17.51  100           62
Physical Con-
tingency /a      274      400     674    .57       .83    1.40   -         59
Price Con-
tingency /b   1,078   1,584   2,662   2.24    3.31    5.55   -             60
TOTAL PROJECT
COST          4,544   7,200  11,744   9.46   15.00   24.46   -            61
/a   Physical contingency on dairy farm development and dairy processing
costs only, excluding incremental farm working capital and start-up
materials.
lb   Details of price contingency are contained in Annex 8.  No price con-
tingency on incremental farm working capital or plant start-up materials.



- 15 -
G. Proposed Financing
3.29      The proposed IBRD loan of US$15.0 million would finance about 61%
of total project costs and would cover all foreign exchange costs. The IBRD
loan would be lent to Government at 8.5% for 25 years, including 7 years of
grace. Total project cost of 11,744 million Won (US$24.5 million) would
be financed as shown in Table 2. Further details of the sources of funding
and terms for project lending are given in Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2.
Table 2: PROPOSED FINANCING
(million won)
Financed by
Government
MAF      NACF                          Total
Category             Farmers  Subsidy  Loan   KDBC       IBRD         Amount
------------(Amount)(---------------- M)
Dairy Farm Development/a  1,254       362   1,500    -       3,560   53    6,676
Dairy Processing Facil-
ities /b                    -        -      -      1,297   2,910   69    4,207
Management and Technical
Services                    -        -      -        131     730   85       861
Total (million won)        1,254      362   1,500   1,428   7,200   61   11,744
Total (US$ million)         2.61       .75    3.12   2.97   15.00   61    24.46
Percent of Total             11         3      13      12       61     -      100
/a   Includes farm working capital.
/b   Includes start-up materials for dairy processing plants.
3.30      Government contributions (US$3.9 million) would finance 16% of total
project costs. The contributions would include an NACF loan (US$3.1 million)
which would finance local costs of working capital for farmers, pasture
establishment and farm building, water supply and plant costs, and all local
cost contingencies for dairy farm development. The NACF loan would be
provided to KDBC with an interest rate of 9% with 9 years repayment in-
cluding 4 years of grace. In addition, there would be a direct subsidy
(US$0.8 million) from MAF to farmers for pasture establishment. To minimize
the financial burden on KDBC, Government has agreed to assume the foreign
exchange risk for IBRD funds used for farm development and technical services
(Annex 8).
3.31      The farmers' contributions (US$2.6 million) would finance 27%
of total dairy development costs, excluding contingencies. New and existing



- 16 -
farmers would expect to receive loans from KDBC for 70 to 75% of their on-
farm investments. KDBC would use NACF funds for farm loans amounting to
30,500 won per ha for pasture establishment and about 711,000 won per new
farm for buildings, plant, and water investments, excluding price and
physical contingencies.
3.32      The required capital by KDBC to implement the Project is about
TJS$3 million. About 70% of this amount would be used to finance the local
cost component of investments in dairy processing; 20% would finance local
costs of working capital for processing plants, and 10% for cost incurred in
mailagement and technical services.  Increases to share capital of KDBC would
be 120 million won by January 1976, 450 million won by November 1976, 200
million won by April 1977, 300 million won by February 1978, and 357 million
won by January 1979. Increased capitalization would raise total share
capital of KDBC to US$4.2 million (2,027 million won). Details of required
capitalization of KDBC by private individuals and AFDC ownership are contained
in Annex 8, para. 16. The additional funds would be provided either through
a share capital increase or through bridging loans to KDBC from NACF or
other appropriate Government agencies, or a combination of both.
H. Procurement
3.33      International competitive bidding pursuant to Bank Guidelines would
be applied for the purchase of machinery, equipment and start-up materials
for dairy processing facilities (US$3.9 million). Vehicles to serve the
dairy processing facilities (US$285,000) and civil works contracts for the
construction of the dairy processing facilities (US$1.62 million) would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be
eligible to bid. This arrangement is considered appropriate since the
Korean construction industry is experienced, efficient and competitive
and several local plants, each with a foreign affiliate, ensure a competitive
and adequate supply of vehicles. The site, plans, specifications, procure-
ment and construction contracts for the dairy processing units would be
subject to the approval of the Dairy Processing Specialist.
3.34      For the purchase of cattle (US$4.48 million), to ensure adequate
competition KDBC would submit to the Bank for its agreement a list of at
least three countries from which suitable disease free livestock would be im-
ported. After agreement on the list, quotations would be sought from sup-
pliers in these countries.
3.35      Other goods required for dairy farm development such as farm
machinery, milk cans, fencing, fertilizers, seeds and farm structures would
be obtained through existing commercial channels. International competitive
bidding would not be appropriate since individual contracts would be small
and numerous and the size and combination of farm investments would vary



- 17 -
considerably. There are no discriminatory import quotas or controls. Imports
of cattle, farm machinery, and dairy equipment are exempt from import duties.
3.36      Internationally recruited technical specialists would be selected
from short lists approved by the Bank. Vehicles and motorcycles (US$32,000)
required for the technical services component of the Project would be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
I. Disbursements
3.37      IBRD disbursements are expected to extend for six years from
1976. Disbursement scheduling of IBRD funds is shown in Annex 8, Tables 2
and 3. IBRD would disburse against appropriate documentation of expenditures
under the Project:
(a) Imported Cattle, 100% of c.i.f. expenditures;
(b)  Loans for Farm Development (excluding cattle) 25% of
-the funds disbursed by KDBC to participating farmers;
(c) Dairy Processing Facilities, 100% of foreign expenditures
for imported machinery, equipment, plant start-up
materials, milk-tankers and trucks, or 100% of local
expenditures based on ex-factory cost; 44% of civil works
expenditures;
(d) Technical Services, 85% of total expenditures (net of tax)
for management and consultant services to include emoluments,
international travel, housing and research allowances;
85% of total expenditures for jeeps and motorcycles.
J. Accounts and Audit
3.38      The accounting and auditing system of KDBC developed under Project
I would be maintained and strengthened through technical assistance provided
under the Project. Qualified public accountants would develop a suitable
accrual accounting system in order that accurate statements of the cost of
sales per processing plant would be available on a timely basis. The system
would also be expanded to include the new Yeongnam region. The proposed
addition of a farm records analyst would improve accounts containing on-farm
information and farmers' loan status. KDBC would continue to submit quarterly
and annual reports to IBRD within 30 days of the close of the respective
periods.



- 18 -
IV.  MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
A. The Korea Dairy Beef Company
4.01      KDBC, executing agency for Project I, would continue as project
authority for this Project. KDBC is a quasi government institution with 40%
of its share capital owned by Goyernment (AFDC), and 60% held by private
shareholders. The Company has a vertically integrated set of responsibilities
which extend from on-farm development to milk processing.
4.02      KDBC is organized in seven principal departments:  (i) Admini-
stration, (ii) Finance, (iii) Technical Services, (iv) Dairy Processing,
(v) Marketing, (vi) Planning, and (vii) Business. KDBC's staff now totals
315 of which 122 are employed in the Central plant, 77 in the Honam plant,
101 in the Seoul office and 15 on the Korea-New Zealand Farm. In the short
time that KDBC has been in operation, it has demonstrated strength in tech-
nical and quality control aspects of processing, in engineering planning
and execution, and in on-farm development. The Company performs quality anti-
biotic milk testing and now pays farmers on the basis of the fat content
of milk. Production tests are being capably handled for pilot scale pro-
duction of a powdered coffee creamer. In some areas, KDBC's management will
need strengthening. The Company has experienced difficulties in procurement
administration. Sales and processing activities demand greater integration
by KDBC staff, and a more aggressive marketing structure needs to be estab-
lished. A product marketing specialist familiar with Korean milk products
would be hired by KDBC.
4.03      As the executing agency for the Project, KDBC would be responsible
for (a) planning, disbursement and supervision of farm development loans;
(b) planning, financing, construction and operation of milk processing
facilities, (c) pasture, fodder crop and animal nutrition applied research,
(d) product marketing and market research, (e) local training of KDBC staff
and participating farmers and the provision of a farm extension program,
(f) organizing contracts to reduce where possible farm input costs, and
(g) organizing the importation of essential project inputs. An organization
chart of KDBC and additional details of its management are given in Annex 3.
B. Lending Operations
4.04      Project lending terms and criteria are detailed in Annex 8,
para 6. Farmers receiving loans for buildings, plant and livestock from KDBC
would pay 12% p.a. on both those funds originating from IBRD and NACF. KDBC
loans for pasture establishment would be lent to farmers at 9%. KDBC would



- 19 -
make all loans repayable in 9 years, including a 3 year grace period during
which only interest would be paid. These terms and conditions would conform
to those applied to Government loans for similar purposes. Farm loans would
be made by KDBC to a maximum of 75% of on-farm investment costs. A portion
of total farm loans may be provided in kind. Principal security for a loan
would be a grassland mortgage. Recovery of loans to farmers would be assured
in assignments by borrowers of their milk sales to KDBC milk plants in an
amount sufficient to cover the payment terms of their contracts. Borrowers
would also take an insurance policy under the national livestock insurance
program administered by KDBC and where necessary, pledge such policy as
security against a loan.
V. PROJECT PRODUCTION MARKETING AND PRODUCT PRICES
Product Prices
5.01      Government has sought to encourage investment in the dairy industry
by milk processors. Its basic policy has been to maintain profitability by
guaranteeing basic prices, by promoting efficient marketing systems, and by
allowing higher prices for quality goods. At present, the Government estab-
lishes minimum prices for milk at the farm gate, guides maximum ex-factory
prices for fluid milk in bottles, and controls the ex-factory price of baby
milk powder. Prices for other dairy products e.g. flavored milks, prepack
and tetrapack fluid milk, as set by producers, must be justified to the MAF
in consultation with the EPB. Wiole milk, other milk powders and ice-cream,
prices are uncontrolled.
5.02      The most important price setting mechanism is that for milk at
the farm gate. Government sets guide prices for processed products on the
basis of the processors' margin. The margin between the official minimum
farm gate price (companies have paid more than the official minimum since
mid-1974) and the ex-factory price has steadily increased since 1967. Ex-
pressed as a percentage of the ex-factory price this margin has gone from
28% in 1967 to 40% in June 1974. The margin is presently about 34% since
the major processors decided in March 1975, to pay 120 won per liter of raw
milk. A review of the terms of trade of farmers since 1969 indicates that
a margin between 33 to 36% would assure the profitable operation of both farms
and processing plants. Examination of the trend in farm-gate prices and
margins (Annex 2, Table 4) from 1969 to 1975 shows that Government has
sought to maintain the equilibrium margin within this range.
5.03      Justification for financial benefits of the proposed Project is
found, in part, by Government action to protect the milk price and the
processor's position. When difficulties were encountered, such as the
temporary surplus of milk products in 1971-72 Government took remedial action
by purchasing commercial fluid milk and arranging its sale for school dis-
tribution at heavily subsidized prices. Government's forward planning for
KDBC has been predicated on the basis of the anticipated market requirements



- 20 -
for milk products and the availability of suitable pasture land for dairy
development. The Project has been designed with the Government's policies
in view and is fully consistent with them.
Marketing
5.04      Marketing analyses for the Project suggest that KDBC should have
no problem in selling its milk products. Projections by MAF of the national
supply of milk products indicate a rate of growth of supply of approximately
18% per annum after 1976. Market indications suggest a national demand
growth rate of 20%. KDBC's share of national milk production at full develop-
ment would increase from 5% to about 10% with the expansion under the Project.
5.05      Production from the proposed Yeongnam plant would supply the most
rapid demand growth area for milk products in Korea, the Yeongnam - Busan
region, where milk product sales are projected to increase by 30% a year.
At present frozen milk products are trucked to Busan City (population 2
million) from Seoul 350 km away. The estimated demand for ice-cream in this
region is estimated to be 4 kg per head per annum by 1980. The KDBC plant
would supply about half of this demand. Any excess demand for inputs during
the summer peak would be met by trucking milk solids as concentrate or powder
from the Central and Honam plants.
5.06      The expansion of drying facilities at the Central plant would im-
prove KDBC sales of baby milk powder and other milk powders. Demand for baby
milk powder is expected to continue to expand at a minimum of 12% per annum.
KDBC has sufficient flexibility in its plant operations to offset any short
term slack in demand for baby milk powder by directing raw milk supplies into
the production of whole milk powder for which demand has increased about 30%
per annum.
5.07      KDBC's program of diversification into new product lines includes
the production of a powdered coffee creamer for which there is an excellent
and growing market. The forecast of demand increase to 1979 based on
imported varieties is about 20% per annum and a minimum of 12% thereafter.
Projected levels of production by KDBC for powdered coffee creamer and other
products in the proposed Project are safely within demand limits.
5.08      Demand for fluid milk is expected to increase at a minimum of 15%
per annum. The share of KDBC in the national supply of fluid milks, bottled
and packed, would represent about 6%. No provision for investments in an
additional fluid milk plant has been made in the Project for the Central
region as proposed in the FAO/IBRD Preparation Report.  The volume of pro-
cessed milk available for sale in the Seoul area does not justify the expense
of KDBC, in effect, competing with its own tetrapack sterile milk produced
in Honam and then sold in Seoul.



- 21 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Results
6.01      Net income for new dairy farmers would be 2.8 million won at full
development. The addition of three cows to the existing five cow farms would
raise farm income from 0.7 million won to 2.8 million won at full development
with the additional investments under Project II. Cash flow analysis indicates
that new farmers would have positive net cash flows from year 3 of the Project,
while existing farmers would reach positive net cash flow in year 1 of the
Project.
6.02      The financial results of Project farms and the parameters used for
income and costs in farm budgets are detailed in Annex 4. New farms have
an estimated rate of return of 20%. The analysis for existing farms is based
on the marginal costs and benefits that accrue from the Project. Existing
farms have an estimated rate of return of 28%, appreciably higher than for
new farms since existing farms can support the increase in herd of three
cows without further investments in buildings, water supply and farm plant.
6.03      A margin of flexibility in the terms of trade for Project II
farmers would be 5 to 10%. Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of
return for new farmers is increased to 25% when the milk price is increased
by 10%, and decreases to 15% when the milk price decreases by 10%. The rate
of return for existing farms is increased to 34% and decreased to 23% when
the same sensitivity is applied.
Milk Processing Plants
6.04      The proposed Project at full capacity would supply 5,470 mt of
sterilized milk at Honam with a market value in constant prices of US$2.8
million. The Central plant would produce an additional 1834 mt of baby
powder milk, marketable at about US$5.1 million and 466 mt of powdered
coffee creamer marketable at about US$1.9 million. The Yeongnam plant would
produce 11,000 mt of ice cream with a value of US$17.7 million (Annex 5,
Tables 2, 3 and 4).
6.05      The ratio of net earnings to total sales at the Honam plant is
comparable to dairy processing activities elsewhere in Korea, about 7%. This
ratio for the Central plant, given the high profitability from coffee creamer
production, is 15%. The proposed Yeongnam plant has the high net earnings
to total sales ratio of 19%. Government does not control the price of
frozen milk products and the current margin between the farm gate price of
fluid milk and the ex-factory price of these products is seven to eight
times as high as the difference between the farm gate price of fluid milk and
the price of bottled milk in Korea. The Yeongnam plant will account for
about 60% of all KDBC sales and about 70% of all profits at full capacity



- 22 -
on all plants. The proposed Project including production from both Project
I and Project II would generate annual operating surpluses at full develop-
ment of about US$15 million in current prices before taxes and financial
charges (Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3).
6.06      The financial viability of the proposed expansion of the two exist-
ing plants, Honam and Central, was determined from increased production and
net incomes derived from the use of the incremental raw milk from farms in
Project II. Forecast production at the Yeongnam plant was based on the
milk flows from Project farms in the Yeongnam area and an inflow of 20% per
annum of whole milk powder produced at the Central Plant. Parameters for
production inputs, operating costs, and overheads are detailed in Annex 5.
6.07      The rates of return on the proposed processing components are
excellent. Central plant expansion would have a rate of return of 37%; the
Honam expansion, 31%; and the Yeongnam plant, 37%.  Fluctuations on plant
income should not exceed 10% at the maximum. Sensitivity analysis on this
basis shows that the rate of return for the Central plant is increased to
54% when the sales price is increased 10% and decreased to 12% when the
sales price is decreased 10%. Similarly, the rate of return of the Yeongnam
plant increases to 53% and decreases to 16%. Production at Honam is the most
sensitive to price changes given its relatively high proportion of the price
of milk in the finished product. The Honam expansion increases to 78% when
the sales price is increased by 10% and is negative when sales are decreased
10%.
6.08      The need for KDBC's diversification in highly profitable products
such as powdered coffee creamer and frozen milk items is underscored by the
Company's present financial condition. The net loss for 1974, the fourth
year since Project I commenced, is 61.4 million won and the Company's loss
carried forward is now 84.3 million won. Financial projections for Project
I show that KDBC should have positive net cash balances from 1976, but KDBC
is currently financing deficits through costly short-term borrowings and is
operating with insufficient working capital. Project II would significantly
augment KDBC's profitability. Projections of net profit for KDBC with
Project II expansion and diversification would be about 1.0 billion won by
1978 (current prices), 2.8 billion won by 1982, and 3.2 billion won at full
development in 1987 (Annex 3, Table 5).
6.09      Government has sought to assist KDBC in its financial situation
bv proposing to bear the foreign exchange risk for on-farm development funds
in Project II. KDBC is currently required in Project I to bear the risk on
all IDA funds from Government. Prior to December 1974, KDBC's long-term
liabilities payable to IDA had increased by US$386,000 as a result of two won
devaluations and one dollar devaluation.  The recent won devaluation by 17.v%
has increased KDBC's long-term liabilities by an additional US$1.6 million.
In calculating further foreign exchange risk at an annual devaluation rate
of 3% per annum for the life of the loan, the estimated additional payment
by KDBC is about US$2.5 million. Total long-term liabilities, including



- 23 -
actual risks incurred, would be US$4.5 million for Project I. The high
profitability from KDBC diversification and expansion to be carried out under
this project would generate a surplus for KDBC and resolve debt-servicing
problems.
B. Economic Analysis
Increased Production
6.10      At full development Project farms would produce about 22,600 mt
of raw milk per year which would add to the national production of processed
milk products by 5,470 mt of sterilized milk, 1,834 mt of baby milk powder,
466 mt of powdered coffee creamer and 11,100 mt of frozen milk products. In
addition, national beef production would be increased by 900 mt per year. The
Project would directly benefit 850 farm households and would develop about
4,600 ha. of unutilized land and 2,000 ha. of partially developed land.
Employment and Social Benefits
6.11      Four hundred and fifty new farm households with a total population
of about 2,250, and 400 existing households comprising 2,000 people would
benefit from the Project. In addition, on-farm employment at full develop-
ment would be created for 800-1000 permanent workers and about 3,500 casual
laborers. The capital cost per full time job created including those
employed in farm households would be about US$3,000. This compares with
US$8,800 per industrial job created according to recent experience in Korea.
The proposed development of the milk processing facilities and the addition-
al staff required in KDBC to implement the Project would provide an additional
155 jobs. Although the available data on nutrition and consumption patterns
in Korea are not comprehensive, given the per capita income and the very
substantial increase of high protein milk products that will result from this
project, it is likely to prove to be nutritionally beneficial.
6.12      The Project would support Government in its efforts to place in-
creasing emphasis on agricultural projects which enable farmers to diversi-
fy their production and utilize their labor more fully. The Project would
afford farmers the opportunity of utilizing their labor year round, of
spreading their risk between crop production and milk production, of building
a revenue earning asset from previously unproductive upland, and of sharing
improvements to public utilities such as roads, rural electrification, educa-
tional and medical facilities, stimulated by development of this type.
6.13      The Project reflects both the technology of dairy development
and the overall strategy for rural development proposed by Government.
Rural development in Korea is being pursued mainly through structural
changes in the rural economy which the Government intends to bring about by
rapid expansion of decentralized industrial employment and by consolidation



- 24 -
of agricultural resources into viable production units capable of maintain-
ing or improving the relative income position of farmers in the industri-
alized economy.  To this end, the Project would complement other projects
which the Bank Group is financing or proposes to finance in 1976.
Economic Rate of Return
6.14      The economic rate of return was obtained after the adjustment of
the main benefits and costs valued in terms of border prices or the border
prices of their tradeable components, by the elimination of taxes and
subsidies (Annex 7). The Project, after all adjustments, has an estimated
economic rate of return of 15%'.  This is somewhat lower than the financial
rate of return reflecting the Government's desire to develop the dairy sub-
sector albeit at some economic cost, since the c.i.f. prices of importable
milk products are currently lower than the cost of production of such
products locally.
6.15      The Project is expected to generate total foreign exchange savings
of about US$27 million. Summary calculations of foreign exchange savings
are contained in Annex 7, Table 2.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Assurances
7.01      During negotiations assurances were received from Government
and KDBC that:
(a)  proceeds of the IBRD loan would be on-lent directly
to KDBC (para 3.29);
(b)  NACF would provide funds to KDBC, promptly as needed,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD
(para 3.30);
(c)  after the initial increase in share capital, additional
paid-in shares would be 450 million won by December 1976,
200 million won by April 1977, 300 million won by February
1978 and 357 million won by January 1979, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to IBRD (para 3.32). In the event
that the necessary share capital is not forthcoming on
the scheduled dates, NACF or other appropriate government
agency will provide a bridging loan to meet the shortfall;
(d)  the terms and coniditions of employment of the four
technical advisors would be determined in agreement
with IBRD (para 3.22);



- 25 -
(e) the Dairy Husbandry specialist and the Dairy
Processing specialist would be employed by KDBC
within 2 months of effectiveness of the loan
(para 3.22);
(f) exotic dairy beef heifers would be procured on the
basis of bids from at least three countries where
animals suitable for the Project are available
(para 3.34);
(g) a Product Marketing specialist familiar with the
Korean milk products market would be hired by KDBC
not later than February 28, 1976 (para 4.02); and
(h) during the disbursement period of the loan, KDBC would
make appointments to the positions of President,
Executive Vice President, Managing Director, and heads
of the administrative and operational departments, in
consultation with IBRD (para 4.03).
B. Effectiveness
7.02      In addition to the above assurances, the following requirements are
condition of effectiveness:
(a) KDBC's share capital be increased by 120 million won
(para 3.32); and
(b)  the transfer of title to the Korea - New Zealand Demons-
tration farm from AFDC - KDBC (para 3.23).






ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and the Livestock Industry
A. The Rural Sector
1.        About 45%', of Korea's population of 33 million live in rural areas.
Of these 14.6 million people, 5.7 million are considered to be economically
active; employment is close to 100%. Rapid growth of employment opportuni-
ties in the non-agricultural sectors caused many rural people to move to
urban areas during the 1960's. This migration continued into the early
1970's. Projections made by the Government in 1972 indicated that total farm
population could be expected to decline 24% and employment in agriculture,
forestry and fishery, 8% from 1972 to 1981.1/ However, farm people classi--
fied as economically active and employed increased 6% from 1971-1972 and 5%
from 1972 to 1973. Workers classified as employed in agriculture, forestry
and fishery (including those in non-farm households) increased 9% in 1972 and
5% in 1973. Korean officials attribute this recent growth of employment in
agriculture to increased prosperity in rural areas, but it probably was due
mainly to an unusually large number of farm people joining the labor force
in the last few years. The slow-down in industrial growth anticipated for
1975 may further retard the growth of non-farm job opportunities for rural
people and cause a further increase in farm employment before the long-term
downward trend in farm employment is resumed.
2.        There are 2.5 million farm households in Korea with an average size
of 1 ha. The percentage distribution of farm households and cropland area by
size of farm in 1973 is given in Table 1.
1/   An Outline of Long-Range Projections for 1972-81, MAF, September 20
1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Table 1: Percentage Distribution of Farm Households
and Cropnd d Area by Size of Farm, 1973
Percent of Total            Average per Farm
Farm                    Cropland    Household Income
Size of Farm         Households   Cropland         (ha)           (000 won)
(ha)
o   - 0.5               35.9         11.4           .27            284
0.5 - 1.0               31.5         26.9           .74            400
1.0 - 1.5               18.1         25.3          1.21            543
1.5 - 2.0                8.2         16.1          1.70            686
over  2.0                6.3         20.3          2.80            972
Total or Average        100.0        100.0           .86            481
/a   Net farm income plus income from other sources.
Source: Yearbook of Agriculture and Forestry Statistics, 1974, MAF.
3.        Roughly 40% of rural households have less than 0.5 ha of cropland
and are heavily dependent upon income from work on other farms and non-farm
jobs. About half of the population in the lowest 40% income category in
Korea live in these households. The other half are low family-income families
in urban areas. Farmers to be developed under the Project are in the top
1.0% of farms in terms of the national distribution of farm size, but since
much of the farm area is not cultivable average net farm incomes, per house-
hold are currently in the order of 300,000 won per household, i.e. about
half of the national average.
4.        A comparison of average incomes of rural and urban households is
given in Table 2. Parity of income for rural people with people in urban
areas has been a major policy goal of the Government in recent years. Con-
sequently it is significant that rural household incomes averaged almost as
high as those of salary and wage-earner households in urban areas in 1974.
The major factors causing rural incomes to rise have been the introduction
of Government price programs to raise the prices of farm products relative
to prices paid by farmers for inputs and consumption items. Since rural
households are larger and have more workers per household than urban house-
holds however, per worker incomes still average 46% lower in rural than in
urban areas (see Table 2).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 2: Average Incomes of Rural and Urban Households
(000 won)
1971   1972   1973   1974 /a
Rural Households
A.  Hfousehold Income                 356    429    481    639
B.   Per Capita Income                  61     75      84    1-18
C.   Per Worker Income                122    144    164    218
Salary and Wage Earner
Households (all cities)
D.   Household                        452    517    550    647
E.   Per Capita Income                  86     98    105    123
F.   Per Worker Income                340    386    405    476
Ratios
A/D                                     79     83      87     99
B/E                                     71     77      80     96
C/F                                    36      37     41      46
/a   Preliminary estimates.
Source: Economic Planning Board.
5.        Since the Farm Land Reform Law of 1950 almost all the 2.3 million
ha of cultivated land is owner operated. Some 58% or 1.4 million of rural
households also hold title claim to about 73% of all remaining land, offi-
cially classified as forest. This land was exempt from the Farm Land Reform
Law and is subject to traditional restraints incorporated within the Korean
concept of property rights. These permit the remaining 42% or 1.1 million
farm households with entirely cultivated land, to carry user rights and treat
as resources (in terms of forage, fuel and composting materials) all forest
areas, be they State or privately owned. Although these traditional rights
can be a barrier to effective utilization of upland areas, experience gained
in the Integrated Dairy/Beef Development Project (Credit 234-KO) suggests
that few difficulties would be encountered in the proposed Project. This is
particularly true now that the Grassland Law enacted in January 1969 has
gained acceptance by private land holders.
6.        In recent years, particularly since the initiation of the SaeMaeul
(New Community) Movement in late 1971, Government has made a major effort to
improve the quality of rural life. General village improvements have included
resurfacing and widening of village lanes, clearing and rearrangement of
village streams; installation of public laundry and bathing facilities,



ANNEX 1
Page 4
erection of village halls and post offices; installation of rural electri-
fication systems; establishment of telecommunication facilities and cons-
truction of small health clinics. In order to raise off-farm cash incomes
and to reasonably utilize idle rural labor, the Movement has sponsored the
establishment of labor intensive industries in small cities throughout the
country. With the expansion planned for the Movement in the next few years,
it should not be long before environmental improvements and the provision
of economic infrastructure narrow the socio-economic disparities between
rural and urban areas.
B. Recent Trends in Agricultural Production
7.        During 1963-72, real GNP rose at an average annual rate of about
10%.  The driving force behind this growth has been the expansion of indus-
trial exports which in 1972 rose to 26% surpassing that of agriculture for
the first time. Agricultural production has expanded by a creditable 3.5%
per annum during 1962-72 and in 1974 accounted for 25.5% GNP. Most of this
increase has resulted from increased yields, double cropping and diversifi-
cation of production. Trends in the share of the agricultural sector in GNP
are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3:  Value Added in the Agricultural Secto r
Year      Current Market Prices           Constant 1970 Prices
Billion Won  % in GNP           Billion Won  % in GNP
1965        295.50        36.7               574.69       37.6
1969         562.78       27.0               689.76       28.8
1970         678.16       26.1               678.16       26.2
1971        848.35        27.0               682.65       24.5
1972      1,024.27        26.5              688.02        22.2
1973      1,137.12        23.3               710.28       20.0
1974      1,615.82        25.5               745.00       19.5
/a   Includes Agriculture and Forestry; excludes Fishery.
Source:   IBRD, Economic Report, Volume II, February 20, 1974 and
Bank of Korea, April, 1975.
8.        The composition and annual percentage increases in GNP of the
a-r4'ultural sector is shown in Table 4.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Table 4: Composition and Annual Percentage Increases
in GNP of the Agricultural Sector (1970 prices)
Composition             % Increase per Year
in 1974 (%)    1962-72   1973   1974    1975 Plan
Crops                      72.0          2.5    2.7    5.1          2.2
Livestock                   6.8          4.4    6.4    7.5           5.0
Other (sericulture, etc.) 2.4             -       -      -
Agriculture, Total       81.2          2.6    2.7    5.3          2.4
Forestry                    5.6          9.1      -     4.2         6.1
Fishery                    13.2         12.1   31.3   18.6         15.0
Grand Total             100.0          3.5    5.5    6.9          4.0
Source:   Economic Planning Board, January 1975.
9.        Agricultural exports have followed a trend similar to that for the
decline in the ratio of agricultural production to GNP. Although the exports
of agricultural livestock and forestry products increased by almost 230%
between 1966 and 1974, their contribution to total exports declined from 23%
to 3% in the same period. The contribution of the sub-sectors to total ex-
ports is shown in Table 5.
Table 5: Exports of Agricultural and Forestry Products
1966             1970           1972             1974
US$   % in        US$  % in      US$  % in        US$  % in
Item            '000   exports   '000  exports '000  exports  '000  exports
Agriculture  23,175       9.1   62,446    6.2  27,637   1.5  26,576    0.5
Livestock      1,175      0.7    1,843    0.2  10,189   0.6  16,941    0.3
Forestry      33,490    13.1  109,830   10.9 194,693  10.8  89,561         1,9
Sub-Total    58,417    22.9  174,119   17.3 232,519  12.9 133,078    2.8
Total
Exports      260,000   100    923,000  100 1,729,000 100 4,671,000  100
(cif)
Sources: IBRD, Economic Report, Volume II, February 20, 1974
Answers to Questions Submitted by IBRD Mission January 1975;
prepared by MAF.
10.       Foreign exchange earnings from agricultural, fishery and forestry
exports have not kept pace with growing imports of grains and livestock
products. Consequently Korea's trade deficit in the agricultural sector



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(including fishery) increased from US$115 million in 1971 to US$333 million
in 1974 and will total about US$360 million in 1975 due to larger grain
imports (Table 6).
Table 6: Trade in Agricultural and Fishery Products
(US$ million)
Plan
1971      1972       1973    1974   1975
Exports
Agricultural Products
Silk                  48        52         73      59      73
Canned Food            5         9         21      23      27
Meat                   1         8          7      17      21
Fruit                  1         2          2       3       4
Vegetables             -         -          1       3       3
Others                 8         7         29      28      16
Sub-Total           63        78        133     133    144
Fishery Products
Exports Total        178       231        393     423    481
Imports                                                           /a
Grains               273       287        462     640    743-
Livestock             22        49         87     116    10 O-
Total              293       336        549     756    843
Trade Balance
Total for Products
Listed              -115      -105        -166   -333    -362
/a   Mission estimates
Source:   MAF.
C. Terms of Trade on Farms
11.       Government price policies in recent years have been concerned with
raising prices )f farm products and maintaining relatively low prices for
purchased inputs in order to improve farm incomes and encourage increased
production. The terms of trade for farmers (as measured by the ratio of
prices received for all farm products to prices paid by farmers for all goods
and services) increased 15% from 1970 to 1973 and also were favorable in
1974 (Table 7).



ANI'TEX '
Page 7
Table 7:  Index Numbers of Prices Paid and Received byFarmers
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974/
Prices Received by Farmers
All Farm Products                 100       121       148      164       209
Rice                              100       126       159      168       228
Barley and Wheat                  100       136       177      184       215
Vegetables                        100        96        99      102       147
Fruit                             100       117       127      144       188
Livestock and Poultry Products 100          121       143      167       196
Prices Paid by Farmers
All Goods and Services            100       114       131      143       188
Fertilizer                        100       100       101      113       14j
Terms of Trade, All Items               100       106       113      115       111
/a   First nine months of 1974.
source: Monthly Review, NACF, November 1974.
D. Livestock Production
12.        In 1974 value added in livestock farming was less than 10% of the
total for agriculture (Table 4). Until recently cattle were raised primarily
for draft work. Demand for livestock products, however, has risen consider-
ably in recent years with the rapid increase in per capita income and value
added is rising sharply (Table 4). Consumption of meat, milk and eggs has
more than tripled in the last 10 years. In the 1960s, most of the increase
in demand was met by imported products, but since 1970 Government has sought
to raise domestic production through legislation and the provision of subsidies
and low interest loans.
13.       There are 1.8 million cattle in Korea, all are native Korean
cattle, except for 8,000 head of specialized beef breeds and 65,000 dairy
cattle. From 1970-74 the number of draft cattle increased 40% and beef
production about 55%. In the same period the number of lairy cattle in-
creased 280% and milk production about 300% (Table 8).



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Table 8: Number of Livestock and Output of Livestock Products
1965     1968      1970     1972      1973     1974
Number of Livestock            (Estimates)
(In thousands)
Draft cattle             1,314    1,193    1,271    1,333    1,417    1,775
Dairy cows                   7        14       23       36        41        65
Beef cattle                  1         3        3         4.8      6.3       8
Pigs                     1,382    1,396    1,121    1,248    1,334         NA
Chicken                 11,893   25,968   23,477   24,537   29,073         NA
Output of Livestock Products
Meat (thousand MT)         99.7    136.4    167.4    184.7    209.0         NA
Beef                    (27.3)   (35.8)   (37.3)   (40.2)   (46.5)  (58.2)
Pork                    (55.9)   (61.8)   (82.5)   (90.2)  (103.3)       NA
Poultry                 (14.6)   (35.8)   (45.2)   (54  )   (59.2)       NA
Other                   ( 1.9)   ( 3.0)   ( 2.4)   ( - )   (  - )  ( - )
Milk (thousand MT)         10.6      23.4     51.9      79.9    104.1      164
Eggs (million)            856.0  1,585.0  2,456.0  2,790.0  3,079.0         NA
NA: Not Available
Source:  IBRD, Economic Report Volume II, February 20, 1974 and MAF estimates.
14.       In 1972, the average herd size per owner family for native cattle
was 1.2 head and for dairy cattle 9.2 head, Over one million of Korea's 2.5
million farm families keep cattle for draft power, and cattle for commercial
purposes are raised on a little over 1% of all farm households. Most of the
specialized beef breeds, mainly imported Aberdeen Angus, Brahman, Santa Ger-
trudis and Hereford cattle, are raised on large commercial ranches, parti-
cularly on Cheju Island.
15.       Beef Cattle.  Native Korean cattle are hardy animals but have a
slow growth rate and a low fertility level of approximately 50%. When
crossed with imported Friesians or imported beef breeds, the first genera-
tion's growth rate is increased by about 30%. Much of the low fertility
and poor growth rates of native cattle can be attributed to inadequate
feeding and poor herd management. Native cattle are usually confined to a
small yard with rudimentary barn until required for draft work, and fed
periodically through the day small quantities of concentrates and grass cut
from surrounding hillsides. Mating occurs indiscriminately and even with
adequate nutrition, cows have a poor milk supply and calves reach only 100 kg
by about 6 months of age; (reasonable growch rates would be in the vicinity
of 150 kg). Feed conversion ratios are believed to average 15-18 kg of total
digestible nutrients for each kg of liveweight gain.
16.       Offtake rates are 18-19% annually in spite of the low calving
percentage.  Of the total annual slaughter of about 350,000 head probably



ANNEX 1
Page 9
325,000 are native cattle made up of 170,000 cull cows; 128,000 males less
than 4 years; and 27,000 cull working males. The average carcass weight
of 145 kg tends to confirm the belief that a relatively high percentage of
males are slaughtered before reaching mature weight.
17.       In recent years, specialized fattening farms have appeared,
particularly in peri--urban areas. Two to three year old cattle are bought
on the open market artd sold after an intensive feeding period of approximately
100 days. Invariably the animals are stalled and handfed rice straw and
native grass or hay, supplemented with about 2 kg of concentrates per day.
On a few farms, corn silage or silage and hay from improved pastures is fed.
The number of animals fed in a lot varies from three to eight, and three or
four lots are bought and sold annually. This type of enterprise has recently
become common in dairy producing areas where young male calves are readily
available for fattening.
18.       Dairy Cattle.  Growth in the national dairy herd to the present
level of 65,000 has been rapid, following large scale importation since
1961 of selected Holstein heifers and cows. From 1965 to 1973 inclusive,
16,575 dairy cattle were imported, and 5,300 were imported from January to
November 1974. Over half the herd is located in the province of Gyeong Gi
close to the Seoul city market; other important dairy provinces are Chung
Bntg and Chung Nam, each with about 10% of the herd and readily accessible to
Seoul.
19.       In 1973 about 5,500 farm families owned dairy cattle with
an average herd size per family of 9.5 head. It is estimated that about 40%
of farms have less than five cows. Average production per lactation in 1973
was 3,400 kg of milk, or 2,400 kg for all cows. The Holstein appears well
adapted to Korean conditions and provides satisfactory milk yields under the
present dairy management system. In addition to the above milk production,
the dairy herd contributes about 15,000 head annually for beef production.
The male progeny from the dairy herd are now fully accepted by beef producers
and command a premium price for fattening.
20.       Almost without exception, commercial dairy units have developed
as non-integrated specialized operations. While this has tended to restrict
dairying to larger land owners and those who have reasonable financial
resources, it has allowed production of quality milk for processing in modern
processing plants. The system of dairy production evolved during the last
decade, depends basically on improved pasture supplemented with forage crops
and purchased concentrates. Dependence to date on imported cattle together
with the need for considerable investments in buildings and pasture has led
to capital intensive units, investing US$2,000-2,500 per cow.
21.       On most farms, cattle are confined to holding yards and handfed cut
grass, silage, rice straw and concentrates intermittently through the day.
Cows are kept indoors for about 6 months during the winter and again for
several hours each day during hot summer months. On an average there are
about 1.6 head on each ha of pasture which provides about 60% of roughage



ANNEX 1
Page 10
requirements. About 25% of roughage is provided by forage crops, 10% by
native grasses and the balance by rice straw. On an average, over 20% of total
feed by weight is purchased concentrate, costing about $180 per lactating cow
annually. On a national average per farm cost of concentrates totals nearly
50% of gross farm income.
22.       Cows are milked twice daily; on 95% of farms, by hand.  Milk is
cooled in cans in water troughs and collected usually once per day in milk
processing company or cooperative trucks. Payment is usually made fortnightly
following deduction of farm input costs by the cooperative or milk company.
Problems with milk quality have occurred mainly during the hot and wet periods
from late June to early September. Many milk cooperatives and processing
companies have introduced premium and penalty milk payments schemes to over-
come the problem and stimulate the use of small 'in-can' milk coolers. Good
farm and animal hygiene will also alleviate the problem. On many farms,
however, summer milk cooling is very difficult due to an inadequate water
supply. The most effective method for these farms seems to be grouping of
milk supplies to a quantity sufficient to chill economically and a fast
transport system to move the milk from farm to first cooling. Small trucks
working on contract for a short period(s) daily would be suitable for this.
23.       Animal health problems are similar to those occuring in any dairy
industry. Additional problems have occurred with piroplasmosis during the
first summer of imported cattle and mastitis and abortions with cattle
shipped long distances. Piroplasmosis has caused few deaths, but body
condition and milk production have been severely affected and recovery has
taken six weeks or more. Veterinary services are mostly provided by private
veterinarians practicing in each county, but most have little experience
with dairy cattle. Most milk processing companies subsidize veterinary
services.
24.       Reproduction, as in any developing dairy industry is a problem.
Artificial insemination is conducted nationally by the National Artificial
Insemination Service under the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation.
IIAF operates five National Animal Breeding Stations which provide semen from
selected bulls, but NACF retains responsibility for the provision of services
to farmers through its 171 distribution centers. This overlapping in respon-
sibility has led to inefficiency and excessive wastage and has been the focus
of studies under FAO auspices in mid-1974. Comprehensive plans for improve-
ment of A.I. services have yet to be forged by Government. In the meantime,
Holstein semen  s collected from bulls which have never been subjected to
progeny tests. Low conception rates are attributed in many instances to
poor hygiene, and poor techniques of semen collection and insemination.
Farmers continue to find it difficult to detect cows on heat in time for
insemination. The effect of these problems is that each cow is
inseminated on average twice before conception occurs, at a cost to the
farmer of about 3,000 won/cow.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
25.       Unit cost of labor at around US$40 per month per man is low by
international standards, but more people are employed and total labor cost
becoi.s very high.  The average labor cost per kg of milk produced in Korea
is more than double the cost in USA or New Zealand, al.hough unit costs of
labor in those countries is about 10 times greater than in Korea. Nearly
all dairy operations are manual, about one workman being required per six
cows for milking, feeding, feed procurement and management. If the present
cost/price trends continue, labor costs will need to be reduced or many farms
will not be viable. The main opportunity for reducing labor costs is in
grazing cattle instead of cutting and chopping pastures and in improving
management efficiency and animal production. There is limited scope for farm
mechanization on many of the smaller farms.
26.       Pasture and Forage Crops.  Establishment of pastures using high
yielding imported grass and clover species is a relatively new practice in
Korea. Suitable methods of establishment and management, the mix and quan-
tity of fertilizers to be applied and suitable seed mixtures are still being
researched. Consequently there are no standard recommendations for pasture
development on dairy farms. Trials to date indicate that simple mixtures of
only one or two grasses with clover are better yielding than multiple mixed
pastures. Yields of about 30 mt of dry matter with a 65% utilization rate
are being achieved on some-of the better dairy farms. Perennial ryegrass
suffers severely from summer heat and greater emphasis is now being given
to Orchard Grass (Dactylus glomerata) and Tall Fescue. Ladino white clover
(Trifolium repens) flourishes successfully under a wide range of conditions,
producing good yields and persisting as a closely mown pasture plant. Clover
dominance of pasture has frequently occurred after the first summer to such an
extent that farmers, fearing cattle bloat, are reluctant to sow clover in
new pastures. This dominance however is typical in pasture establishment in
many countries and should be expected to decline once soil nitrogen and fer-
tility increases. Nitrogen fertilizer (urea) has been heavily used in Korea
with good result but the cost has increased rapidly, thus making clover
establishment more financially attractive to farmers. Pasture life is
usually 4 to 5 years.
27.       Forage cropping systems have been evolved for summer and winter
feeding with good results on many farms. The most common crops are maize
for silage and ryecorn for winter feed. Costs of production are high due
to large labor inputs and heavy application of fertilizers. Yields for
ryecorn have been about 20 mt of green matter/ha/year, and for corn about
35 mt of green matter/ha/year. Corn is chopped and stored in simple earth
pits lined with plastic. Feeding-out is laborious and wastage, excessive.
Many farms also make pasture hay from improved and mature grasses.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
E. Supporting Services to Livestock Production
28.       Although the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) is in
charge of the overall supervision of livestock production, there are a
number of institutions responsible for the provision of services. These
institutions are Government agencies, semi-private organizations and special
farms established with foreign support. There has been some overlapping in
the provision of services to livestock production; nevertheless the exten-
sion and quality of some strategic services need considerable strengthening
to achieve the goals of livestock development.
The Livestock Production Bureau
29.       All aspects of forage, concentrate feed and pasture production,
livestock production and health and livestock product and by-product
utilization fall within the area of responsibility of the Livestock Bureau
of MAF.  This Bureau is divided into four operational divisions:  Livestock
Production, Livestock Feed, Veterinary, and Dairying. There is a small
and competent central staff of about 50 professionals and about 280 veteri-
narians paid by the central government working in the field.  Much of the
responsibility for animal health control and extension is borne by techni-
cians employed by provincial and country governments.
Research, Demonstration and Extension
30.       The Office of Rural Development of MAF is primarily responsible for
research and guidance services to all the agricultural sector. Livestock
research is of relatively minor importance; financial and staff allocations
of ORD are mainly directed to crop production. However, some stations,
generally located in the Alpine area and in Cheju Island, have concentrated
their activities on livestock development. There is still need for further
research of practical problems affecting cattle production in Korea; the
tendency at present is to emphasize problems of academic interest.
31.       A considerable amount of agricultural research in Korea is
supported by foreign capital, though only a small percentage of this is
allocated to livestock research. UNDP/FAO projects have financed studies on
pastures, forage crops, rangeland development and beef cattle fattening at
the village level. Three demonstration farms have been established with
foreign financial and technical support. The Korea-German Farm at Anyang
was established in 1969 to demonstrate intensive forage feeding techniques.
The Korea-New Zealand Dairy Demonstration Farm at Pyongtaek and the Korea-
Australia Sheep Demonstration Farm at Unbong have provided applied research
and extension facilities in intensive pasture production. Some research
and extension activities are also carried out by National Animal Breeding
Stations and the Korea Dairy Beef Company under IDA Credit 234-KO, and with
bilateral assistance from the Danish and New Zealand Governments.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Livestock Health and Quarantine
32.      MNA  through the Livestock Production Bureau, Veterinary Division
and the ORD is responsible for livestock health services. At the central
government level, the Veterinary Division provides for control of meat and
milk hygiene, disease control programs, veterinary pharmacy and veterinary
administration. At field level there are 11 diagnostic laboratories main-
tained by ORD. Treatment of animals in rural areas is the responsibility of
some 326 private veterinary practitioners who perform routine tests and diag-
noses at central government expense. There are about 700 veterinarians prac-
ticing in cural areas and about the same number in urban areas.
33.       MAF operates National Animal Quarantine Stations at Busan (capa-
city 900 head) and near Kimpo Airport in Seoul (300 head). Government plans
to build a new station in Inchon with a capacity of 300 to handle imports by
sea. Most animals are kept in quarantine on arrival in Korea for a period
of 15 days.
F. Government Policies and Programs for Livestock Development
34.       The present Livestock Development Plan covers the period 1973-1981
and has its main goals: (a) increased meat and milk production to meet
domestic demand; (b) development of idle upland; (c) increased exports of
livestock products and (d) improved farm incomes. During the next few years,
livestock production is expected to increase about 5% per annum, which on
past performance seems reasonable. Specific measures wh±ch Government has
taken to stimulate growth in livestock production include the provision of
subsidies for pasture establishment, subsidies on fertilizers and food
concentrates, relaxation of foreign exchange controls to permit the import-
ation of cattle, tax concessions and the provision of long term loans at
concessionary rates of interest to farmers.
Pasture Development
35.       There are substantial untapped land resources which could be pro-
fitably developed for cattle production. According to MAF estimates, from
600,000 to 1,000,000 ha of slopeland and forestland is convertible to agri-
cultural use. The amount of this land which would be used for livestock
development will depend on opportunity costs for investment in other agri-
culturAl enterprises, but estimates based on soil quality and gradient range
from 350 to 800,000 ha as being suitable for the establishment of improved
pasture. In addition, TAF considers that there are about 700,000 ha of low-
land irrigated paddy fields which could be double cropped with hay, silage or
green feed.
36.       Following enactment of the Grassland Law in 1969, farmers who wish
to develop pastures on uncleared forestland must apply for a license from
the Bureau of Livestock, MAF. Once authorization has been obtained, farmers



ANNEX 1
Page 14
are eligible to receive subsidies and loans for development on condition
that the work is completed in one year. Procedures for authorization, how-
ever, are detailed and long and are further complicated by the need to obtain
approval of the Office of Forestry in the Ministry of Home Affairs if the land
to be reclassified is leased from the State. The present scheme for subsi-
dies and loans for pasture establishment is based on an MAF estimate of
247,000 won/ha for land clearing, purchase and application of fertilizer and
seeds, improvement of farm access roads, erection of fences and surveying
of the development area. Project estimates are 166,000 won/ha for essentially
the same result. The amounts allocated by Government are:
Subsidy         99,500 won/ha
Loan            65,500 won/ha
The loan carries an interest rate of 9% and the repayment is over 5 years
following 3 years grace. The subsidy is given in cash for land clearing
(60,000 won/ha) and in kind for other inputs. To be eligible for these
concessions, land to be developed must have a slope less than 30% and the
density of forest must be less than 30%. By 1981, Government expects to
have about 340,000 ha sown to improved pastures. This objective appears
optimistic given that there are now only about 60,000 ha of improved pastures.
Supply of Cattle
37.       Government projects that from 1974 to 1981, the national beef herd
will increase 550% and the dairy herd 230%.
Table 9: Livestock: Cattle Projections 1973-1981
(thousand head at year's end)
Korean Cattle        Beef Cattle          Dairy Cattle
Total No.       Total    Imports    Total         Imports
1973           1,390            9         4         46            5
1974           1,453           16         5         60            7
1975           1,533           25         5         75            5
1976           1,622           35         5         89            3
1977           1,705           46        5         105            3
1978           1,789           57         5        124            3
1979           1,856           71         5        145            3
1980           1,919           86         5        171            3
1981           1,999          105         5        200            3
Source:   MAF Livestock Development Plan 1973-1981.
This estimate is based on moderate imports of quality beef and dairy cattle
and improvement in the breeding rate from the present levels of 27% for
Korean cattle and 48% for dairy cattle to 31% and 54% respectively during
the planned period. Again these projections seem optimistic given the pre-
sent inferior AI services and poor animal husbandry practices.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Capital Supply
38.       In addition to financial assistance to farmers for pasture esta-
blishment, Government proposes to supply additional cr-lit to farmers at
concessionary rates by either direct allocation through NACF, or by induce-
ments to private sources by granting tax exemptions and subsidizing interest
rates. Little further has been heard of these credit arrangements since the
Livestock Development Plan came into effect in 1973.
Tax Exemptions
39.       Government has attempted to promote livestock production by exempt-
ing farmers from several taxes. Livestock farmers are exenpt from income
tax from years 1 to 4 of development and are granted a discount of 50% on
income tax over the following 6 years. If a farm is owned by a company,
profits are tax exempt for the first 7 years, and for the following three
years, taxes are discounted 50%. Property taxes are not applied on land
or buildings used for livestock production and if land or buildings are pur-
chased for livestock production the Real Property Acquisition Tax is waived.
40.       The investment planned during 1973-1981 to meet the objectives of
the Livestock Development Plan is 57,400 million won which represents 0.4%
of the total rural investment outlays envisioned for Korea in the same period.
Of the 57,400 million, Government expects to contribute 51,331 million won,
and private sources the remaining 6,069 million won. Existing programs are
to continue on an expanded scale, particular emphasis being given to substi-
tution of imported animal feed grains with pasture and forage crops. About
80,000 ha of pasture improvement are planned and 44,000 beef cattle and
35,000 dairy cattle are to be imported.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Processing and Milk Products Marketing in Korea
A. Dairy Cooperatives and Commercial Companies
1.        The operating dairy companies in Korea divide conventiently into:
(a)  Small cooperatives and private fluid milk plants
(b)  Large cooperative plants
(c) Large commercial plants
(d) Miscellaneous small plants
2.        Co-operative and Private Fluid Milk Plants.  The present number of
small processing facilities in Korea is about 35. Small plants have capa-
cities between 130 and 4,300 mt per annum, most producing about 420 mt per
annum on an 8 hour day basis. Most small plants serve pdpulations less than
200,000.  The livestock cooperatives are usually capitalized with 150,000 to
400,000 won from associated farmers owning in total from 100 to 400 dairy
cows.
3.       IMilk quality of the small plants is fair, but there is evidence of
dilution (specific gravity test). Testing for fat content is usually not
practiced and all plants are deficient in proper laboratory facilities.
Plants consist of weighing scales for milk cans and a chilled wall tank for
cooling and holding. Milk is filtered, homogenized, pasteurized and then
passed to a balance tank over a simple bottle filler. Sanitation and milk
quality, from farmer to factory door, is supervised by the MAF. The Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare arranges for periodic checks at the retail level.
4.        Most small cooperative plants produce for grossly undersupplied
markets.  The estimated demand for fluid milk in an area of the Yeongnam
region in 1974 was for 9,000 bottles per day with a 30% per annum growth
factor. Availability of fluid milk from the small cooperatives in this
region was 3,500 bottles per day. Small cooperatives are benefiting from
credit from the NACF to increase production and some local city governments
now provide loan finance for importation of heifers to cooperative farmers.
Most of these plants will be able to increase milk throughput with modest
expenses and improvement in management.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Large Cooperative Plants
5.        The four largest specialized dairy cooperatives are Seoul, Kyungnam
(Busan), Taegu, and Taejon. The Seoul Co-op is by far the largest milk
enterprise in Korea, representing 57% of the whole industry. It receives
160 mt per day of milk (1974) from about 25,000 cows and has about 200
farmer members. Present facilities for fluid milk (bottles, plastic sachets)
and milk powders (baby, whole, skim) are fully stretched to 20 hours per
day. The Co-op also has an evaporated milk plant and a small butter plant.
With the aid of a German loan and technical assistance, it is presently
constructing a new facility (Seoul II) which will be completed in 1976 and
will double existing capacity. Standards of control and quality are better
than the small cooperatives but considerably below the private companies.
6.        The Kyungnam Company (Busan) has facilities for both bottled and
sachet packed milk, and for milk powders. Kyungnam has usually been able to
pay their suppliers the highest milk price in Korea because of its economies
of scale, but it has not been able to expand operations due to its heavy
debt burden. The present supply area of the Kyungnam Co-op plans to import
cattle in 1975, utilizing NACF finance.
Large Commercial Plants
7.        Namyang. The Namyang Company is situated near Cheonan and began
operations in 1967. The Company specializes in a good quality baby milk
powder which has captured 75% of the Korean market. Other products are
evaporated milk and sterilized milk. Its capacity for the latter is about
36,000 packs per day, about one-quarter of KDBC's present-production. Namyang
is presently operating three shifts and plans to double its drying capacity
in 1976.
8.        Daeyle.  This Company was established in 1973 by private purchase
of a bankrupt company previously financed by a USAID loan. Daeyle has a
technical service agreement with Foremost (U.S.A.) and markets its products
under the Foremost brand name. Ice cream is the primary product, but Daeyle
also produces milk in plastic sachets for the Seoul market. The company is
noted for its aggressive market approach and has expanded its capacity in 1974
to a milk intake of about 25 mt per day.
9.        Hai-Tai Confectionary Company has been making confectionary goods
since 1945. It is now a public company with 4000 shareholders and has sub-
scribed-capital of US$10 million. Technical service for milk processing is
provided by Meadow Gold (USA). Hai-Tai now concentrates on ice cream while
maintaining some fluid milk sales. A new ice cream plant (capacity about
5 mt per hour) is under construction in adeition to its plant near Seoul.
Hai-Tai also has a small ice cream plant on Cheju Island (with a capacity of
1 mt per hour). Hai-Tai will be the largest ice cream producer in Korea if
it sustains its current expansion program.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       KDBC.  Project II would expand dairy processing for KDBC and
continue the Company's technical assistance to farmers. KDBC is the
only Korean dairy processor with full capability in farm management to
develop new farm areas and integrate these with milk processing. KDBC is
regarded as a semi-private company, since there is 40% ownership by Govern-
ment. The present wishes of Government are to provide healthy competition
with quality milk products in an expanding market. KDBC is viewed as an
excellent channel for Bank financing as the Company has the capability with
consolidation, and consequent increases in milk flow, to improve processing
economy in existing areas and deivelop new dairy farming and processing centers.
(a) Honam Plant
KDBC has installed three tetrapak machines with a packing
capacity which about matches the present sterilizing capacity of
4000 liters per hour. In addition to expansion of tetrapack milk
production, an evaporator has been included in the Project to allow
for production of evaporated and condensed milk in bulk containers
for storage and transport to other users or plants. Evaporation
provides an emergency outlet for milk in case of short-term
problems, such as late arrival of packaging materials. To
overcome the collection problems in the Honam area, the
construction of a milk collection center with a tankered
milk delivery system and some small local can accumulation
or cooling depots is proposed.
(b) Central Plant
The facility at Jinui is a technically sophisticated plant
to produce baby milk powder and other powders. Plant
capacity is adequate to the early 1980's. Ongoing deve-
lopments include a plant for hydrolysing casein, which
will replace the use of imported protein hydrolysate, and
will result in a reformulation of the baby powder for
greater economy. With the proposed drying expansion at
the plant of powdered coffee creamer and continued drying
for whole milk powder, milk drying capacity will be doubled
to about 80 mt per day. To achieve this capacity, it will
be necessary to increase the hours of milk reception and
provide milk-chilling in small farm cooling centers and
provide for tanker supply from the proposed collection center.
Miscellaneous Small Plants
11.       Four small private plants operate in Korea, all with small evaporated
milk facilities and in several cases, facilities to process fluid milk. The



ANNEX 2
Page 4
small facilities provide a useful function in receiving surplus milk as it
arises in some localities. The Yakult Company, formed in 1971 near Seoul is
the largest of the small plants and produces a milk based acid beverage
(called Yakult) in blow molded 65 cc plastic bottles. Milk supplies are
obtained from Seoul Co-op up to 10,000 1 per day. Yakult is a Japanese
product enjoying a rapid expansion. In addition to these processors, there
are a number of small ice cream plants, most of which are out of operation
due to the lack of sufficient milk powders. Since these plants were largely
operating on "aid" milk powders, statistics are lacking.
B. National Milk Production and Consumption
12.       Domestic production of raw milk has been increasing rapidly and
fairly steadily since the early 1960's. With the exception of 1967, 1970,
and 1971 when Korea imported substantial amounts of milk powders, production
has increased faster than 30% per annum. Prior to 1972, gift milk powder
imports distorted the non-aid consumption pattern since some 30% of "aid"
powders found their way into bakeries and ice cream plants. Diversion into
other channels apparently led to an oversupply situation in 1972 and conse-
quent suspension of "aid" powder imports. In turn, the embargo has led to a
significant reduction in availability of ice cream and utilization of milk
powders in bakeries.
13.       Table 1 of this annex presents past and projected production figures
for total raw milk equivalent production. These 1974 to 1981 projections
provide for the minimum growth rate in milk availability of 18% per annum
after 1976. Projections are to be achieved by the importation of cows
including those in the proposed Project II, and by the rate of natural
increase in the national herd. Milk availability in 1975, projected in
Table 1 at 179,000 mt, is likely to be exceeded by as much as 12%. A minimum
growth rate of 20% is likely, given previous growth rates and the suppressed
demand for milk powders and the rapid growth in the ice cream market. Even
the most pessimistic market growth rate assessments are well above 10%.
14.       In 1973 fluid milk accounted for 55% of the supply, baby foods for
31%, and ice cream, directly from milk and via whole milk and skim milk pow-
ders, about 3 to 5%. Other powders and evaporated milk made up the balance,
in about equal proportions. Butter (ghie) is not included in these calcula-
tions as it is a by-product of skim milk powder and fat standardized milk
powders under K-rean conditions.  The major change expected in the next few
years is for continuing rapid growth of the ice cream market at the expense
of fluid milk and baby powder milk, which are expected to expand at a mini-
mum of about 15% and 12% respectively. By 1981, fluid milk may comprise 50%
of the supply, baby milk powder about 19%, and ice cream 20% or more, of
which the direct milk use in ice cream will be about 9%O. Evaporated milk
production will probably stagnate and miscellaneous products such as cheese



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and yoghurts, coffee creamers, etc. will approximate 2% of the raw milk.
The estimated consumption pattern of milk products is contained in Table 2
of this annex.
15.       The effect on national processing requirements will be for a steady
expansion of fluid milk plants, including some for a premium product in a
high quality non-returnable container such as tetrapacks, and a rapid expan-
sion of ice cream production. The predominant need will be for a substantial
expansion of milk drying facilities to provide for expected increases in
baby food needs.  Equally important, by 1981 whole milk and other powders
will be needed to balance the seasonal supply-demand variation and provide
extra milk solids necessary in ice cream.
16.       By 1979 when all current and firmly-planned plants will be
operating beyond 16 hours per day capacities more drying plants will be
needed. The development of further drying facilities, preferably in a
new area without a large local milk demand, is of national importance. KDBC
may wish to develop investment plans for drying facilities in the Iri region
in 1978-79 to satisfy some of the milk drying needs. Present drying capacity
in Korea and required levels for drying powders are contained in Table 3 of
this amnex.
C. Regional Market Requirements
17.       Demand growth rate is expected to differ significantly between
regions. The Seoul area with its well-developed market supply, should exper-
ience a demand growth of about 16% per year. Per-head consumption for 1976
is estimated to be 13 kg of raw milk equivalent. The area of highest demand
growth is Yeongnam, a high income, but undersupplied market. The annual
demand increase in this area can be expected to be about 30% to the early
1980's, while estimated milk consumption per head of 7 kg raw milk equivalent
is projected for 1976. Demand development for other regions will be at
intermediate rates. Rural areas will consume about 3.5 kg per head per
annum in raw milk equivalents. A major goal of the proposed project is to
fill a part of the need to develop facilities in the Yeongnam-Busan area.
No significant ice cream plant exists in this region and there is a present
shortage of all milk supplies.
Prices and Government Prices Policy
18.       The cost of raw milk is a major determinant of the processor's
price. The cost of milk and milk products in Korea are higher than in most
other countries. At the factory door, raw milk in Korea is 120 won per liter
or US$0.25 as compared with US$0.18 in England or US$0.19 in Denmark. The
contribution of raw milk prices in the processed milk price has gone from
68% in 1968 to 75% in 1975. Product prices are consequently not low. KDBC
fluid milk retails for US$0.60 per liter whereas the cost to the consumer in
Denmark is US$0.38 and in England US$0.31. Fluid milk in Korea is not likely
to become a significant part of the general diet. Korean milk products are



ANNEX 2
Page 6
consumed largely by middle to high income groups. There is no indication
that high product prices are a constraint to the present high demand or
market size.
19.       Government sets prices for milk at the farm gate and guides maximum
prices for fluid milk in bottles. Prices for ex-factory baby milk powder and
the consumer price for the product are established by Government. Prices for
other dairy products must have the approval of the NIAF in consultation with
EPB. Prices for both flavored milks and prepack and tetrapack fluid milk
come under the same Govermnent review process. No controls on other milk
powders or ice cream are exercised by Government.
20.       The most important price setting mechanism is that for milk at the
farm gate. Under the 1968 Dairy Development Law, an advisory body was esta-
blished to make price recommendations to MAF and EPB. The body comprises
seven Government administration officers including the Vice Minister of
MAF, the Director of the Livestock Bureau, EPB and livestock research offi-
cials; three representatives of milk processors; three farmer representatives;
and three University representatives. Bottled milk processing and selling
margins ar-e based on Seoul Co-op's cost structures. Government allows about
10% higher prices for the products of private processors excluding fluid milk
in bottles and baby powder milk. The 10% margin to private processors com-
pensates for tax advantages to cooperatives. The product price control
system has been maintained continuously, although baby milk powder was uncon-
trolled for a few weeks in 1974 prior to devaluation. Minimum prices for
milk at the farm gate are rarely updated as the price of milk paid to farmers
has usually been increased through competition for milk supplies by processors.
21.       Average selling prices for fluid milk and baby powder milk are
shown in Table 4. In comparison with the price of raw milk, the processor's
margin has tended to increase from about 20% in 1967 to 38% in 1972-73.
Following stricter controls, this margin was reduced as low as 27% in a
period of 3 months in late 1974. The current relationship of the farm price
to guide price for fluid milk shows a margin of 34.5%. Over time, it is clear
that Government has sought a fair degree of stability on prices for equilibrium
between farmers and processors. Government recognizes and assures the pro-
fitability of both parties in this dynamic cost-price relationship. The
margin for processors must be over 32% to assure a reasonable degree of pro-
fitability.
22.       The current equilibrium milk price is close to the actual price
paid to farmers. Based on historic input costs and price margins, the equi-
librium price is about 117 won per liter. Farmers are currently paid 120 won
per liter. The equilibrium margin for processors at this price should be
about 36%. It is likely that Government will maintain the equilibrium between
farmers and processors based on the past margins which average from 34% to
36%. All calculations of benefits for farmers and processors from the proposed
Project were projected at present prices since they approximate an equilibrium
in the primary cost/price relationship for the Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1
Milk Availability and Projected Supply - 1969-1985
(Imports in Raw Milk Equivalent, Selected Years)
Year           Imports              Production    Total Supply
--------------       000 m tons----------------
1960              30.5                    0.5           31.0
1962              92.0                    2.6          94.6
1964              70.3                    7.1          77.4
/a
1966              52.8                   14.6          67.4
1967            171.5                    19.2         190.7
1968            .95.0                    24.4         119.4
1969             117.6                   35.5         153.1
1970              72.2                   51.9          124.1
1971             162.9                   65.3         228.2
1972 /b          72.9                    79.8         152.7
1973 /c          -                      104.1         104.1
1974             -                      139.0         139.0
1975             -                      179.0         179.0
1976             -                      215.0         215.0
1978             -                      299.0         299.0
1980             -                      417.0         417.0
1981             -                      491.0         491.0
1985 /d          -                      859.0         859.0
/a   Commercial imports virtually ceased in 1965.  Prior to this some 95% of
imports were gifts.
/b   Gift imports suspended mid-1972.  These represented about 98% of total
imports 1965-1972.
/c   About 98% of production will be processed from 1973 on (MAF data).
/d   Extrapolated at 15% p.a. 1981-1985.
Source:   MAF data to 1980        IBRD 1980-1985



ANNEX 2
Page l
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2
Estimated Consumption Pattern of Milk Products in Korea - Present and Future
(In raw milk equivalents)
1973       1976      1981       1985
Fluid Milk                      55         55         50        50
Baby Milk Powders               31          24        19        17
Evaporated Milks                 4           2         1         1
Ice Cream (Direct Milk Use)      2           6         9         9
Whole Milk Powders /a            6          11        18        18
Skim Milk Powders  /       .     1           1         1         3
Others                           1           1         2         2
Total Milk Powders /c           38         36         38        38
Total Milk MT      Id        102,000    210,000   481,000   842,000
/a  Availability less losses, self-consumed etc. 0.2%
/b   Some 50 to 70% of this would be used in ice cream - some such powder
could be substituted by sweetened condensed or evaporated milks.
/c   The ratio of skim to wholemilk powders will vary depending on ice cream
formulations used, bakery needs etc.
/d   In terms of plant capacity required; one standard milk powder may be
substantially substituted for another.
Source:   1973 figures ex MAF data
1976 and later: Mission projections



ANNEX 2
Page 9
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3
National Processing Plant Capacity Needed
Drying Capacity - Raw Milk Equivalents
(metric tons)
Seoul I  Seoul II  Namyang   Hai-Tai  KDBC        Pusan   Totals
Per hr.               6         10        2          2     4.5        2       26.5
Current 8-hr.
day basis
Yearly
(Mtission data) 117,520               5,840      5,840   13,140  5,840  48.180
Actual                                                                 /a
16 hr./day      35,040               11,680    11,680   26,280 11,680-v96,360
Proposed
8 hr/day
basis
Additions                29,000       11,680    11,680                     52,560
Totals by
1977-78                                                                         /b
(8 hr.)         (17,520) 29,200      11,680    11,680   13,140  5,840  71,540 -
Max 1977-78                                                                     tc
(16 hr.)         17,520  58,540      23,360    23,360   26,280 11,680 160,600L--
OVERALL DRYING CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS
Year                 Drying Capacity               Drying Capacity
Required (RNE)               Available (RME)
1973                     38,760                        35,040
1976                     75,600                        76,380
1981                    182,780                        89,000
1985                    320,000                       160,600
/a   plants need some 'debottlenecking'  expenditures.
/b   without Seoul I
/c   with Seoul I at 8 hrs/day only - decrepit plant.



KOREA                                             ANNEX 2
Page it)
SECOND INTEGRATED DARIY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Milk Prices
Ex FPctory
Wholesale ex Factory                                       Baby Milk Powder
Raw Milk Price  Price 180 cc bottles                                        450g can
Fprm Gate        ---------------------        Margin   Margin               (won/can)
Year     won/l            won/bottle   won/1             won     Wholesale %          ___ malMaT
1964           27.7           _            _              _        _                    _        _
1965           34                          -              -                   -                   -
1966           37
1967          43           10.71        59.5           16.5      27.7                 252      442
1968           50           12.29       68.3            18.3     26.8                 280      409
1969           50           13.20       73.3            23.3     31.8                 300      407
1970          55           14.91        82.8           27.8      33.6                 308      409
1971           60           16.4o       91.1            31.1     34.1                 328      403
1972           65          18.81       104.5           39.5      37.8                358       415
To June  1973L1         67.5         19.66        109.2          41.7      38.2                360       429
From July 1973           75           20.22       112.3           37.3      33.2                402       437
From Jan. 1974           75           20 2        111.1           36.1      32.5                   -        -
From Mar. 1974           90           23          127.8           37.8      29.6
From June 1974           90           27          150.0           60.0      40.0                440       4903
From Aug. 1974          100           27          150.0           50.0      33.3                 144o     490
From Oct. 1974          110           27          150.0           40.0      26.6                440       490
From Mar. 1975          120           33          183.3           63.3      34.5                540       600
Li   Seoul Co-op raw milk prices prior to 1973; Government minimum thereafter.
/2   Actual average prices prior to 1974 guide prices thereafter as statistics lacking.
Sachet packs selling about 30-35 won/180 ml, tetrapacks about 45 won/180 ml and
50 won/200 ml (KDBC).
/3   KDBC 670 won/500 g (equivalent to 600 won/450 g).
Source:   Price Data - MAF to end 1973. Mission enquiry thereafter.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Korea Dairy Beef Company and Dairy Development Project I
1.        The Korea Dairy Beef Company Limited (KDBC) was established in
February 1969 as a subsidiary of the Agriculture and Fishery Development
Corporation (AFDC) with an authorized share capital of 20 million won. The
purpose of the company as stated in the articles of incorporation is to
undertake dairy farming and the processing of livestock products, and to
provide financial and technical assistance to farmers in order to increase
farmers' incomes.
2.        Fully authorized and paid-in share capital now totals 600 million
won of which AFDC holds about 40% with the balance held by 13 individuals.
Mr. Bok Yong Kim, the President of KDBC, is the largest shareholder holding
with a daughter about 40% of total share capital; other private shareholders
are not related to Mr. Kim.
3.        The Board of Management of KDBC includes the President, Vice
President, Managing Director, 3 Department Directors, 2 nominees from AFDC
and 4 Directors elected at the annual general meeting of shareholders.
The organization of KDBC is shown in Chart I. Present total staff now number
315. Staff and future job requirements are shown in Table 1.
The Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project (Credit 234-KO)
4.        On February 11, 1972, KDBC became the borrower and executing agency
for the IDA-financed Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project. Following
the IDA appraisal, KDBC was formally organized to provide technical services
and credit for farm development, to import and distribute project cattle,
appraise and supervise all sub-loans and purchases, and process milk produced
by project farmers. Specifically, the Project aimed at establishing and
developing 600 small dairy farms (5 to 15 ha), about 100 medium size units
(15 to 30 ha) in the Central and Honam Districts, and two facilities for
processing and marketing milk from Project farms. The total cost of the
project was estimated at US$12.6 million. An IDA credit of US$7 million
was intended to meet all foreign exchange costs and US$1 million of local
currency expenditures.
5.        Credit and inputs provided through the Project were to be accom-
panied by adequate technical planning and supervision of farm development.
In farm development and in the demonstration work carried out on the Korea-
New Zealand Demonstration Farm, emphasis was to be placed on maximizing
use of locally produced pasture for milk production in contrast to the
established system which depended heavily on concentrate feeds of which



ANNEX 3
Page 2
a large and increasing percentage was imported. Development of project
dairy farms was to be associated with the use of subsidies for pasture
establishment in selected areas.
Financing of Dairy Farms
6.        By December 1974 KDBC had selected for financing 582 farms in the
Central district (Gyeong Gi and Chung Nam provinces) and Honam (Jeon Nam
province). The distribution is as follows:
Number of Farms Selected for Financing
District                  1972       1973      1974        Total
Central                    121        116        98          335
Honam                       88         62        97          247
209       178        195         582
The number of cattle imported and distributed to farmers is given by dis-
trict below. At full disbursement a total of 4,940 cattle will have been
distributed to farmers, the last 74 to be imported in July 1975.
Cattle Importation and Distribution
Number Distributed
No. of Cattle       Central        Honam
Year              Imported          District      Distrlct       Total
/a
1972: A-             850             450            40            850
B             850              566            284           850
1973: C            1,024              638          386          1,024
D             750              448           302            750
1974: E           1,425               681          711          19392/b
TOTAL        4,899            2,783         2,083          4,866
/a   A & C:  Imported from U.S.A.
B & D:  Imported from Australia.
E    : Imported from New Zealand.
/b   33 head died or were culled before distribution.



AMNEX 3
Page 3
7.        At December 1974, 22 farms had ceased dairying since commencement
of the project. Most of these farmers stopped dairying for reasons such as
family circumstances, change of residence or off-farm occupation, or on
the advice of KDBC. In a few cases debt foreclosure was resorted to by
court action to recover overdue debts or assets endangered due to poor
husbandry or illegal cattle sales; three of these were settled out of court.
Due to the rising cattle values from 1972 to 1974 most of the debts of the
22 farms were recovered in the sale or transfer of cattle to other (mainly
KDBC) farmers.
Distribution of Farms which ceased Dairying
District        1972      1973        1974      Total
Central                -          5           4         9
Honam                  -          5           8        13
Total                       10          12        22
8.        KDBC disbursed IDA and Government funds for both short and long
term loans for farmers. Both types of loans are advanced at 9%. Short term
loans were repayable within one year and long term loans are repayable in 9
years including 3 years grace during which interest is paid. IDA provided
100% of foreign expenditures for importation of cattle and semen, and 45%
of the dairy farm develpment costs (land clearing, pasture improvement and
erection of fences, etc). Loans for the purchase of cattle advanced upto
80% of the cost of the cattle; the remaining 20% being paid by farmers.
For the purchase of machinery and construction of buildings, a loan of 70%
of the cost was available to farmers. The magnitude of these loans and their
use is summarized as follows:
Size and Use of Farm Loans 1972-1974
Per Farm   Per Ileifer       Percent of Loan for:
Distributed      Farm          Cattle
Develop.     Supply
Thousand Won
(US$)
Central             3,158       377.9             35           65
(7,895)     (945)
Honam               3,205       383               34           66
(8,012)     (957)
All Farms           3,178       380.1             35           65
(7,945)     (950)
9.        Farmers were selected by KDBC field technicians from lists sup-
plied by county officials in localities designated dairy development by



ANNEX 3
Page 4
national and provincial governments. The main criteria for selection were
that the farm be larger than 5 ha, be within reasonable access for
milk collection, have suitable soils and topography for pasture and forage
crop production, and that farmers be able to secure collateral of 160% of
the estimated loan. KDBC field technicians prepared farm development plans
for each farmer selected, and then loan documents based on the amount the
farmer was prepared to invest from his own resources and the amount of
assets and liabilities he had. These loan applications were approved at
KDBC head offfice and were usually supported by two guarantors.  Loans were
granted on the condition that farmers enter an agreement to sell their milk
to KDBC. Most loans were received by real estate mortgage registered with
a public notary. Cattle were required to be insured either with KDBC or
NACF. The same procedures would be followed in Project II.
10.       A summary of KDBC farm records is given below.  Nearly all the
farms in the Farm Management Recording System were established from 1972
to 1973 and refer to the production year January 1 to December 31. There
is considerable scope for improvement in the quantity and quality of in-
formation recorded in the system and in the analysis of this data. The new
Zealand Government under its technical assistance program to Korea agreed
in May 1975 to provide an agricultural economist/farm analyst for two years
to assist KDBC improve their farm recording system and search new ways to
improve the efficiency of ptesent and future farms.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Summary KDBC farm records 1973 and 1974
1973      1974
1.  No. of farms recorded                             181        346
2.  No. of cattle/farm                                 12.8       17.6
3.  No. of milking cows/farm                             6.7       8.2
4.  No. calvings or lactations/farm                      4.7       7.1
5.  Milk/day/all cows (kg)                               9.7      11.2
6.  No. day8 in lactation                             307        307
7.  Gross milk income/farm '000 won                 1,624      3,184
Other gross income/farm '000 won                  245        151
TOTAL-gross income/farm '000                    1,869      3,335
8.  Gross milk income/cow '000 won                    232        331
9.  Av. raw milk price/kg                               74       102
10.  Feed concentrate cost/head '000 won                 60        78
Feed cost as % gross income                        43  -      41
11.  Cattle per labor unit                                5.0       6.7
12.  Fertilizer cost/ha '000 won                         11.2      12.5
13.  Deaths as % of total cattle                          3.1       4.7
14.  Abortions as % of adult females                      2.0       3.0
Integration of Dairy Farm Development with Dairy Processing Facilities
11.       Most of the technical and financial problems encountered in
Credit 234-KO have been the result of inappropriate timing and phasing
between on-farm development and the construction of plant facilities, the
reverse location of plant facilities from that which was originally planned,
and cost over-runs from implementing different technologies in the process-
ing facilities. In 1972, 850 non-mated heifers from the US were imported
by KDBC, but in the same year, KDBC also imported an equal number of preg-
nant heifers from Australia. The appraisal estimates were for the importa-
tion of 5,100 non-mated heifers. However, IDA agreed in 1972 to the
importation of pregnant heifers to accommodate the strong demand by Korean



ANNEX 3
Page 6
farmers for cows which were close to milking. The decision for mated heifers
was also taken to reduce the farm cost of feed grains for the period origin-
ally envisioned to bring imported heifers to pregnancy. In 1973, an addi-
tional 1,700 pregnant heifers were imported from USA and Australia. The
shift to importation of pregnant heifers led to an 80% increase in the cost
of cattle imports above project estimates. This necessitated a reallocation
of funds and an additional allocation of US$1.1 million to the cattle sub-
component. The shift to pregnant heifers, however, had the much more
important effect that milk flowed from Project farms before processing plants
were ready to receive that milk. By May 1973, 400 of the proposed 700
Korean farmers were participating in the Project without an outlet for this
milk. Consequently KDBC was forced to assume the collection costs of the
raw milk and sell it to other processors at no profit.
12.       Several factors account for the entire revision of the plans for
processing plants made at the time of Project appraisal. Given the early
milk flows, KDBC was forced to move ahead rapidly with plant construction.
The decision was made to construct a fluid milk plant at Gwangju than risk
heavy competition for bottled milk in the Seoul area, which was the original
plan. Also, by 1970/71 liquid milk sales were increasing by 29% per annum,
whereas milk powder sales were up 38% per annum. This picture, coupled with
the realization that national milk drying capacity was severely limited,
led KDBC to choose in 1972 the establishment of a milk drying plant in the
northern area where most of their milk was produced.
Plant Investments
13.       In addition to revisions in plant locations KDBC selected high
quality milk production lines, production of a complex baby milk powder
and an asceptically packed fluid milk, both having higher cost estimates
and demanding greater technology, design, and supervision than planned for
in the appraisal. KDBC signed a technical service contract with Morinaga
Dry Milk Company of Japan under which Morinaga provided the expertise and
greater part of all imported machinery for the production of a high quality
baby milk powder. The resulting baby food of higher quality than KDBC's
leading competitor (same price) is produced at much higher overhead costs
than estimated. The resultant investment cost overruns on the plant were
87%, an additional US$1.2 million.
14.       Similarly, KDBC chose a high quality fluid milk line, the product-
ion of an asceptically packed milk from the Tetrapack Company of Sweden.
KDBC estimated that the sterilized milk product, having a longer life than
pasturized fluid milk, would be saleable over a much greater area.  Total
cost of this plant is under forecast by 31%, but the lower cost has been
the result of failure to meet original investment plans which had included
the production of flavored milks and ice cream at the same site (see para
16). The tetrapack product demands high cost production with a high per-
centage of foreign exchange cost in the value added. Imported papers
comprise 28% of total input costs.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
15.       KDBC has had to pay high indirect costs in its association with
both Morinaga and Tetrapack Companies. The initial royalty for Morinaga
amounted to US$55,000 with additional payments of US$137,000 each year until
1978. The lease on Tetrapack machinery amounts to US$87,000 each year
and the initial royalty (leasehold) was US$217,000. In part, however, cost
over-runs are due to price increases for imported machinery well above the
10% forecast in the appraisal report. The actual price rises on imported
equipment during 1971-1974 were approximately 15-20% per annum.
16.       More important, cost over-runs have made it impossible for KDBC to
continue their original investment-plants. Project I plans for production
of whole flavored milks in year 2 and ice cream in year 3 of the Project
were suspended. The small butter plant to process the off-take from fat
standardizing and a small batch condensed milk plant at Honam have also been
dropped. The net effect of these changes in plans, particularly those
regarding flavored milks and ice cream, has been to seriously reduce the
profitability of KDBC.
Sales
17.       The sales of baby milk powder in the eleven months (May 74 - April
75) of production have been satisfactory at 411,000 kg. Sales for this
period should have exceeded.700,000 kg, but technical difficulties in
start-up operations, and the introduction of the product without sufficient
promotion accounted for the reduced amount. The value of sales for this
period on baby milk powder has been about 489 million won. It is estimated
that the inappropriate phasing of both plants with Project milk resulted in
the loss in sales of 400 million won (US$833,000) in 1973. Until December 16,
1974 KDBC was required under Government price controls to sell the powder at
550 won per 500 g/can. The low profitability would improve, now that
Government has permitted a 22% increase of the price. The ratio of sales to
stocks has improved from 65:35 to 72:28 in the last four months.
18.       KDBC began production of tetrapacked milk in December 1973.  Milk
quality control has been excellent and plant efficiency has been good.
An effective agent distribution system was rapidly established, but without
prior market research and advertising, sales were disastrous and averaged
only 48,000 kg in the first months. By March of 1974 sales had reached
178,000 kg per month and in March 1975 were 490,000 kg (market value of 123
million won per month). Inventories of finished products vary seasonally,
but KDBC has dramatically reduced stocks with better coordination between
production and marketing. Tetrapack sales now cover all operating costs
of the plant, bu. have been inadequate to generate working capital require-
ments for both plants or cover KDBC overheads and a much needed promotional
campaign. KDBC is expected to generate a greater net surplus in the 1975
summer season from the sales of Tetrapacks (now in 500 cc brick packs) and
from the excellent sales of whole milk powder of about 30,000 kg per month.
It is estimated that KDBC could sell twice the current amount of fluid
milk presently sold given greater availability of raw milk.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Present Financial Condition of KDBC
19.       The net operating deficit of KDBC for 1974 is 141.1 million won.
This is a result of high administrative and overhead costs in relation to
low plant throughput and sales. KDBC should have a net profit at the end
of 1976 of about 488 million won (Table 5). KDBC has incurred to date 6
years of loss after all deductions, a loss carried forward of about 84.3
million won. The expected profitability by 1976 will have a combined
carry forward value of 301 million won and will ease the company's reliance
on costly short-term borrowings for working capital.
20.       Balance sheet analysis for 1974 shows the low ratio of accounts
receivable to current liabilities, of 22%. When long term liabilities due
in one year are included in this ratio, KDBC shows an insufficient degree
of solvency. Current liabilities of short-term loans and overdrafts were
358 million won for 1974. As of April 1975, KDBC had short-term loan
liabilities of 495 million won (US$1.03 million). 385 million won of these
borrowings have come from the Cho Houng Bank at commercial credit and
overdraft interest rates of 15.5% and 17.5% respectively. Increased short-
term debt service for 1975 will amount to over US$150,000.
Financial Projections for KDBC
21.       Given the lack of coordination between plant construction and raw
milk flow and the slow start in operations, 1974-75 has been an inevitable
low point in financial condition for KDBC. Nevertheless, the company has
a sufficient degree of credit worthiness to justify the implementation of
the proposed Project. The ratio of net earnings to sales.(excluding deprecia-
tion) for 1976 should be about 7% and will rise to 9% by 1980.
22.       The addition of Project II and its diversification in profitable
production lines would triple KDBC's profitability by 1980 over projections
for that year of Project I. KDBC's present concern for long-term finan-
cial viability is the likelihood of increases in long-term debt resulting
from devaluation of the won. Including a sufficient degree of risk by
calculating losses of 3% increase per year on foreign exchange for both
Project I and projected Project II debt payments, KDBC would have no dif-
ficulty in meeting debt-service requirements. Net profits of the company
at present levels of profitability on frozen milk products, proposed powders,
and fluid milk would be 1.0 billion won in 1978, 2.8 billion won by 1982,
and 3.2 billion won at full development in 1987.
The Outlook for Project II
23.       KDBC has gained an excellent capability from experience in Project
I to implement Project II. KDBC staff have developed considerable experience



ANNEX 3
Page 9
in planning for on-farm development and coordinating milk flows witil pro-
cessing requirements and seasonal demand. The company has greatly improved
processing economy while promoting quality milk products. In the short
time of operation, KDBC has demonstrated its strength in technical and
quality control aspects of processing and in engineering and execution. With
the consolidation of KDBC capabilities in technical assistance to project
farmers and in product marketing and distribution, KDBC will be an excellent
conduit for dairy farm development and a successful agent for growth in
national dairy products.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Korea Dairy Beef Co.
VCPRESIDENT
( MANAGER)
|EXECUTIVE
|VICE PRESIDENT
hPLANNING          *ADMINISTRATION                    'DAIRY                           'TECHNICAL                                   BUSINESS                         MARKETING                                   'FINANCE
PROCESSING                       SERVICES                                    DPRMN                             EATETDPRMN
DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                         DEPARTMENT                       DEPARTMENT                                    PARTMENT                       DEPARTMENT                                   DEPARTMENT
PRDCUREMENT  DAIRY               ~~LIVESTOCK          KDREA                                                                                     DARPARMSy
GENERAL  AND                FARMS               ~~~~~~~RESEARCH      NEW ZEALAND               SALES              PROMOTION              RESEARCH              PROCESSINGFAM
ACCOUNTING             SERVICES                 'EAIRY FARM                                                                                                                                            FACILITIES
'CENTRAL              *HNAM                'YEONGNAM
PLANT                 PLANT                PLANT
M-nager of Dtpa,tmtnt or Pr.c.t.ing Plant is artpres,n-at-ve on the Board of Directors
World Bank-9825






KOREA                                                                    ANNEX 3
Table 1
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Dairy Beef Company
Personnel Status KDBC
and Incremental Staff Requirement
Present Additional                       /1      Present  Additional                         Present Additional                          Staff                 TWO          Staff
Home Office           Staff   Staff               Central Plant-        Staff    Staff        ' Honam Plant         Staff   Staff           Yeongnam Plant    Required    Collection Centers Required
Required     '                                    Required    '                              Required        _
Managers                 5         -              Manager                 1           -       * Administration        8          1          Manager                1         Milk Tester             2
Planning Department
Planning             3         1              Administration         16           2          Technical Service   6            3          Administration         5         Operator               2
Publishing           2         -
Administration Dept.                              Production             16          3          Production           22          3       ' Production             30         Helper                 2
Administration       5         -
Personnel            2         -
Accounting          14         2              Maintenance            23           2          Marketing             7          1       ' Technical Service    7
Drivers              6         -
lechnical Service Dept.                      '   Quality Control         4           1          Financing             3          1       ' Marketing               4
Specialists          5         4
Material                6          1       ' Driver                 9          2          Finance                4
Marketing
Supervisor           -         1
Liquid Milk          2         -              Technical Service       8           3       ' Daily Hired           22          3          Drivers                9
Infant Powder        2         -                                                             Workers
Accounting           4         2
Sales Promotion    36          6              Drivers                11           2                                                      Daily Hired           30
Drivers              3         -         '                                                                                            ' Workers
Ice Cream            -         2
Daily Hired Workers  37            5
Business Department
Business             3         1
Purchase             2         1
Finance
Financing            5         4
Mutual Insurance    1          -
Milk Processing          1         2
lore-Nsv ZReled Farm 15           -          I
TOTAL BY CATEGORY  116        26          .                         122          19                               77        14                                 90                                6
KDBC TOTAL STAFF - 315
ADDITIONAL STAFF REQUIRED - 155
/1 Finance and Marketing employees for Central Plant are attatched to Home Office, KDBC, Seoul.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
KOREA
FIRST INTEC-RAIED DAIRY DEVELOPMNIT PROJECT
Fi--ciol Projection for RUBE Project Accout
(million -en
- - - - -  - - - -  -  - - -  -  - - -  - - - -  -  - - -  -  -(o....ct nt    1975    price - ---e- -- - - -       -- - -  -  -- - -   - -- -  - - -
1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1928        1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1981        119         1,201 
laity  Pro..e.alio
Salox:   Hoc,s Ploc,t                               ----         ----        ----      1.287       1.880       1, 946      2,139       2,347       2.566       2,808        3,075       3,075       3,075       3,075       3,075       3,075        3,073
Sole -Cetre   P10tc--  ----                                            ----               882      3,359       4,344       4,609       5,301       6,003       6~,609       v.M    7361 7. 361            7       ,361  7.361      7,36       1  7361  l1
Du-Total                                      ----        ----        ----        .19       529          690         6,748       7,4          X1         9,497      143                     io,4'36     t-~i         I 3         00,436      19Th9
CASH OUTFL~OW
Operating9 Expne      oe,Pan                          --         --           --       1.087       1,606        1,659       1.800       1,981      2,157        2.352       2,573       2,373       2,573       2,573       2,573       2,173        2,573
Operaing   oponses       L-Coto   Elect              ----        ----        ----         921      2,804       3,486       3,607       4,212       4.707        5,227       5,712       5,712       3,730       5,730        5,730       5,730       2,730
O-eheada ecd Hom  Offiuc Uxpe..sna
allocateLd to Plods.                             ----        ----          21         500         419         461         409         533          571         616         666         664         663         663         663          663         663
lob-Total                                    ----         ----          21      2,316       48729       -5,606      3982        6776        7435        0,95        0951         8949        8.961       I9766       8,966       8,9666
SPOUATING. SURPLUS (DEFICIT)I--  ----                                                (211       (147)        410         604         766         923       1,214       1,302       1.485       1,487       1,.470      1,470        1,470       1,470       1,470
Operting Surplus (DeficitS  ---                                         --           (21)       (1471        410         730         896       1,163       1,651       1,914       2,182       2,185       2,161       2,161       2,161        2,161        ., 161
CASH INFLOW6
IDA Credit- Techi-ol Serices                        ----           26          18          20          25        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----         ---          --         ---          --         -----
IDA Credi   - FernD-neop-nn                         --- -         550         711         586          40        ----        - ---       ----        ----        -.---       ----        ---           --         ---          --         -----
IDA Credit -P....e. ing                             ----          139         352         271         146        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ---            -          --         ---          --         -----
G-veenet Loec - E-a- -                                 60         251         159    ~ 23            ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ---         --            --         ---         --           --         --
Sh-rt-te-,   Loo..                                     15        3--         ---          50          - -        - -          - -        - -          - -        - -          --          - -        - -           - -        - -          - -- -
Fern tt-Lending
Intrs t Re-ec-  on IDA Funds (97,5                  ----           45         109         167         150         140         113          85          57          30          10        ---          --          ---          --         -----
IntrntRevenue or 0- -n,et  Fonda  (0%)               5          28          42          43          39          32          74          17           9           3         --         ---           --         ---          --         -----
Aus _l     __arcr                               ----        ----         ----          34          44          46          50          53          57          61          66          71           76          83          88          91          92
Coill-tion   iro  Farce                 ----                     ---         ----          10         135         281         3853        390         390         368 0       255         109            7        ---          --         -----
Cuct-  -e t   Subeidy                                ---            9          10           9          12        ----        -- -        ----------                                                               ---- -- -                           - -
Poid-ic Copito1                                          330           30         40         700        ---          -- --                  ----=       ---          .-         ---          ---          --
TOTAkL INFLUO                                         410      1.028       1.420       __          1,009       1.237       j1_46        1,708      2,164        2,388      2,53,Jl      2L,3 65     2,244       2,243       2,249       2,752      _2 ,2 56
CASH OUTFLOW
Unveatee-te
HoensPlon                                           ----         ----         2 77        113        ----          14        ----          13          Dl        ----            9       ----        ----         ---          --         -----
Ceet-elPloc                                         ----         ----         613         467         133           9          20           6          18          17           7        ----        ----         ---          --         -----
((DOC Earn Lending
IDA Fonda -FPor  D-vIlFcp t                         ----          158         693         986          36        ----        ----   - --    -- --                ---          --         --          ---          --           ----                   --
IDA Fonda    Technlei-     - nvic-c                 ----           26          10          20          75        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ---           --         ---          --         -----
Onve- -eo  Fonda - Eo.- D-nnlpinut                     20         145         715         113        ----        ----        ----        ---         ----        ---         ---         --            --        ---          --           --         --
Some OEMc  tEpo....a  .- Fre,2                                      8          19          51          77          03          90          98         106         115         115         115         115          115         115         115         115
Uthen Porn Reloced Ep7n....                          ---           10          11          SU          63          60          69          79          00         RUt         104         106         112          109         126         128         120
TOTALOUITFLOIW                                      22         367       1,846       1.000O        334         166          179         196        223          228         235         221         227         234         241         243          243
ANNUAL1 C600 BALANCE DEFINE DUST SERVICE                     388         601        (426)       (231)        675       1,071       1.287      _1.512       1,941       2,16U    2i278          22144       2,017.    2L009         2_008        2.009       2,013
DElT DERVICE
IDA Credit  P- -nueicg  (97,)
Intrnt---                                              13          53          82          96          96          96          94          80          79          60          38          47           35          76          15           6
Principle                                ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----        ----          10          65         DII         117         117         117         117          117         120         102
IDA Credit  F-Fac   (37,)
Inreret                                 ----           19          41          67          49          69          69          67          62          54          46          39          31           24          16           83
Peeatl                                   --          --          --          --          ----        ----        ----          70         167         240         755         255         755          255         255         754         100
Icter-o                                     3          16          23          24          24          24          21          16          11           6           2            1       ----        ---           --         ---          --
Principle                                ----         --         --             -        --            12          62          94          99          99          07          37            4        ---          --         ---          --
Short-cer   Loan
Forign E       Prh-g tpHI 61                            ---             1           5          4        __  5          10          15         30          37           87        _102         113         122         130         137         _143        117
TOTAL SF87 SF10101                                       3          66         176         100         60 7-       211         263         309         549         674         677         620         576          562         5 51        542         416
ANNUAL CASl BALANCE AFTER DEBT 0E001C1                       385         615        (552)       (419)         68         060       1,074       1;123       1,392       1.486       1,601       1,524       1,441       1,447       1,457        1,467       1,597
L o..S  Corpo-otic  T.. - 407,                          ----        ----        ----        ----        ----         344         410)        449         557          504         640         610         576         579         583         587         639
NET CAIN DALANCE                                             385         615        (552)      14191          60         516         614         674         635        092          961         914         865         860          874         881         HID5
it  T-inetic   to   --rct pnlc-  wee ho-d  cinflation in-  of 07,  -tp-udrd Dr-  1936 to 19-80  th-crol-e  cont-t.
2/  Caeh ic-finwe do net include dep-site  Pro  Ca--r, anep-n-occn,p-nis...ryn-teo, cr0 nthr  curen  liobilitie   of K110 chick wer  used tc Pic-nc   dnfiuitt  iv 1973 ond 1974.
3/  Colloctioca fro  fere in-ludo both dc~ -tpoy-ut  f I0A leon end tr Ccvcnc--  Icon to RUBG.
4/  Other Porn Related Enpe..e  inrlnde  -nD-i Inn...            ccc- eneo   f KDBC,  re.....ch nek ncp--t,  business  tune  paid no interes   -nd i---ouc   revnue                        -d u 72, a110c    for bad debt.
5/  The tere of the  -igin-l credit eg--ten   stipeloct  37 for repoys..t to   oer n   iv 15 yeo...    Th  cblcloc                           nde h-c  is 5% i, 10 y-o-  as EEOC is currenly poying GC.-nnevt.
4/  Foireg   c-hoge risk col-ulted at 3% Iceroc   per   -u  Ef-  1975.



Annex 3
Table 3
KOREA
SECCOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEIVELOMENT PROJECT
FinanIal Pro1ectiona for KDBSC Project Account
(Won million.)
----- -------------------------------                                                  ----------------(Constant 1975 Prices.) ---------------------------
1975       1976        1977       1978       1979        1980       1981        1982       1993        1904       1991        1986       1987
CASH INFLOW
airs P-  Ho..    Plnt-                                                     503         795        938      1,165       1,194      1,281       1,339      1,347       1,356      1,360      1,360
glabs   H-Ceta Plant                              5~,-                     20      1,134       2,203      2,500       2,946      3,235      3,399       3,632       3,645      3,675      3,675
lairs   Yoo..na-  Plant                     -                           1,703      3 56        562        6  31P             82  J7402 791              8,174       8,4 5       ,,)f 8 515  51
Sub-Totel1                                                           2,726      3,325      8,781       9,796    10,952       11,924     12,657    13,133       13,316      13,3551    13,350
CA00 OUTFLOW
iy Prcess ing
Operting T..epnne-ooa   Plant                     -          -           421         638        768         922        943       1,026      1,070       1,071      1,093      1,091       1,093
Operating Expenses   Central Plant                 -1                     418         864      1,373       1,778      2,088      3,302       2,4i7      2,577       2,584      2,607       2,607
OpertIng Expenses Y -...ogna  Plant               -           -         1,109      2,200       3,386      3,788       4,102      4,453       4,713      4,980       1,095      5,093       1,093
Overheads and Il-n  Office Eopensce                            il11        594        823        963       1,007      1,051       1,102      1,129      1,149       1,169      1,171       1,171
Alloca.ted to Prone,. sing
lb-T.tol                                             112U      2542       44,27       6,690      7415        84,86      8483        94369      9701       9939        T9466       ?
OPERATTNG SIIRPLES (DIPICIT                              -           (112)       184         998      2,091      2,301       2,766      3,041       3,288      3,432       3,577      3,384       3,584
Op..tig SpI-(Deficit) -(121)                                             215      1.257      2 844       3 50       406         447        4 833 5,,     07        ,,)        5.36 5 26      0 _
CA05 INFLOW
Loacs
IBRD Loa    F- fi  Dnvalog7ct V                   -          1 161        941         901        345        -          -           -          -           ----
lInR Lon-   Proce...ing -                          206       1,828        383         330        154        -          -           -          -          -                      --
IBRD Leea- Terhninal Services.                                 123        173         166        125          88         53        -          -          ----
IBRD Loan  F- Br  Working Capital1                              94         92           6       -           -          -           -          -          -                      --
NAGS Loc-   Barn Dnvclopn...t 2!                  -            483        407         432        210        -          -           -          -----
NAGS loan-Tarn Wnrkinj Capit ol                                 23          23          2       -           -          -           -          ---                               --
ShorIt-tern Borrsings  -                                       161       -           -          -           -          -           -          -          ----
Earn On-lerding
Interest Revenu   L-9Ln  Tee,  (12%)              -            i90        332         512        578         554        508       _433        _330       _231         141         62          14
Itntre~t Reveue-Short Teen-                                                 14         14           1         12          6        -          -          ----
Animal Torcc-                                                 -            30          43         47          30         33          57         61          66         71          76         82
Collections from F'a,o-   Long-Tor.-              -                                              195         382       3592        734         823        925         649        399         122
Co1lectiona  rn  Earns.-   Short Tern             -                       117         115          0 8                                                                             
PaidicCpia  1O/                                        120        450         2100      -           -          -           -          -                                    
TOTAL, INFLOW                                     .326      4.3_32      2.949      3,730       4.307      4.682.      5.311      50696       6.067 _2E              kU         5_aQ        $486
1600 OLTTI'iJW
H-onoPlat                                         -             68        138        -          -           -          -           -          ---                               --
Central Plant                                      140         395        112        -          -           -          -          -           -          ----
Sc-g-a  Plant                                      132       1,360        212         330        160        -16                      50         31          16       -16                      55
Totsl Contingeny                                     86        782        132          83         21        -          -           -          -           ----
IBID P,nds - Fern DcveIcpeot                      -          1,181        941         901        345        -          -           -          -          ----
TORI and 1D0C Ponds for Technical
Asei.tane                                                   145        205        194         147        103          64       -           -          --                                 -
RAC  Loa-TornFeI  l-rvpl,pnet                     -            403        407         432        210        -          -           -          -           ----
TORI and G-or-,ot Ponds for Working
Capital L....                                              117         115          8        -          -
All-ntion cf RH-  Office EnPenns to
Torn Develpent                                 -11                      61         95         105        114         114        114         114        114         114        114        114
Onhio  Eon  Related i,pEse--                                    32         70         158        184         198        198         206        213        221         221        221         221
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                   358      4,494       241        2.0        1.172         4~17        392        370         318        351         335        351        385
ANNUALI 1409 84A81NC1 BEPORE DIRT RERVICE                (L32)       (162)      .56       1.579       3.335      4,326       4,941.     5-.23       5.7ioi        3.63.    374        3434.       5401
DBOT SERVICE
TORI Lca-Inl,trnet (8.37.)                              18        304         435        557         612        619        622         588        541         478        411         341        272
Enicriple   -                      -          -           -          -            ~~~        ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~ ~ ~~~23  598  368  727  799  809  815
lAE   on- icca i   9%)                                      41          77        16           33         27         ll          88         61          34          16          4       -
Principle                                                                                   90         171        237        299         299        209         128          42
Short-tern Lo...     Itees  (15.0%)                   -          -25                                                                                           
rIII_iplc '                                             161                                                                                                               424 ---   
Enroig. Etohangc Rink oe TORD121                                   18          39         67          92        111         135        237        299         362        399         414        42
Loe-t  Goocr,nnetco-erso   (48%)                  -9                        19         32         44          53         65         114        144         174        191        199         203
1B0  ayetfor Risik                                              9         20          35         48          38         70        123         133        188         208       -215       -220
TOTL RDBT IRTCE                                   19        354        718         108        795         894        99         ,3         ,2        1,2         1,6%      1I'm         1779
AtPHIAL fAIR B8A60N0 AFTER ~DEBT SER~VICE                 (51)       (518)      (182)        871      2,540      3,371       3,944      3,872       4,086      4,239       4,142      3.937       3,751
Less,  Corporaion Tao (40%)                       -           -          -            348      1,016       1,340      1,378      1,549       1,434      1,696       1,657      1,103       1,500
liTCASHI BAL~ASCE                                         (51)       (516)      (182)       523       1,524      2,123       2,366      2,323      2,432       2,633      2,485       2,374      2,231
Add,  Cash Oala-c- Projoct T                         68        316         614        674        835         892        961         914        865         868        874        0880        958
FIRAL NET 1618 BALANCE                                      17       -           432       1,197      2,339      2,915       3,527      3,037      3,317      3,501       3,359      3,254      3,209
I/  See Annex 3, Tuble 4.
2l  IS- Annex 5, Table 3.
2 S In  Anno. 5, T0410 2.
4/  .. Tnitic tnnc-r-t prices woe base.d 00 ,infltion index of 8% coxpooded iron 1976 to 1980, there after cstoac.
T/ -nd Flcwc for loans and ropayont ore hosed on disbursemet which inclodes price cotingency of 38% ond physical cotingenc.y of 10%.
6/ BTRTD Loon innln~de  start-up naterilol  for Doiry Procsasicg.  See Anoso 5, Table 5.
2 G-Ovcrccct loan dos  non..  isclod. auholdies which are direct poyn..st  tc farnor  thc-gh the MhE.  L .onicn lodes  n,atiges..ise. on -local cots of dairy deolopeen.t.
S/ hort-tere hor-cngs tak- by KDB01 in co-enia1 eceket or 15.5%.
9/  Colle-tiono fron f-a  inclode both the repayxni of the NACP loon ond TORDI.loo  to KISC.  Earn loses. hav  3 yea  grace.  6 year  repoyoent with 9% on past..e
ontoblishont fondo and 12% on all ocher dairy fain lending.
10/ Paid in a-pitaI ref lec tsthe first 3 istoiloente  f chars Increases.  It is enpected that odditio..a  share capital for 1978. 1979 will sot he .ce.......ily gElc
I/the dznc  of tush surploso. in these ye-   and their trocafer in part, tcrsevs
1/In.iodrooinal ic-raen ocpenen of KDRC, bosi.asa tones paid oc intIncest and in.oronc-  rvuesond o 2%.aloac  for had debts.
12/ To-igo onchango rich calco1oted at 37, increas  per anu;  Goveromet is to hea  risk   r  on.-gr  foeds, oppresixotoly 48. of toto1 TORI loan



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KOREA DAIRY BEEF COMPANY
(Tho,sand Won)
1969         1970         1971        1972          1973        1974                                                                  1969         1970          1971         1972         1973         1974
LIABILITIES
ASSETS
ICurrent Liabilities
I  Crrent  Assets                                                                                                Accounts Payable-Trade                                                                                                53330
Cash                        111         178          192           707         595          1968            Accoont  Payable                                                  110          970          5289      176822          42590
Deposits                 15087        3739       192897         228537      199838       121888             Notes and Bills Payable                                                                                17809          81271
Securities                              36°82      12450   210     11835       16l23     14504N Short-Tern Loans and Overdrafts                                             15000                                  30760          358000
Acoosnts Receivable                     368         1845          21115       19013      143043              Deposit Rece.ived                                                             383                     10488           27218
Notes and Bills
Receivable                                                                 4944       109253             Reveuese  in  Advance                                12148       5181        24690        90863       111614             853
Sspense Pays.ents           57          11         7358        450141       25331         24567             Guarantea Received                                                                                    10757           21289
Stocks and Finished Goods 153            36                                    6916      304511              Others                                                                       9688        15197         9868           60457
Inventories of lSo-                                                          15728        55832        II   Fined Liabilities
materials
Other Sopplias            2461       2204           1733          4380       48239        74845             Long-Term Loans free AFDC                            10800                   63200        310905      469905         493105
Calves                    2951       5421         11238           10738       11137        17249            Long-Tern Loan - IDAl                                                                     664980    1836629         3295959
Guarantee Paid                        414           450           6707       40374        67656             Other Long-Tern                                                                665           2087        1671          10994
Other Assets                          502          9882          109079      23790        79628             Reserves                                                        3200                         3865        3865           5819
Nob-total           20820      13123        225805         832587      397530      1011371
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               22948    23491           99596       1093186    2680188         4450885
II Fined Assets
A. Buildings and
Structures        20715      52853         54286          70378      168212       438922
Machinery                                        83           5949      638938       759914
Vehicles              3342       7554         11119          22096       51735        89917
Land                 49875      66636         67152         109909      115780       124642
Ca.s                  2238      24462         29360          30170       30420        30483
Others               14805      16154         19879          67557      325573       197896
Less  depreciation                             6795          18415       34432       106195
Sob-total        90975    167659         175084         287644    1296226       1532579
B. Intangible Fied
Assets                       3600          8993          10906       26865        92758
C.  Inveetnents                                                                                      III  Stockholders  Eqoity
L.T. Fanm Loans                                                                                       Paid-in Capital                                    100000   150000          330000        360000       400000        600000
Receivable                                 19865         318055    1207623       1600904            Sorplus or Deficit (earned)                           -        t4339)        (4157)         1163         2630        (31190)
S.T. Farm Loaan                                                                                       Governeent Subsidy and Other                          -       41805          44664         46497        50973         59942
Receivable                                                 4606       23404        24512            Reserves                                              --       -              -             -           10517         10516
Total A, B and C    90975    171259          203942         621211    2554119       3250753             Net Profit                                          (4538)      381          4127          9370        (35997)       (63410)
Total Stockholders Eqoity                           95462   187647         374634        417630       428123          571858
III    Deferred  Accounts       6615      26756         44483          56418      156663       760619
Total  Assets       118410   211138         474230        1510216    3108311       5022743      Total Liabil,ities end Stockholders' Eqoity               118410   21ii38         474230       1510216      3108311        5022743
1/  Lang-tern loan pcy;ble to IDA differs fron Project and Financial Projections as receipt
of  foods from  Govarnment and couplets disborsement of fends by KDBC did not always fall in same
financial year.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Dairy Beef Company
Income Statement
(Current Prices - Million Won)
1969      1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
Net Sales                                0.9       6.9         17.3      40.4       59.9   1,715.8    5,239       6,793    11,084    16,600    23,704    28,360    31,440    32,869    33,947    34,676    35,209    35,259    35,259
Cost of Sales '1                         0.6       5.5        28.0       44.5       52.2   1,403.4    4,410       5,146      8,706    12,468    17,123    20,561    22,667    23,617    24,318    24,777    25,097    25,134    25,134
Profit/Lose on Sales                     0.3       1.4       (10.7)       4.1        7.7      312.4       829     1,647      2,378      4,132      6,581      7,799      8,773      9,252      9,629      9,899    10,112    10,125    10,125
Administrative Expenses /2               6.0       -          10.6       58.1      103.3      453.5       559        803     1,373      2,141      2,569      2,914      3,055      3,137      3,188      3,233      3,269      3,273      3,273
Net Operating Profit/Loss               (5 7)       1.4      (21.3)    (62.2)    (95.6)   (141.1)         270        844     1,005      1,991      4,012      4,885      5,718      6,115      6,441      6,666      6,843      6,852      6,852
Other Income                             2.0       2.3         15.5      88.4      125.7      163.5       253        4058       583       726        749        710        643        563        487        400        300        229         191
Total                     3.7       3.7         5.8       26.2       30.1       22.4       523      1,252     1,588      2.717      4,761      5,595      6,361      6,678      6,928      7,066      1,143      7,081      7,043
Prior Year Adjustment                   -         -          -          -           49.5      -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Other Deductions /4                      0.8       3.3        11.5       43.8       63.5       83.8       626        764     1,151      1,745      2,711      3,179      3,549      3,916      4,090      4,199      4,173      4,055      3,877
Net Profit/Less                         (4.5)      0.4       (17.3)    (17.6)       16.1      (61.4)    (103)        488       437        972      2,050      2,416      2,812      2,762      2,838      2,867      2,970      3,026      3.166
Profit/Loss Brought Forward             -         (4. 5)       4.1       21.4       39.0      (22.9)      (84)      (187)      301        738      1,710      3,760      6,176      8,988    11,760    14,598       17,465    20,435    23,461
Profit/Loss Carried On                  (4.5)     (4.1)      (21.4)    (39.0)    (22.9)    (84.3)    (187)           301        738     1,710      3,760      6,176      8,988    11,750    14,598    17,465    20,435    23,461    26,627
/1 Cost of Sales include inputs, operating coats, wages and saleries for a11 EDBC plants.
/2 Administrative Expenses include all overheads of home office for far lending, marketing
and sales expenses, as well aa those costs incurred by EDBC for technical services,
animal insurance expenese, research work, and husiness taxes paid on interest revenue.
/3  Other income includes interest revenues from on-farm lending, revenues frnm animal
insurance, and payments made to KDBC for Government subsidy.
/4 Other deductions include debt service payments from Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3, and the
estimated foreign exchange risk.  The corporate tax of 40% after debt service is else
included in these deductions.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATION DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis - On Farm Development
A. Summary
1.        The rates of return and sensitivity analysis for new 8 cow farms
and restructured existing farms are estimated to be:
Financial Rate      If Income     If Income
of Return         Increases     Decreases
5%    10%     5%    10%
New Farms                 20%            22    25       17    15
Existing Farms            28%            31    34       25    23
The range of the sensitivity analysis (0-10%) reflects the fluctuations
between farm costs and income experienced in Project I.
2.        Farmers are expected to base their decision to participate in the
Project on the expected cash flow from the investments. The analysis
indicates that the cash-flow including short-term borrowings of 8 cow
farmers would be positive from year 3 of the Project. Project I farms
reconstructed under Project II would have a positive cash flow in year 1 of
Project II.
B. Methodology
3.        Analysis of the costs and benefits of different size dairy units
indicates that the minimum viable unit for the Project would be 8 ha with
an initial herd of 8 cows. An examination of existing farms financed under
Project I indicates that farms with less than 8 cows will not be able to
overcome their present financial difficulties unless they receive additional
cattle to increase their cow herd to 8 (para 2.18). Consequently, Project II
would provide for:
(a) the establishment of new 8 ha - 8 cow units;
(b) reconstruction of ailing Project I farms to assure
their viability in the long-term.
Two models were constructed: Model I represented new 8 ha - 8 cow units and
Model II 5 ha - 5 cow units. Approximately 70% of farms in Project I are
characterized by Model II. Full details of these models are presented in
Tables 1-8 of this annex.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The qualitative and quantitative selection of inputs in Models I
and II, detailed in this annex, are based on the results of analysis of KDBC
farm records for the highest 15% of all Project I farms by net income per
cow for the production years 1973-74. Average levels of farm inputs and
outflows for these farms were then reviewed by the mission in consultation
with FAo and agricultural universities and research institutions in Korea
to ensure that the most efficient, but practicable, farming system was
reflected in both models. Implementation of the technology underlying the
inputs will require careful supervision and the provision of comprehensive
farmer training programs.
5.        All values in the analysis with one exception were based on April
1975 prices. The one exception was in Model II 1971 through 1974 where
costs and benefits were valued at the estimated current prices for these
years. This departure did not, however, affect the financial and economic
rate of return for the Project since only those costs and benefits which
relate exclusively to the investments under Project II were taken in the
analysis.
C. Analysis
Investment Costs
6.        Although similar investments would be required for Models I and II
the existing farm was assumed to have sufficient facilities under Project I
to support the herd increases proposed under Project II. Consequently the
investment cost for Model II farms was considerably lower than that of
Model I farms and included only the establishment of 2.0 additional
hectares of pasture and 0.5 ha of fodder cropland, renovation of 4.0 ha of
existing pasture, and purchase of 3 heifers, additional milk cans and coolers.
7.        Costs for the establishment of pasture and fodder cropland in-
cluded land clearing, fencing, essential roadworks, plowing, sowing
and fertilizers. The cost per hectare for pasture establishment was
165,678 won at April 1973.  This comprised the following costs:
Item                     Won
Land clearance                    65,000
Lime                              10,600
Pasture seed                      20,400
Fertilizers (N, P, K)             29,436
Labor for fertilizing and
seeding                      13,000
Farm road                         10,600
Fencing materials                 10,600
Inspection fee, surveying,
etc.                          6,042
-165,678



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The investment cost for land clearance, fertilizers, seed, farm road,
fencing and inspection fee for the establishment of 1.0 ha of corn
in the first year of development was 246,249 won and for the establishment
of 0.5 ha of barley 100,685 won. Government does not provide a sub-
sidy to develop cropland.
8.        Investment for water supply comprised a well, hand pump, piping
and one trough at a total cost of 76,200 won.
9.        The investments in buildings were:
Description                                Cost
(won)
(a) cowbarn: with small adjacent rooms for milk cooling,
storage of concentrates, and accommodation
for cowhand.                                         1,449,900
(b)  holding yard and shelter                                           27,924
(c)  haybarn:  with storage space for fertilizers and machinery    134,250
(d)  silage pit                                                        180,432
10.       Investments in plant were:
Description                          Cost
(won)
(a)  1 silage cutter:  capacity 3.8 mt/hr                     237,300
(b)  1/3 share in a petrol motor for silage cutter             38,420
(c)  1 electric fence: wire and posts                          48,960
(d)  1 milk cooler:  in-can type                               10,203
(e)  9 milk cans: 40 liters capacity                           91,800
11.      Cattle received by farms would be 18 months old imported preg-
nant heifers, which when delivered on farm, cost 474,400 won each. The
foreign exchange component would be about 90%. The choice to import
pregnant heifers instead of heifer calves was determined by the need to
provide sources of cash income to farmers as early as possible, and by the
cost and organizational problems of raising calves to maturity in Korea.
12.       Experience of shipments made in Project I shows that heifers should
not be imported and distributed during the hot period from late June to
early September. They should not be shipped when more than 5 months pregnant
and tney should he prepared for the journey by quiet handling and proper
feeding before loading. Purchase arrangements should be made well ahead



ANNEX 4
Page 4
to ensure that the mating and growth of cattle meet Korean specifications,
particularly weight limits for air shipments.
Operating Costs
13.       Operating costs reflected the inputs required under the proposed
system of intensive pasture and concentrate feeding, to achieve yields of
4,000 kg of milk per cow per year after the first lactation. These costs
included:
(a) labor: one permanent worker at 19,100 won per
month commencing in the last quarter of year 1
when the cattle are delivered to the farm.
Casual labor was valued at 850 won per day
for male labor and 650 won per day for female
labor.
Casual labor costs per hectare of crop production
were:
barley (land preparation, harvesting, threshing):         52,700 won/ha
corn (land preparation and ensilage);                    105,000 won/ha
ryecorn (land preparation and 50% ensilage);              43,400 won/ha
Family labor is not included in the costs at this point but appears later
under item 'subsistence allowance' and 'farm family labor'; valued at
300,000 won per year in years 1-6 and 350,000 won in years 6-13. Family labor
is used to reduce investment costs as far as possible and contributes 10% of
crop production labor in addition to other on-farm work.
(b) animal health: 6,300 won per animal unit per year.
This included veterinary visits 2,640 won, drugs
and medicine 3,660 won; artificial insemination -
3,200 won per cow per year.
(c) concentrate feed: 13% protein concentrate feed, costed
at 64 won/kg and consumed as follows:
cows: 1 kg concentrate per 3 kg milk produced
heifers: 2 kg per day
calves: 1.5 kg per day.
Mineral supplements were valued at 1,800 won per animal unit per year,
and calf starter at 20,000 won per calf per year;
(d) crop production excluding labor: the cost per ha was
estimated to be:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Seeds     Fertilizers       Total
--         won-----------------
barley                          6,600     18,300          24,900
corin                          9,000      26,600          35,600
ryecorn                        8,000      15,100          23,100
(e)  pasture maintenance:  the cost per ha includes fertilizers
in the following proportion:
200 kg urea (46%N) at 64 won/kg           12,800 won
250 kg potash (60% K20) at 26 won/kg       6,500 won
500 kg phosphate (20% P205) at
23 won/kg                            11,500 won
Total cost per ha                    30,800 won
(f) pasture renovation: pasture renewal would start in year 4
of farm development and continue each subsequent year; new
farms would renovate 2.2 ha each year; existing farms
would renovate 1.3 ha annually until year 3 of Project II
and 2 ha thereafter. The cost per ha, excluding farm labor
was:
fertilizers               14,000 won
seeds                     16,900 won
hire of tractor           12,700 won
Total                43,600
(g) fuel and electricity: 8,000 won per farm per year.
(h) repairs and maintenance: calculated as a percentage
of investment costs as follows:
buildings and water supply           2%
motorized plant                     10%
milk cans and coolers                5%



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Contingencies
14.       Total investment costs included 5% contingencies.  Operating costs
were raised by 10% to account for contingencies and insurance.
Herd Projection and Yields
15.       The carrying capacity of the developed farm was considered to be
1.75 animal units per ha. The herd projection used the following assumptions:
(a) natality: 90% in year 1 (pregnant heifers received)
85% in year 2
80% in year 3 and subsequent years
(b)  mortality:  adults 3%
calves 10%
(c)  sales:      cull cows - the percentage sales are indicated
in Tables 2, 6 of this annex.
cull-heifers:  7%
good heifers:  as the herd increases some good
heifers were sold to keep the
size within the limits of carrying
capacity of the farm.
calves:        all male calves and 16% of surviving
heifer calves.
16.      The animal units were summed as follows:
cows: average number of head at the beginning and end
of the year.
heifers: 70% of average number of head at the beginning
and end of the year;
calves:   30% of calves at the end of the year.
17.      Milk yields are expected to be 3,000 kg per cow per year for the
first Lactation and 4,000 kg per cow per year for the subsequent lactations.
Sales
18.      Ililk sales were valued at 120 won per kg at the farmgate.  Although
the government minimum price is 110 won per kg, most farmers received 120
won per kg in April 1975.



ANNEX 4
Paoe 7
19.      The average prices for cattle sales were:
cull cow:      255,000 won
cull heifer:   200,000 won
good heifer:   350,000 won
calf:          47,000 won
20.      Each farm was also assumed to produce farm produce for sale in
nearby villages. This produce was valued at 120,000 won per year in year 1
and 60,000 won per year thereafter. In the first year of development, the
timber from 5 ha cleared land and 0.5 ha barley gave a cash income of
180,200 won; and in years 3, 4 and 5, 116,600 won was received from the sale of
0.5 ha barley.
Financing of Investment Costs
21.       Financing arrangements for investment costs for the new 8 cow
farm (Model I) would be:
(a)  Government subsidy of 97,400 won of a maximum
99,500 won available for pasture development.
This subsidy applies to land development on slopes
less than 30% with a density of forest of less
than 30%. The subsidy finances land clearing,
seeds, fertilizers, inspection fees and surveying.
Land clearing is financed by a cash grant of
60,000 won, other items are granted in kind;
(b) NACF loan: for pasture development principally
for the purchase of fertilizers 30,500 won per ha;
(c) NACF loan: for buildings, plant and water
supply 741,500 won;
(d) IBRD loan: the foreign exchange component on all
inputs for farm development; and
(e) Farmer's contribution: about 30% of total farm investment
costs before the addition of physical and price con-
tingencies.
22.       Financing arrangements of investment costs for the existing
farms (Model II) would be:
(a) Government subsidy: for pasture development
97,400 won per ha;
(b) NACF loan: for pasture development
30,500 won/ha;



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(c) NACF loan: for purchase of plant 23,400 won;
(d) IBRD loan: foreign exchange component on all
farm inputs; and
(e) Farmer's contribution: 30% of total farm investment
costs before the addition of physical and price
contingencies.
Debt-Service
23.       Debt-service would include the payment of amortization and in-
terests on the NACF and IBRD loans and the short trm loans required
to finance the gap between cash outflows and inflows during the initial
years of development.
24.       The NACF loan and the IBRD loan were lumped together in the
analysis. Repayment was calculated on the basis of equal annuities including
amortization and interest. The repayment period was nine years, including
three years grace during which interests were capitalized.
25.       Short term loans required in years 1, and 2 to overcome short-term
deficits arising from heavy investments in year 1, would be repaid within
one year and would bear an interest rate of 12%. A working capital fund
would be established under the Project to provide the loans.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development - Model I: New 8 Cow Farm
Investment Costs
(Won '000)
Units           Unit         Per Farm          Development Phasing               US$            Foreign           Exchange
Item                            Unit          Project         Cost           Cost            Year 1        Year 2          Equivalent        Component       Value Equiv.
______   _______   _____   _________   _______%         US$
Pasture Establishment:
Pasture                                         ha            6.5            165.7         1077.1           580            497.1             2244             11                 247
Crop 1/                                          i            1.5           231.3           346.9           346.9            -                723             11                  80
Water Supply 2/                                     unit            1              76.2           76.2             76.2           -                159              20                  32
Buildings:
Cowbarn                                         cow          11             131.8          1449.8          1449.8            -              3020              10                 302
Holding Yard and Shelter                         "           11                2.5           27.5             27.5           -                 57             10                    6
Silo                                                         11               16.4          180.4           180.4            -                376             10                  38
Haybarn                                                      11               12.2          134.2            134.2           -                280             10                   28
Plant:
Silage Cutter                                  unit           1             237.3           237.3           237.3            -               494              50                 247
Motor (1/3 share)                                "            1/3            115.2           38.4             38.4           -                 80             50                  40
Electric Fence, posts & wire                     "            1              49              49              49              -                102             20                  20
Cooler                                           *            1               10.2           10.2            10.2            -                 21             10                   2
Milk Cans                                                     9               10.2           91.8             61.2          30.6              191             10                   19
Livestock 3/                                        head            8             474.4         3795.2           3795.2           -               7907              90                7116
Sub-total                                                            7514            6986.3          527.7           15654              48                8177
Contingencies 57.                                                     376             349.7           26.3              783             -                  409
TOTAL                                                          7890             7336           554              16437              48                8586
1/  The farmer is assumed to have 6.5 ha of potential pasture land and 1.5 ha of potential crop land for development under the project.
2/  Well, hand pump, piping and one trough.
3/ Seventeen month old pregnant heifers.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development - Model I: New 8 Ccw Farm (10 units)
Herd Projection
-------------------------------------- Years  of  Project             -----------------------------------------
1            2             3              4             5              6             7              8             9
Dairy cows on hand                                                    72            64              76            82             86            92             98
plus bred heifers                                        80            -             24             20             23            26            28             22
Total to calve                                           80           72            88              96            105           112           120            120
Less deaths 3%  11                                        2            2              3              3              3             3             4              4
Less sale of culls                                        6            6              9             11             16            17            18             18
Total end year                                       79            64            76              82            86             92            98            98
Heifers                                  80               -           27             23             26             29            32            33             36
Less deaths 3% Ll                                                      1              1              1              1             1             1              1
Less sales / 2                                                         2              2              2              2             3       (3)  10          (3)13
Total end year                       80               -           24             20              23            26             28            22            22
Calves (lactations)                                       72           61             70             77             84            90             96            96
Less calf deaths 10% /1                                    7            6              7              8              8             9             10            10
Less calf sales /3                                        38           32            37              4O            44             48            50             50
Total end year                                        27            23            26              29            32             33            36             36
-Total AU /4                           33              84            93           105             115           124            133           140           141
Natality /1                                               90           85             80             80             80            80             80            80
Culling cows %                                             7            9             10             12             15            15             15            15
1st lactation 3000 kg.                                  216                          57              48             54            63            66             54
2nd lactation 4000 kg.                                     -          244           204             244           264            276           296            312
Total Milk  mt                                       216           244           261             292           318            339           362            366
Milk  sales at 120 won/kg, won'0oo         -           25920        29280         31320           35040         38160          40680         43440          43920
Cattle sales /5                                                                                                    -                           -
Cows                                    -           1530         1530           2295            2805          4080          4335           4590          459fr
Heifers                                 -               -          400           400             400           400            600          3050          4100
Calves                                  -           1786          1504          1739            1880          2068          2256           2350          2350
Total won '000                          -           3316         3434           4434            5085          6548          7T91           9990         11040
Concentrate
Cows 1jg/3kg  Milk                      -             72            81            87              97           106            113           121            122
Heifers 2 kg/day                       29               -           19            16              18            20             22            20             21
Calves 1.5/day                          -             15            13            14              16            18             18            20             20
Total mt                               29             87           113           117             131           144            153           161            163
Cost at 64 won/kg,  on '000            1856           5568          7232          7488            8384          9216           9792         10304          10432
Mineral, 1800 wun/AU, ann '000           59             151          167            189            207            223           239           252            254
Calf starter, 20,000 won/calf,            -            540           460           520             580           640            660           720            720
won '000
Total Feed  Cost,  on '000              1915           6259          7859          8197            9171         10079          10691         11276          11406
/1   Per cent parameters applied to figures at the beginning of the year.
/2   Heifers sold until year 7 are culls.  Thereafter, culls which are included in heifer sales are shown in parenthesis.  Good heifers are sold
to keep the size of the herd within feasible limits.
/3   Sales include all surviving males and 16% of surviving heifers.
74   Animal units calculated as follows: sum of the average number of cows at the beginning and the end of the year + 707. of the average of heifers
at the beginning and the end of the year + 30% of calves at the end of the year.
/5   Cattle are sold at the following prices: 255,000 won per cull cow; 200,000 won per cull heifer; 350,000Won per good heifer; and 47,000 won
per calf.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development- Model I: New 8 Cow Farm
Sales and OperatinR Costs
(Won'000)
----------------------------------- Years ----------------------------------           Foreign
Component
1        2                  4                  6         7        8       9-13          %
Sales
Milk 1/                              -      2592      2928     3132     3504      3816      4068     4344      4392
Cattle  /                           -        332      343       443      509       655       719      999      1104
Timber and Crop i/                 223       180       117      117      117        -         -        -
Farm Produce ]/                    120        60       60        60       60        60        60       60        60
Total                                3T3   31614    -3Z8     3752           1 9     4531         7       55503  6
Operating Costs
Labor:  Permanent  /                57       229      229       229      229       229       229      229       229
Casual V/                   -        176      176       176      176       170      223       223      223           -
Animal. Health and AI                21       76        71       89        97      105       113      119       120           3
Concentrate Feed l/                192       626      786       820      917      1008     1069      1128      1141          52
Crop Production  -/                  -        84       84        84       84        79        91       91        91          30
Pasture Maintenance                108       200      200       200      200       200      200       200       200          30
Pasture Renovation 2                          -         -        94        94       94        94       94        94          30
Fuel &Electricity                     8        8         8        8         8        8         8        8         8          60
Repairs and Maintenance
Buildings, Water Supply (2%)      37        37       37        37       37        37       37        37        37         10
Motorized Plant (10%)                33       33        33       33        33       33        33       33        33          50
Milk Cans and Coolers (5%)         ....        5        55                                     5        5         5          10
Sub-total                             459     1474      1629     1775      1880     1968      2102     21          81
Contingencies and
Insurance (10%)                     46       147      163       178      188       197      210       213       218
TOTAL                                505      1621      1792     1953     2068      2165      2312     2339      2399
Net Operating Income                 (162)    1543      1656     1799     2122      2366      2535     3064      3157
1/ From Table 2.
j/  Timber from cleared land in Year 1 and casherop from fodder cropland in Years 1 to 5.
3/ Farm produce obtained without any additional cost.
_/ Wage: won 19,100/month.
5/ The cost per hectare of casual labor is:  corn won 105,000; ryecorn won 43,400; barley won 52,700.
Won 6,300 per AU for aniuajl health and won 3,200 per cow for AI.
7/  Includes:  seeds: won 9,000/ha corn, won 8,000/ha ryecorn and won 6,600/ha barley; and
fertilizers:  won 26,600/ha corn, won 15,100/ha ryecorn, and won 18,300/ha barley.  The
cost of production in Year 1 is included in investment costs.
8/  Only includes fertilizers:  urea won 12,800/ha, pobash won 6,500/ha, phosphate won 11,500/ha.                                  w
9/  Pasture renovation:  fertilizers won 114,000/ha, seeds won 16,900/ha, tractor hire won 12,700/ha.
Note: Prices April 1975



KOREA
Second Integrated Dairy Development Project
Dairy Farm Development - Model I; New 8-Cow Farm
Cash Flows
(Won '000)
___________________--___--___--______------------ Years -------------------------------------------------~~
1          2           3          4           5          6           7           8          9         10-13
Inflows
Sales                                          343       3164        3448       3752        4190       4531        4847        5403       5556        5556
Subsidy                                       341         292          -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Long-term loan (1)  /                          107         91                -          -           -           -          -                 -          -
Long-term loan (2) ?/                         4729         40          -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Short-term loan                               1039        511          -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Farmer's contribution                         2159        130                      -          -           -          -                       -          -
Total                             8718        4228       3448        3752       4190        4531        4847       5403        5556        5556
Outflows
Investment costs                              7336        554          -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Operating costs                                505       1621        1792       1953        2068       2165        2312        2339       2399        2399
Total                             7841        2175       1792        1953       2068        2165        2312       2339        2399        2399
Cash balance before debt service                 877       2053        1656       1799        2122       2366        2535        3064       3157        3157
Debt Service
Long-term loan (1) outstanding                (107)      (198)       (198)      (198)       (172)       (143)      (112)        (78)        (41)        -
interest (9%)               10         18          18         18          15          13         19           7           4         -
amortization                -          -           -          26          29          31         34          37          41         -
Long-term loan (2) outstanding               (4729)     (4769)      (4769)     (4769)      (4181)      (3522)     (2785)      (1960)     (1035)         -
interest (12%)             567        572         572        572         502        423         334         235        124          -
amortization                -          -           -         588         659        737         825         925       1035          -
Short-term loan interest (12%)                  -         124          61         -           -            9         -           -          -           -
Short-term amortization                         -        1039         511         -           -          78                                 -           -
Debt service                                   577       1753        1162       1204        1205        1204       1203        1204       1204          -
Cash balance after debt service                  300        300         494        595         917       1162        1332        1860       1953        3157
Subsistence allowance                            300        300         300        300         300        350         350         350        350         350
liet income                                       _          _          194        295         617         612        982        1510       1603        2807
1/      NACF   loan for pasture establishment.
JACF   and IBRD loan for water-supply, buildings, plant and livestock.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development Model II : Existing Farm
Investment Costs
(Won '000)
Units        Units          Unit
in            in           Cost      Per Farm    Development Phasing    US  $                    Foreign        Exchange
I t e m                       Unit        Project 1*   Project II                  Cost          Year I    Year 3    equivalent              component      value equiv.
%_            US $
Pasture Establishment /1
Pasture                              ha           4             2            165.7      331.4          331.4        _          690                    11             76
Crop                                 ha            1            0.5          231.3      115.7          115.7        -          241                    11             27
Buildings
Cowbarn                              cow          8              -
Holding  yard and shelter            "             8             _
Silo                                               8             -
Haybarn                               2            8
Stockman housing                     m           20             -
Plant
Silage cutter                     unit             1             -
Water pump and motor                 "             1             -
Electric fence                       "             -            1             49        49             49         -            102                    20             20
Milk cans                                         4             4             10.2       40.8           20       20.8           85                    10              9
Pasture renovation /2                   ha            -             4            40        160            160          -          333                    30            100
Livestock L3                         head             5             3           474.4    1423.2          1423.2        -         2965                    90           2669
Subtotal                          -            -             -              -      2120.1         2099.3      20.8         4416                    62          2901
Contingencies 5%                        -             -             -              -       105.9          104.7      1.2          221                                 145
Total                             -            -             -              -      2226~-         2204        22           4637                    62         3046
Ll    Developed under Integrated Dairy/Beef Development Project I (Cr. 234-KO).
/2    Upgrading of existing pasture                                                                                                                                                L i
/3    18 month old pregnant heifers                                                                                                                                              m N
Note:  * Total on-farm investment costs for Project I averaged won 3,380,000 per farm



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development Model II; Existing Farm
(10 Units)
herd Protection
PROJECT I                                             6           7    PROJECT I AND PROJECT II
1   2   3   4                  5         6           7         8          ~~         ~~~        ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~9 10  11  12
Dairy cows on hand                       -           -          45         40                    47        51          81        80         87          93         96         97
Plus bred heifers                        -           50         -          15                    13        45          16        26         26          25         23         22
Total to calve                       -           50         45         55                    60        96           97       106        113        118        119
Less deaths 3% /I                                     1          1          2                     2         3           3         3          3           4          4          4
Less sales                              -             4          4          6                     7        12          14        16         17          18         18         18
Total end of year                    -           45         40         47                    51        81           80        87         93         96         97          97
New beifers    /2                        -           -          -          -                   ( 30)       -           -                               -           -          -
Heifers on hand                        50            -          17         14                    17        18          29        29         31          34         36         36
Less deaths 3% /1                        -           -           I          -                     1         1           1         1          1           1          1          1
Less sales /3                            -           -           I          I                     1         1           2         2      (2) 5    (3) 10        (3)13     (3) 13
Total end of year                   50           -          15         13                    45        16           26        26         25         23         22         22
Calves (lactations)                     _           45          38        44                    48         77          78        85         90         94         95          95
Less deaths 10% /                       -             4          4          4                     5         8           8         9          9          9          10         10
Less aales        /4                    _            24         20         23                    25        40          41        45         47         49          49         49
Total end of year                    -           17         14         17                    18        29           29        31         34         36         36         36
Total AUL5                         21           53         58         66                    82       109         117       125         133        138        139        139
Natality /I                              -           90         85         80                    80        80          80        80         80         80          80         80
Culling cows. %_                                      7          9         10                    12        12          14        15         15         15          15         15
1st lactation 3000/kg                   -          135          -         36                    30       108           39        63         60         60         54          53
2nd lactation 4000/kg                   -           -         152        128                   152       164          260       256        280        294        308        310
Total milk mt                       -           135        152        164                   182       272         299        319        340        354        362        363
Milk sales, won '000 /6                 _        10800      15960      19680                  21840    32640        35880    38280       40800      42480      43440      43560
Cattle sales: /7
Cows                                 -          940       1020       1530                   1785      3060       3570       4080      4335        4590       4590       4590
Heifers                              -           -         200        200                    200       200        400         400      1450       3050       4100       4100
Calves                               -          748        940       1081                   1175      1880       1927       2115      2209        2303       2303       2303
Totai won '000                           7        1688       2160        2811                   3160      5140       5897       6595      7994       9943      10993      10993
Concentrate:
Cows 1/3kg milk                      -           45         51         55                    61        91         100       106         113        118        121        121
Heifers 2kg/day                     18           -          12         10                    23        12           20        20         20         21         21         21
Calves 1.5kg/day                     -            9          8          9                    10        16          16         17         19         20         20         20
Total mt                            18           54         71         74                    94       1l9         136       143         152        159        162        162
Concentrate Cost, won '000 a8         630         2160       3905       4736                  6016      7616        8704       9152       9728      10176      10368      10368
Minerals won '000 /9                   32            80         87        119                   148       196         211       225        239        248         250        250
Calf starter won '000 /10               -          272         224       340                   360       580          580       620        680        720        720        720
Total feed eost won '000              680        2512        4216       5195                  6524      8392         9495      9997      10647      11144      11338      11338
LI Per cent parameters are applied to figures at the beginning of the year.
L2 New heifers added to existing farms (3 head per farm) in year 5 of farm development.
/3 Heifers sold until year 8 are culls.  Thereafter, culls which are included in heifer sales are shown in parentheses.  Good heifers are sold to
keep the size of the herd within feasible limits.
/4 Sales include all surviving males and 16% of surviving heifers.
75 Animal units calculated as follows: sum of average of cows at the beginnisg and end of the year + 7071 of average of heifers at the beginning and
end of year + 30% of calves at end of year.
/6 Price of milk: 70 won/kg in 1972; 80 won/kg in 1973; 105 won/kg in 1974; 120 won/kg in 1975 and thereafter.                                                                         of><
77 Cattle are sold at the following prices: cIll cow 225000 won in 1972; 235000 won in 1973; 255000 won in 1974 and thereafter; rull heifers 180.OCO.wor. in 1972;                     o,r
185000 won in 1973; 200000 won in 1974ad thereafter good heifers 350000 won; calves 44000 won in 1973, 47000 won in 1974 and thereafter.
/8 Concentrate costs 35 won/kg in 1972, 40 won/kg in 1973, 55 won/kg in 1974;' 64 won/kg in 1975 and thereafter.
/9 1500 won/AU from 1972-1974 and 1800 won/AU thereafter.
L1016000 won/calf from 1972-1974 and 20000 won/calf thereafter.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development - Model II: Existing Farm
Sales and Operating Cost
(Won '000)
Foreign
PROJECT I                                                           PROJECT I and PROJECT II                                        Component
1        2          3           4                 5        6         7          8          9           10           it            12-13 
Sales
Milk /1                                     -      1,080      1,596        1,968            2,184    3,264    3,588    3,828          4,080       4,248         4,344          4,356
Cattle  /1                                  -        169        216          281              316       514       590       660         799         994         1,099         1,099
Timber and cash crop /2                     95       -          -            -                170       117       117       -           -           -             -              -
Farm produce /3                             90       100        100          100                60       60        60        60          60          60            60             60
Total                                  185    1,349      1,912        2,349             2,730    3,955    4,355    4,548         4,939       5,302          5,503         5,515
Operating Costs
Labor:  Permanent  4                       144       180        216          229              229       229       229       229         229         229           229            229
Casual   6                         137      125        132          140               176       176      176       170         223         223            223           223
Animal health and AI d6                     10        38         41           59                68        95       99       107         114         118           119            119              3
Concentrate feed  L                         68       251        422          519              652       839       949    1,000        1,065       1,114         1,134         1,134              52
Crop Production /7                          32        36         36           59               84        84        84        79          91          91            91             91             30
Pasture maintenance /8                      63        71         71          123              185       185       185       185         185         185           185            185             30
Pasture renovation /9                         -      -          -            -                 -        -         -          87          87          87             87            87             30
Fuel and electricity                         4         4          6            7                 8        8         8         8           8           8              8             8             60
Repairs and Maintenance
Buildings, water supply (27.)               17        17         17           17                18       18        18        18          18          18             18            18             10
Motorized plant (10%,)                      24        24         24           24                24        24       24        24          24          24             24            24             50
Milk cans and coolers (5%)                    2        2          2            2                 3         3        4         4           4           4              4             4             10
Sub-Total                              501       748        967       1.179             1,447    1,661    1, 776    1,911        2,048       2,101          2,122         2,122
Contingencies and insurance (10%)           50        75         97          118              145       166       178       191         205         210           212            212
Total                                  551       823     1,064        1,297             1,592    1,827    1,954    2,102         2, 253      2,311          2,334         2,334
Net Operating Income                          (366)     526        848        1,052             1,138    2.128    2.401    2.446         2,686       2,991          3,169         3,181
NOTE:   Years I to 4 are previous Project years; years 5-13 are projected in current 1975 prices.
/   From Table 6
2   Timber from cleared land (Sha) in Year-I and In Year-5 (2.5 ha).  Barley from half ha   of cropland  in Years 5-7.
/3  Farm produce estimated at 90,000 won in 1972, 100,000 won in 1973 and 1974 and 60,000 thereafter.
/4   Wage 12,000 won/month in Year-I; 15,000 won/month in Year-2, and 18,000 won/month in 1974  19,100 won/month in 1975 and thereafter.
/5   Cost per ha of casual labor:  corn: 105,000 won; ryecorn 43,400; barley 52,700.  The costs for 1972 and 1973 are 10%
and 5% respectively lower than the above costs.
/6   Animal health 6,300 won per AU and Al 3,200 won/cow.  Costs for 1972 are 10% lower, and for 1973 8% lower and for 1974 6%7
lower than 1975 levels.
/7  Includes:  seeds: 9,000 won/ha corn; 8,000 won/ha ryecorn and 6,600 won/ha barley; fertilizer 26,600 won/ha corn; 15,100 won/ha
ryecorn and 18,300 won/ha barley. Costs for 1972 are 10% lower, for 1973 8% lower and for 1974 are 6% lower than 1975 levels.
/8  Only includes fertilizers: urea 12,800 won/ha; potash 6,500 won/ha, phosphatell,500 won/ha. in 1975.  In 1974 the costs were:
urea: 13,650 won/ha; potash 2,400 won/ha; phosphate 5,600 won/ha.  Costs in 1972 and 1973 were 10% and 5% lower respectively than 1974 costs.
/9  Includes: fertilizers 14,000 won/ha- seeds 16,900 won/ha; no pasture renovation required years 5,6 and
7 due to investment in year 5 for pasture establishment and renovation of project 1 pastures
(See Table 5).



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development - Model II: Existing Farm
Cash Flows
(Won '000)
PROJECT I                                                          PROJECT I AND PROJECT II
1         2          3          4              5          6          7          8          9           10          11          12          13
Inflows
Sales 1/                                       185       1349       1912       2349          2730       3955       4355       4548       4939         5302        5503        5515         5515
Subsidy 2/                                     488         -          -          -            195         -          -           -          -           -           -            -           -
Long-term loan Project I 3/                   1892         -          -          -             -           -          -          -          -           -           -            -           _
Long-term loan Project II 4/                    -          -          -          -           1372          -          15         -          -           -           -            -           -
Short-term loan 5/                             728        654        275         -             -          -          -           -          -           -           -            -           _
Farmer's contribution                         1000         -          -          -            637          -           7         -          -           -           -            -           -
Total                                 4293       2003       2017       2349           4949       3955       4377       4548       4939        5302         5503        5515        5515
Outflows
Investment costs 6/                           3380         -          -          -           2204         -          22          -          -           -           -            -           -
Operating costs 1/                             551        823       1064       1297          1592       1827       1954       2102        2253        2311        2334        2334         2334
Total                                 3931        823       1064       1297           3796       1827       1976       2102       2253        2311         2334        2334        2334
Cash balance before debt service                 362       1180        953       1052          1153       2128       2401       2446        2686        2991        3169         3181        3181
Debt Service
Long-term loan I outstanding 7/              (1892)     (1892)    (1892)    (1892)          (1642)     (1368)     (1070)       (744)      (389)
Long-term loan I interest 9%                   170        170        170        170           148        123         96          67         35
Long-term loan I amortization                   -          -          -         250           274        298        326        355         389
Long-term loan II outstanding 12% 8/                                                        (1311)     (1311)     (1311)     (1326)      (1163)       (981)       (776)        (546)       (289)
Long-term loan II interest 12%                                                                157        157        157        159         140         117          93           66          35
Long-term loan II amortization 12%                                                             -           -          -         163        182         205         230          257         289
Long-term loan II outstanding 9% 9/                                                           (61)        (61)      (61)        (61)       (53)        (44)        (34)         (24)        (13)
Long-term loan II interest 9%                                                                   5           5         5           5          5           4            3           2           1
Long-term loan II amortization 9%                                                              -           -          -           8          9          10          10           11          13
Short-term loan outstanding                               728        654        275            -          -          -           -          -           -           -            -           -
Short-term loan interest 9%                                66         59         25            -          -          -           -          -           -           -            -           -
Total Debt Service                     170        964        883        720            584        583        584        757        760          336         336         336         338
Cash balance after Debt Service                  192        216        240        332           569       1545       1817        1689       2386        2655        2833         2831        2843
Subsistence allowance                            192        216        240        300            300        300        300        300        300         350          350         350         350
Net Income                                        -          -          -          32            260       1245       1517       1389       2086        2305        2483         2481        2493
1/ From Table 7.
2/  Subsidy for pasture establishment in 1972 was 122000 won/ha (86000 won from Central Government and 36000 won from Local Government), and in Year 5 (Year 1 of Project II)
97400 won/ha.
3/ Loan financed with IDA funds under Project I.
4/  Includes Government loan of 30500 won/ha for pasture establishment and IBRD Government loan for 70% of costs of livestock and pasture renovation (Year 5).
5/  One-year loan provided by Project I funds, and KDBC.
6/  From Table 5.                                                                                                                                                                                    M
7/  Project I loan has 9 year repayment period, including 3 years grace during which only interest is paid.   Interest rate 9%.                                                                     X >
8/ Project II loan for buildings, water supply, plant and livestock has a 9 year repayment period including 3 years grace during which only interest is paid.
Interest rate 12%.
9/  Project II loan for pasture establishment has a 9 year repayment period including 3 years grace during which only interest is paid.  Interest rate 9%.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Development
Financial Rates of Return
(Won '000)
Years of Development for Prolect II
1          2         3          4          5          6          7        8          9         10        11         12         13
Model I:
Farm sales                               343       3164      3448        3752       4190      4531       4847      5403      5556       5556       5556       5556      5556
Value of herd                             -                -         -           -         -               -         -         -          -          -          -
Operating costs                         (459)    (1474)    (1629)       (1775)    (1880)    (1968)    (2102)   (2126)    (2181)    (2181)    (2181)    (2181)    (21B1)
Investment costs /1                    (7336)      (554)       -           -          -          -         -         -          -         -          -          -          -
Long term interest                        -           -        -         (825)      (721)    (603)       (473)    (328)       (165)
Short term interest                       -                   ((550 -      -         (25)      (15       (         (         (
I?amily Labor                           (300)      (300)      (300)      (300)      (300)    (350)       (350)    (350)       (350)    (350       (350        (350)      (3k)
Balance                             (7752)       781      1519         852      1264      1595        1922     2599       2860      3025       3025        3025      bLi64
Rate of return:                      20%
If benefits increase 10o%:           31%
If benefits decrease 10%:             6%
Model II : Marginal Benefits and Costs
due to Project II
Farm sales                               202        961      1230        1535       1926      2289       2490      2502      2502       2502       2502       2502       2502
Value of herd                             -           -        -           -          -         -          -         -         -          -          -          -       1314
Operating costs                         (115)      (390)     (395)       (558)      (709)      (767)     (790)    (790)      (790)      (790)      (790)      (790)      (790)
Investment costs /1                    (2204)         -        (22)        -          -          -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -
Long.term interest                        -           -        -         (233)      (204)      (170)     (133)      (92)       (45)
Short term interest                      (18)         -        -           -          -         -          -         -         -          -          -          -          -
Family Labor                            (300)      (300)     (300)       (300)      (300)     (350)      (350)    (350)      (350)      (350)      (350)      (350)      (350)
Balance                             (2435)       271        513        444        713      1052       1217     1270       1317       1362       1362      1362       2676
Rate of return :                     28%
If benefits increase 10% :           42%
If benefits decrease 10% :           13%
/1   Net of subsidies



ANNEX 5
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PRO.LCT
Financial Analyses - Milk Processing Plants
A. Summary
1.        Financial rates of return for the proposed dairy processing
components are excellent, as summarized in the following:
Processing Facility                          Rate of Return
If Incomes  If Incomes
Best Estimates   Increase    Decrease
10%    25%  10%    25%
Central Plant Extension              37%        54%    74%  12%    neg.
Honam Plant Expansion                31%        78%   100%  neg.   neg.
Yeongnam Plant                       37%        53%    74%  16%    neg.
Sensitivity analysis of the proposed returns from processing was made at 10%
and 25%, both increases and decreases to income of the three plants.  A maxi-
mum range for fluctuation in income to total plant costs in Korea is likely
to be 10%. Decreases of 10% to total sales do not seriously affect the
total return on invested capital. Decreases of 25% in income would mean
that plants would have negative rates of return, but a 25% margin of flexi-
bility is highly unlikely.
B.   Methodology
2.        The parameters used in calculating the income and costs of the
expansion projects at Honam and Central, and the frozen milk products plant
at Yeongnam are itemized below. The underlying principle to the benefit
and cost structures of the processing components was the forecast of raw
milk production from farms in Project II described in Annex 4. All prices
used for projection were based on April 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.    Analysis
(i) Income
3.        Yeongnam Plant.  The proportion of ingredients used in the analysis
for the production of frozen milk products was as follows: 100 mt of raw
milk requires 5.75 mt whole milk powder, 4.59 mt anhydrous butter fat,
11.48 mt stabilizer, and 0.23 mt miscellaneous inputs. For every 1.0 mt of
raw milk with this recipe, 1.11 mt of frozen milk products are produced.
The specific gravity assumed for calculations was 0.65 and the price per
ton of ice cream was as 767,100 won. Further details of the Yeongnam plant
are contained in Table 2 of this annex.
4.        Central Plant.  Projections of Project II income from the Central
plant assumed equal proportion of raw milk used to produce baby milk powder
and powdered coffee creamer. Prices used for products were:
670 won per 500 gram can baby milk powder
1-400 won per kg skim milk powder by-product
2000 won per kg powdered coffee creamer.
The Central plant also produces whole milk powder with an average sales
value of 1,500 won per kg. For the purposes of analysis it was assumed that
Project II milk would be allocated to powdered coffee creamer and baby milk
powder, while Project I milk would continue to be used fox the production
of whole milk powder and baby milk powder.  Every 1,000 mt of raw milk
produces 333 mt of baby milk powder in the revised formula now used by KDBC.
Every 1,000 mt of raw milk used for powdered coffee creamer produced 132
mt of the finished product and 145 mt of skim milk powder as a by-product.
Further details of the Central plant are in Table 3 of this annex.
5.        Honam Plant.  Equal production of 200 cc Tetrapack and 500 cc brick
packs was assumed for processing Project II raw milk. The normal 2% loss
in quantity of milk produced was accounted for in extrapolating from the
raw milk flow. The ex-factory prices used for Honam products were:
50 won per pack of 200 cc
120 won per brick of 500 cc
Details of the Honam Plant are in Table 4 of this annex.
(ii) Inputs



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Yeongnam Plant.  The following unit prices for inputs were used in
the projections for ice cream production:
Input                     Unit Price Per mt
('000 won)
Raw Milk                               120
Whole Milk Powder                    1,500
Fat                                    900
Sugar                                  394
Dextrose                               166
Stabilizer                           1,400
Miscellaneous                        4,000
Ice cream would be produced in bars (60% of total production), cones (23%),
cups (13%), and family packs (4%). These have volumes of 60, 90, 100 and
400 cc respectively. In proportion to total production, total packing cost
for 1 mt of ice cream would be 111,000 won.
7.        Central Plant.  The material costs for the principal inputs in
baby milk powder are based on a patented formula. Some of the costs are
detailed below:
Baby Milk Powder    Unit Cost       Amount
1 mt Basis         '000 won     '000 won
Vegetable Fat                  125               900         112,500
Sucrose                         23.5             183           4,300
Lactose                        166.5             360          59,940
Protein Powder                 180               680         122,400
Sugar                          130               394          51,220
Imported materials cost 232,000 won for every 1 mt of baby milk powder
produced. Local materials in the production of 1 mt of this powder cost
approximately 386,000 won. Of the local costs, packing materials comprise
51%.
8.        Cost analysis for powdered coffee creamer was also based on a
patented formula. The principle input costs were raw milk valued at 120
won per liter and lactose at 510 won per kg. Skim milk powder was valued
at 1,400 won per kg. Packing costs were 320 won per kg for glass bottle
packs and 240 won per kg for paper sachets. The distribution of production
per pack was 80% bottles and 20% pouch.
9.        lionam:  Primary inputs were raw milk (120 won per liter) and
specialized paper for sterilized packing. Paper cost is approximately 8.2
won per Tetrapack and 18.5 won per Tetrabrick, both including duties and
commodity tax. The duty on packing paper is 50% and the commodity tax is
5%.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
10.       Wages and Salaries.  Wages and salaries for the Honam and Central
plant expansions, as part of operating expenses, were calculated by taking
the same proportion of these costs to total output when wages and salaries
are projected for both Project I and Project II milk flows. Yeongnam wages
and salaries were based solely on the number of employrees required to operate
the plant. All calculations were made from March 197T salary levels.
Unit Wage
Grade                                Per Month
(won)
Laborers                                        30,000
Technicians                                     65,000
Employees (5th gr.)                             60,000
Employees (4th gr.)                             80,000
Employees (2nd gr.)                            130,000
Plant office salaries are also based on March 1975 pay scales and are included
in operating expenses as are bonuses and reserves for retirement. KDBC
home office salaries, with the exception of expatriate staff which are
allocated to 'Management and Technical Services', are included in overhead
costs for each plant and amount to one-third of plant wages and salaries.
11.       Taxes.  The primary tax on net profit of each plant is the 40%
Korean Corporation tax. The actual tax basis for KDBC is total sales minus
total costs x 40% less 600,000 won. Other taxes applied in the analysis were:
(a) property tax of 3% of the plant and buildings and 2% on the cost of land.
These taxes applied to all plants, are part of overheads in the financial
rate of return; (b) License Tax and Stamp Charge 360,000 won at Honam plant.
12.       Collection Centers (Honam and Central).  The cost savings on col-
lection centers is estimated to be 1.5 won per liter of milk at 5 mt per
day collected. The projections for operating costs of a collection center
in constant prices are:
Operation of Collection Center
(1975 thousand won)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Labor                 3,401   4,475   4,475   4,475   5,370   5,370   5,370
Fuel and Power        1,368   1,642   1,916   1,916   2,190   2,190   2,464
Maintenance
& Repairs           2,121   2,121   2,121   2,121   2,121   2,121   2,121
Insurance               317      317     317      317     317      317     317
Overheads             1,134   1,492   1,492   1,790   1.790   1,790   1,790
Sub-total          8,341  10,047  10,321  10,321  11,788  11,788  12,062
Tanker Operation      3,011   3,120   3,175   1,302   3,230   3,257   3,285
TOTAL           11,352  13,167  13,496  13,524  15,018  15,045  15,347



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Tanker Operation was based on 1 run per day of 150 km (70 won per km with a
full tanker). Collection vehicle costs are shown separately for the Yeongnam
plant and are part of factory overheads at the Honam and Central plants.
(iii) Investment Costs
13.       Investment costs were based on March 1975 prices.  A price
contingency of 36% based on a projected inflation index has been included
in total Project cost. For the rate of return calculation, neither the
price contingency nor physical contingency of 10% have been included in
investment costs. Working capital, however, has been included in these
costs. The estimated needs of plant working capital are as follows: 462
million won spread over 3 years at the Yeongnam plant; 75 million won over
2 years at the Honam plant and 262 million won over 2 years at the Central
plant. Working capital in all three plants is based on KDBC stocking require-
ments of primary inputs, forward allowances made for seasonal variations, and
stocking requirements of finished products. Table 5 of this annex includes
the phasing of working capital requirements and assumptions used in calcula-
tions. The IBRD would finance 62% of the total working capital requirement
in the proposed project (about 496 million won or US$1.03).
14.       The phasing of investment costs for the expansion of the existing
plants and the new plant at Yeongnam are summarized in Table 1 of this annex.
Excluding contingencies and working capital, plant investments total 2.3
billion won (US$4.8 million). Year 1 represents the disbursements expected
in November-December, 1975, about 8% of the total. About 70% of plant
investments are phased in year 2, the first complete year of Project dis-
bursements. The high percentage of capital for 1976 is a result of the
necessity to plan, construct, and begin operation of the Yeongnam plant for
the summer season in 1977.



ANNEX 5
Table I
RWBULIC OF tOrn
SDCOID tOrn DAIRY  TEPMIO          PSD8JCT
Dieburwe_4t Sehsdale for Lin Prooesins
(Million Woo)
Tear     1        2        3        4         5
1275     1976     1977     1978     1979        Total      L
Y onnan. Plant
Land                     28.0       -                                     28.0         -
Civil Works                -      52.0                                    52.0       49
Waste Watr Treatment    -_         54.4               _        _          5           4
Sub-total            28.0    106.4                                   134.4       38
milk HRecption           -       8.2                                     8.2       49
Ice Cream Procesaing     -      34.6                                    34.6       49
Freezer Store IC.        -      59.8                                    59.8       49
General Storage          -      33.1                                    33.1       48
Utilities                -      23.5                                    23.5        48
Laboratory               -       6.1                                     6.1       h9
Offieo                   -        8.8                                     8.8       49
Garage Workshop         5.6      5.6                                    11.2       48
Staff Hostel/
Focilities            9.8     11.3    __          __                  21.1       48
Sub-total            15.4                                            206.4       49
louiPnt & MachinerY
Evaporator               -      20.9                 -                  20.9       80
Milk Ree ption           -      60.7                 -                  60.7       57
Ice Crem Proceaeing/
Packing                -     497.3               80.9                578.2       86
Refrigeration            -     245.2               53.8                299.0       86
Otber Utilities          -      66.o                 -                  66.o       51
Workshop               14.6        -                 -                  14.6       73
Spare Parte              -      40.2                 -                  40.2       92
Laboratory               -      11.8                 -                  11.8       92
Offices                 0.5      1.5                 -                   2.0         -
Nilk Separator           -      18.2                 -                  18.2       92
Electric Generator       -      22.9      __ _-                         22.9       92
Sub-total            15.1    984.7              134.7               1134.5       82
Cooling Depots            6.8     13.5      6.8                           27.1       47
Deeism & Supervision
Process Plant          10.9     20.3                                    31.2       55
Utilities, Waste
Treatment             5.4     15.3                                    20.7       48
Bilding, Civil Works 5-j        _70        _        -        -          12.5       49
Sub-total            21.8     42.6                                    64.4       52
._____ ...   __ _. --  ---
Installation
Process Plant                   52.5                9.3                 61.8       49
Utilities & Waste
Treatent              -                  -       12.0       _         41.3       49
Sub-total                     81.8               21.3                103.1       49
Vehicles
4.5 Ton Refrigerated                      19.8     13.3      28.5       61.6       89
4.5 Ton Collection                       14-1       4.8      18.6       37.5       89
Sub-total                              33.9      18.1      47.1       y9.]       89
TOTAL e          87.1   112.0     40.7    174.1       4-.1      17e9.0      73
Ronom  Plant
Hon_s Exansion
Sterilizing Gear                  -       19.9                           19.9      81
10 Ton Tanker                     -      18.9                            18.9      89
Cooling Depota (18)              9.8      9.7                            19.5      47
Collection Center                 -      74.2                            74.2      49
Milk Separator          _       18.2     _18_ 8.2                                  92
TTAL  *                   28.0   122.7                            150.7      63
Jinri Plant
Jinci knaneion
Waste Water Treatment                     65.0                           65.0      92
Mllk Separator                  18.2                                     18.2      92
Electric Generator              22.9                                     22.9      92
Cooling Centers (7)              7.6                                      7.6      47
Collection Center               75.8                                     75.8      61
10 Ton Tanker                   18.9                                     18.9      89
Evaporator Expansion            36.7                                     36.7      63
Condensed Milk
Evaporator                             46.6                            46.6      63
Crap Proceas Plant    92.6        _                                      92.6      7l
TOTAL   *        92.6   180.1    111.6                            384.3      73
GRMND TOTAL     179.7   1628.1   275.0    174.1       47.1        4308.0     71
U5 $ Equivalent      -            80million
* Rxcludes contingencies and working capital
Notes Subject to loan effectivones, 1975 dibwrsenent will b  carried over tO 1976



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEONCNAM PROCESSING PLANT
(Won '000)
1975          1976           1977           1978           1979           1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985           1986            1987
SALES: FROZEN MILRC PRODUCTS
Quantjyy Produced - MT                              -             -           2,200          4,662          7,326          7,992          8,880          9,657         10,323         10,656         11,100         11,100         11,100
Sales-                                              -             -       1,703,000      3,576,300      5,619,900     6,130,800      6,812,000      7,408,100       7,919,000      8,174,400      8,515.000      8,515,000      8,515,000
PROCESSING EXPENSES
Inputs
Quantity Raw Milk   M MT                           _              _           2,000          4,200          6,600          7,200          8,000          8,700          9,300          9,600         10,000         10,000         10,00
Cact2-                                                                      240,000        504,000        792,000        864,000       960,000      1,040,000       1,116,000      1,152,000      1,200,000      1,200,000      1,200,000
QuantIty Whole Milk Powder - MT                     -             -             115            241            379            414            460            500            535            552            575            575            575
Co3t2/              M    i-                                                 172,500        362,300        569,300        621,000       690,000        750,500         802,200        828,000        862,500        862,500        862,500
Foreign 8ubsidiary Materialn4                      _                        273,120        573,600        901,320        983,280     1.092,480      1,188,120       1.269,960      1,311,000      1,365,600      1,365,600      1,365,600
Total Pri=nry Inputs                        -              _         68,.620      1.439,900     2,262,620      2,468,280      2,742,480      2,978.620      3,188,160      3,291,000      3.428,100       3,428,100     3.428.1100
Operotine Costa
Packing Coats                                       -              -        272,745        572,820        900,114        981,882     1,090,980      1,186,413       1,268,292      1,309,176      1,363,725       1,363,725    1,363,725
Salaries and Wages                                 -              -          61,645         62,125         72,925         84,805        86,845         92,782          93,983         96,383         96,383          96,383        96.383
Vehicle Operation                                                 _           5,250         11,025         13,125         15,120         16,800         18,270         19,530         20,160         21,000          21,000        21,000
Maintenance nad Repairs                             -             -          22,321         22,321         22,321         32,463         32,463         32,463         32,463         32,463         32,463          32,463        32,463
Factory Overheads                                   -             _          71.316         89,460        112.266        122.346        129,024       141.498         148,302        148,428        148,554         148,554       148,554
Sub-total                                       _              -         433,277        757,751     1,120,751      1,236,616      1,356,112      1,471,426      1,562,570      1,606,610       1,662,125       1,662,125    1,662,125
Overheads5/                                                   111,000       379,348        539,609        609,305        630,361       652,940        674,217         691,017        700,116        711,016         711,016       711,016
Aecuealatitn Depot Costs                                           -            600          2, 200         2800           2,800         j2,800          2800           2,800 22800                 2,800             2_800         22800
TOTAL PROCTSSIING EXPERSES                                11,000    1,498,845        2,739,460      3,995,476     4,338,057      4,754,332      5,127,063      5,444,547      5,600,526      5,804,041        5,804,041    5,804,041
Grosa Profit/toes                                  -         -111,000       204,155        836,840      1,624,424      1,792,743     2,057,668      2,281,037       2,474,453      2,573,874      2,710,959       2,710,959    2,710,959
Leas:  Corparation Tos                                         -          81,662        334,736        649,770       717,097        823,067        912,415        989,781       1,029,550      1,084,384       1,084,384    1,084,384
NET PROFIT/LODS                                    -         -111,000       12,493        502,104        974,654      1,075,646     1,234,601      1,368,622       1,484,672      1,544,324      1,626,575       1,626,575    1,626,575
INVESTMENTS
Land snd Civil Works                            80,000          54,400
Buildings                                       15,400         191,000
Equipment and Machines                          15,100         984,700        -            134,700
25 Acc.-ulation Depots                             -             5,430       16,240          5,430
Design and Supenisian                           21,800          42,600
Installation                                       -            81,800        -             21,300
Vehicles!/                                         -              -          33,900         18,100         10,602                        1 00,602       33,900         21,204         10,602          _              10,602        33,900
Workieg Capital                                     -             -         162,000        150,000        150,000
TOTAL INVESTMRENT COSTS                   132,300       1,359,930      212,140        329,530        160,602           -           10,602         33,900         21,204         10,602          -               10,602        33,900
RESIDUAL VALUE                                      -             -           -              -              -                -              -              -              -              -            -                 -         463,327
Cash Fla          I                           -132,300      -1,470,930       -89,647       172,574        814,052      1,075,646     1,223,999       1,334,722      1,463,468      1,533,722      1,626,575       1,615,973    2,056,002
Financial Rate of Return   377
Sensitivity
If, benefits increase I00, ROR = 531.
If benefit. inceas. 100%, RnR   16,
1/ Price of ice-cream 767,100 son/MT, based am specific gravity of ice-cream  t0,6
N/ Price of raw milk 120 wan/kg.
3/ Price of vhols milk powder 1,500,000 won per MT.
4/ Duties account for 15% of the cost.
5/ Overheads include selling expenses, business and local taxes, snd a proportion of hone office salories and wages.
6/ Incladee anly rsfrigsratinm and delivery vehicles.
Nots: Subject to loen effectiveneas, 1975 investments will be carried over to early 1976.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
KOREA
SECOND IRRIGATED DAIRY DOEVLOPMKNT PROJECT
CR1TAL DISTRICT PROCESEING PLANT
(Won 000)
1975        1976         1977         1978        1979        1980         1981         1982         1983        1984       1985        1956        1987
SALIs
quantity MT Pakb  Milk Powder                                                  260         577        1,099        1,247        1, ul        1,614        1.696        1,813       1,6        1,034       1,834
Sales Total   1/                                                       948,400    773,185   1,471,660   1.870,998   1,971,I7.4   2,182,270   2,272,640   2,429,420  2,4?7,467  2,4;,560  2,457,560
quantity MT Coffee Creamer                                                       66        146          279          317          373          410          431          460         492         666        466
Salee Total  V2                                                        132,000    292,000       558,000      634.000      746.000      820.000     867.00n      920,000    924K   0     9' .0CC0    9137000
Qoantitvy  T Skim Milk Powder, -             3/                                  26          58          112         127          149          164          172          184         155         186         186
Sales Total                                                             36,400      81,200      156,800      177,800      208,600     229,600      240,800      257,600    29,700G    262,400    260,400
Q...tity MT Butterfat 8ave/                                                       4           9          17           19           23           25           26           28          '.          28         28
Cast S-inge                                                              3,600       8,100       15,300       17.100       20,700      22,500       23,400       25,200      25,200      2.,200      25,208
TOTAL ETIVENUE                                                              _04    1              2.28 2.760   2.499.880   2.946,440   3.234,370   3,396.840                  3,645,660  3,675'160 3,675.160
PROCESSING 0ENG ES
Quantity Ro YMilk MT                                                         1,000       2,217        4,225        4,794        5,655        6,206       6,518         6,968      6,994       7.051       7,051
Cost_/                                                                     120,000    266,040       507.000      575,280      678,600      744,720      782,160     836,160    839,280    846 120    946,120
Imported Subsidiary Material                                                60,352    133,823       255,108      289,565      341,356      374,716      393,794     420,786    422,292    425,820    425,820
Dueter                                                                      18,393      40,797       77,745       88,233      104,042      114,188      119,996      128,243    128.688    129,756    129,756
Local Subsidiary Maturial                                                  143,119    317,407       605.203      686,875      809.410      888,655      933,975     997.599    999,175  1,009,553  1,009,553
sOb-total                                                               341,864    758,067   1,445,056   1,639,953   1,933,408   2,122,279   2,229,925   2,382,788  2,389,435  2,411,249  2,411,249
operoatig  Cost&_/                                                          64,320      92,141      114,020      124,197      139,491      164,444      170,064      178,036    178,514    179,559    179.559
OirtkehdaZ/                                                                 28,245      60,597       98,855      111,842      131,625      143,514      151,443      161,802    162,356    163,674    163,674
Qpetation uf  Culloction Ceeter                                             11,353      13,167       13,496       13,524       15,018       15,045       15,347       15,347     15,347      15,347      15,347
opeation of Cooling Inputs                                       330           770         770          770          770          770          770          770          770         770        770         770
Sub-t,otl                                                     350       104,688    166,675       227,141      250,333      286,904     323,773      337,624      355,955    356,987    359.350    359,550
TOTAL PROCESSOOG  9XPE5SES                                          350       446.552    924.742   1.672.097   1,090,286   2.220.312   2,446,052   2.567,549   2.738,243  2746422  2.77,59 2770599
Deuce PoofiLu,s                                                    -350        '1,848    229,738      530,563      609,594      726,128       798,318      831,291     893,477    899,238    904.561    904,561
Less:  Corporatlon   Too                                          -        29,539      91,895      212.225      243,838      290.451       3L5,327      332,516    357,391    359,695    361,824    3624
SiT 700001/1A15                                                    -350        44,309    137,843      318,338      365,756      435,677      0472191       -S7,7       536,06    339,543    342,737    542,737
INVESTMENTS
Milk Separator                                                18,200
Ele,trtt  Gecorater                                           22,90-
E .aporetor Rxpansion                                         36,700
Milk  Evaporator                                                   -        . 500
Couling/At-tulotioo Depots                                     7,600
C1lleutieg Canter oad Tanker                                  94,700
Wuste Water Treatneut                                              -        65,00C
Coffee Coroner Poeteesiag                                     92,60             -
o-kicg Capital                                 140,000       122,000
TOTAL INV5STMENT COSTS                    140,000       394,705        _. S5c
RESIDUAL VALUE                                                                                                                                                                                             153,720
CA02  0IQ0                                       -             -395.050                                                                                    4870'    177,843  318,8  365.756  43,677  472,991   49a775 53,a 5 4 5437 696,457
Pinoatio1 Oats s Return 37%
no..it-city
00 benefits Goureese 107,, 008 = 54%.
If benefits deoresee lO, ROR = 12%.
1/  Boby powdet r ll te 7r±ted ot 67" Icr  n-c -yr 8 coe 00 1,340,080 woe per MT.
2/  Powdeced coffon cr-   t- 0 utudud i-             otle   and papeT sakhete -aSb the ah -rage ppift   per kg of 2,000 wo.
S/ Dki. milk pow-e- iS a   --o-d-ut of ct'          taer produtti-n. 0.4 ug of ekim milk powder ie rode untilobln for sale on other u-ea from eath 7.57 kg of raw milk
awed to produ-e the o,Ydo.d  -roomer.    75Cm milk powdor polue t-  7,455 wow per kK.
4/  The  -ast--aicge Cr, -uttaerfa  input coue.d -othoOed tone new uloyi9lodfwtamdardieer.   Thie sonic;- to assneed en rho additional .4% butteofat obtaieed f-o
ath kg of m'lk ularified, coined at  00 00  7CC kg.
5/ 120 -co pet liter ae is f-om budget _aluclut'.cne.
6/  pe.rating tostc inolude royalty to M-rio.og, -oges and nalorits,  aistensete asd rep-airs,  Eatory -cehkeads and nekitle operation.
7/  _cerheade Include preportioe af talaiee. w-eg-, od odnCuscat'.onenpeeees f-oa  home office, oad bkainess and local eases.
Noteo  Subjeot te loan effscti--e,wn, '975 -'u-5,g ctyTro  Rcct-.:ieg IBRD finanted start-up materials 6ill ke carried  --er to 1976.



ANNECX-
Table 4
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
Honan District Processing Ploat
Expanion Project
(Won '000)
1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986       1987
SALES: TETRAPACKED MILE
Quantity - MT (AT Packer)                         --        1,011      1,599       1,925       2,343      2,401       2,576       2,693       2,708      2,728       2,735       2,735
Sales 1                                          --     252,750    399,750    481,250    585,750    600,250    644,000    673,250    677,000    682,000    683,750    683,750
Quantity - MT (AB Packer)                         __        1,011      1,599       1,925       2,343      2,401       2,576       2,693       2,708      2,728       2,735       2,735
Sales 2/                                          --     242,640    383,760    462,000    562,320    576,240    618,240    646,320    649,920    654,720    656,400    656,400
Quantity - MT Butterfat Saved                     __            8          13         16          19          20         21          22          22          22         22          22
Cost - Savings                                    --       7,200      11,700      14,400      17,100     18,000      18,900      19,800      19,800     19,800      19,800      19,800
TOTAL REVENUE                                  --     502,590    795,210    957,650  1,165,170  1,194,490  1,281,140  1,339,370  1,346,720  1,356,520  1,359,950  1,359,950
PROCESSING EXPENSES
Inputs
Quantity, Raw Milk (MT)                           --        2,063      3,263       3,928       4,782      4,900       5,258       5,495       5,526      5,568       5,582       5,582
Cost 3/                                           --     247,560    391,560    471,360    573,840    588,000    630,960    659,400    663,120    668,160    669,840    669,840
Paper Excluding Duty                              --      63,388    100,257    120,697    146,905    150,543    161,515    168,850    169,791    171,045    171,485    171,485
Duties                                            --      31,694      50,128      60,349     73,453      75,271      80,758      84,425     84,896      85,523      85,743      85,743
Sub-total                                      --     342,642    541,945    652,406    794,198    813,814    873,232    912,675    917,807    924,728    927,068    927,068
Operating Costs3/                                 --      66,247      81,042    100,446    112,508    114,181    136,480    139,648    140,282    150,863    151,019    151,019
Overheads 5/                                      --      52,997      64,834      80,357      90,006     91,345    109,184    111,878    112,226    120,690    120,815    120,815
Collection Center Operation                       -_      11,352      13,167      13,496      13,524     15,018      15,045      15,347      15,347     15,347      15,347      15,347
Accussalation Centers                             --          990      1,980       1,980       1,980      1,980       1,980       1,980       1,980      1,980       1,980       1,980
Sob-total                                      --     131,586    161,023    196,279    218,018    222,524    262,689    269,053    269,835    288,880    289,161    289,161
TOTAL PROCESSING EXPENSES                     __      474,228    702,968    848,685  1,012,216  1,036,338  1,135,921  1,181,728  1,187,642  1,213,608  1,216,229  1,216,229
Gr.ss Profit/Lass                                    --      28,362      92,242    108,965    152,954    158,152    145,219    157,642    159,078    142,912    145,721    143,721
Less: Corp-ti.. T..   ~--                     11,345     36,696      43,586      61,181     63,261      58,088      63,057      63,631     57,165      57,488      57,488
Less: Corporation Tao                                     17,017      55,346     65,379      91,773      94,891     87,131      94,585      95,447      85,747     86,233      86,233
NsET PROFIT/Loss
PROJECT INVESTMENT COSTS
Collection Center and Tanker                      --      93,100
Accu-ulation Ceontars                           9,800       9,700
Sterilizing Gear                                  --      19,800
Milk Separator                                 18,200         --
Working Capital                                40,000      35,000
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                      68,000    157,600
RESIDUAL VALUE                                      --          --          --         --          --          --         --          --          --          --         --       28,884
CASH FLOW                                      - 68,000   -140,583      55,346      65,379      91,773     94,891      87,131      94,585      95,447     85,747      86,233    115,117
Financial Rate of Return - 3s2
Sensitivity
If benefits decrease 1O, ROR = negative.
If benefits increase  10%, ROR - 78%/,
1/ Price for 200cc sterilized   ilk carton is 50  -on or 250,000 won per MT.
2/  Price fer 500cc oterilized silk carton is 120 won or 240,000 woa  per MT.
3/ 120 won per liter was used as in fain budgets.
4/  Includes lease on tetrapack, vehicle operation, _aintenasce and repairs, wages and salaries and factory overheads.
5/  Includes proportion of wages, salaries, and adninistrative expenses froz ho-e offica, as veil as all selling erpssses and busIness and local Eases.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Working Capital Analysis
(Thousand Won)
1975                         1976                           1977                          1978                          1979                          TOTAL
Plant                 F,C      L.C      TOTAL       F.C      L.C      TOTAL       F.C       L.C     TOTAL       F.C       L.C     TOTAL       F.C       L.C      TOTAL       F.C      L.C      TOTAL
Yeonenam
Material Stock 1/            -        -                                               56,900      -       56,900   119,500       _    119,500   125,183        -     125,183   301,583       -      301,583
Forward Allowance 2/         -        _         _         _         _         _          -      51,630   51,630         -       _                         -             -          -       51,630   51,630
Product Stock 3/             -        -         -          -        -         -         -       53,470   53,470        -      30,500   30,500        -      24,817   24,817        -      108,787  108,787
Total                  _         _         _         _         _        _        56,900  105,100  162,000   119,500   30,500  150,000   125,183   24,817  150,000   301,583  160,417  462,000
Central
Material Stock 4/         51,400      -       51,400    68,017      -       68,017       -        -         -          -        -         -          -         -        -       119,417      -     119,417
Forward Allowance 5/        -       28,900   28,900       -         --                                                          -                                                  -       28,900   28,900
Product Stock 6/            -       59,700   59,700       -       53,983   53,983       -         -         -         -         -         -          -        -         -          -      113,683  113,683
Total                51,400   88,600  140,000    68,017   53,983  122,000          -         -        _-                                                           -      119,417  142,583  262,000
Honam
Material Stock 7/            -        -         -       40,000      -       40,000    35,000      -       35,000       -        -         -          -         _        -        75,000      -       75,000
Forward Allowance                                                         -        -         -          -             -         -              -                                        -              -
Product Stock                                                  -         -         -         -         -         -              -              -                                        -              -
Total                  -         -         -       40,000      -      40,000    35,000              35,000                                                         -       75,000      -       75,000
Total
Material Stock            51,400      -       51,400   108,017      -      108,017    91,900      -       91,900   119,500      -      119,500   125,183      -      125,183   496,000       -     496,000
Forward Allowance            -      28,900   28,900       -         -         -         -       51,630   51,630                 -              -          -             -          -       80,530   80,530
Product Stock               -       59,700   59,700       -       53,983   53,983       -       53,470   53,470       -       30,500   30,500        -      24,817   24,817        -      222,470  222,470
GRAND TOTAL          51,400   88,600  140,000   108,017   53,983  162,000    91,900  105,100  197,000   119,500   30,500  150,000   125,183   24,817  150,000   496,000  303,000  799,000
1/  Based on foreign material requirements - 1977, 1978:  for 3 months;  1979:  for 2 months;  Annex 2, Table 1.
2/  3% of Sales Amount in 1977;  Annex 2, Table 1
3/  Based on Production cost - 1977:  for 1 month;  1978:  for 6 days;  1979:  for 3 days;  Annex 2, Table 1.
4/  Based on KDBC yearly plan - 1975:  11% of material requirements (467,224 x 0.11) in Central Plant.
5/  10% of monthly Sales Amount in 1975 (289.000 x 10%) in Central Plant.
5/  Peak stock in 1975 in Central Plant.
7/  Based on foreign material required (based on 1975 plan) - 1977:  for 1 month in Honam Plant                                                        
Note: All 1975 working capital expenditures will be carried over to 1976.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Management Support
1.        Adequate implementation of the technical components of the Project
would require the use of internationally recruited specialists and employment
of additional Korea technical specialists and field extension staff in KDBC.
About 14 man years of internationally recruited specialist time, 21 man years
of Korean technical specialist support and 60 man years of field extension
work would be provided under the Project (Table 1). Farmer training pro-
grams would be extended under the Project and regular field days held in
each of the three mill producing areas for the first few years of the Project.
Table 1: Prolect Technical Support
-----------Project Year       
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
------N- Nuber of Man-Years--
Field extension officers         -      12     12     12      12    12
Technical Saecialists
Farm Records Analyst        1      1      1      1      1      -
Marketing                  -       1      1      1       1      1
Pasture Management         -       1      1      1      1       1
KDBC Financial Management  1       1      1      1       1      1
Internationally Recruited
Technical Specialists
Dairy Husbandry Specialist 1       1      1      1      -      -
Animal Health/Nutrition    -       1      1      -      -      -
Pasture Management          1      1      1      1      -      -
Milk Processing             1      1      1      1      -      -
2.        Costs. for proposed technical assistance and management support are
sunmmarized in lisle 2.  IBRD would disburse 85% of net of tax expenditures
to inciude emoluments, international travel, housing and research allowances
of the Dairy Husbandry, Animal Health/Nutrition, Pasture Management anci Dairy
Processing specialists; 85% of total expenditures for jeeps and motorcycles
and 85% of the cost of short-term consultant technical support in the latter
years of the Project. Remaining costs would be met by the spread of funds
from IBRD and NACF on-lent to farmers.



AXNEX 6
Page 2
Table 2: Technical Assistance and Management Support
Year of Disbursement
(Million won)
Category                       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Field extension officers         -       10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1
Technical specialists            4.8      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      7.2
Internationally recruited
technical specialists      86.4   115.2   115.2    86.4        -       -
Consultant support               -        -       -        -      57.6    28.8
Sub-Total                  91.2   134.9   134.9   106.1    77.3    46.1
Vehicles                         7.2      8.2     -        -       -        -
Training programs                6.2      5.8     5.8      -       -        -
Total ('000 won)               104.6   148.9   140.7   106.1    77.3    46.1
Total (US$)                  218,000  310,000 293,000 221,000  161,000  96,000
3.        From mid-1974, technical services in KDBC were decentralized to
give immediate responsibility for production and processing activities to
managers at the central factory and Honam plant.  Policy is decided by and
in consultation with department directors from the KDBC Head Office in Seoul.
The present distribution of personnel in KDBC Technical Services Department
is given in Table 3.
Table 3:  Distribution of KDBC Technical Services Department
Korean - New Zealand
Central        Honam          Demonstration Farm
Director                     1
Technical Specialists        2
Assistant Agronomists        1              1
Veterinarians                3              -                     1
Technicians
Farm Advisory           6              5                     2
Milk Quality            1              1                     -
Purchases               2              1                     1
Total                  18              8                     5
4.        To date, the technical services offered farmers by KDBC have been
inadequate.  At times there has been only one technician per 90 farms.  Farm
visits, particularly during the critical summer and autumn months, have
occurred as infrequently as once every 10 weeks. This problem has been
further aggravated by the lack of dairy farming experience of the new uni-
versity graduates employed in the Department. The Project would provide one
experienced technician for every 50 farms and would equip them with motorcycles



ANNEX 6
Page 3
to improve their mobility. In-service training programs are held regularly
for technicians and the more outstanding of them have good opportunities to
obtain additional training overseas under bilateral aid agreements and the
Colombo Plan. Five farm technicians and three processing technicians have
each received one year of training in New Zealand. Short-term fellowships
for three technicians to Taiwan and one to New Zealand were requested in
late 1974 and approval is awaited.
5.        To strengthen policy-making in KDBC Head Office and provide direc-
tion for field staff, the Project would provide a Korean specialist in Farm
records analysis, marketing, pasture and forage crop management, and KDBC
financial management. Each of these areas has been identified over the
course of Project I as being particularly weak and in need of correction.
Of greatest concern is the weak marketing structure in KDBC, particularly
in light of the need for marketing of ice cream, baby milk powders and the
proposed coffee creamer. In addition to the provision of a marketing
specialist, a technical service agreement on a fee paying basis should be
sought between KDBC and an overseas ice cream company with a good marketing
record.
6.        Expatriate specialists are required to introduce technical
innovations in the Project and train new technicians to take over when their
appointments expire. Considerable progress in this regard was made under
Project I, but the different nature of the inputs and the greater level of
efficiency required under the proposed project necessitates continuation of
the assistance. The advisors would be expected, where appropriate, to hold
formal farmer training sessions and research and publish improved production
techniques. An allowance of US$10,000 per specialist per year has been
included in the cost for internationally recruited technical specialists to
facilitate research. Details of their terms of reference are in the Ap-
pendices to this Annex.
7.        The project would provide for considerable extension of the farmer
training programs available in Project I. Training for farmers is conducted
in residence at the Korea-New Zealand Pyongtaek Dairy Demonstration Farm and
by seminars and field visits in the countries. Table 4 summarizes the
training courses conducted by KDBC for farmers and field technicians from
1972-1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Table 4:  K3BC Training Courses 1972-1974
1972         1973         1974
People Attending
Farmer's Training
10-20 day courses         124          120           60
3-6 week courses          14           46           31
6 week - 6 month
courses
(college students)          6            9           10
One day seminars
(counties)                100          551       1,090
8.        The mission considers that partial training should be obligatory
for farmers entering the proposed project without any experience with dairy
cattle. A four-week course would be provided for 120 farmers in 1975, 150
farmers in 1977 and 180 farmers in 1978. Each course would accommodate 30
farmers and would provide about 100 hours of lectures in animal feeding,
reproduction, milk production and hygiene, animal health and farm planning,
and recording. There would be about 100 hours of farm practical training
and 25 hours of farm visits. The cost for each course would be about 644,000
won (US$1,342) and would be financed under the Project.
9.        Farmers receiving assistance to develop existing properties into
viable units would also be required to attend a 10 day course at the Pyong-
taek Demonstration Farm. Three hundred and twenty farmers would be trained
in 1976 and 80 in 1977.  The range of subject matter would be similar to
that for the new farmer courses, but would be pitched at a level commensurate
with their experience. The cost per course of 30 is estimated to be 250,000
won (US$522) and would be met out of project funds.
10.       A one-week course would be offered farmers xwho seek additional
training one year after receipt of their cattle. This course would have
approximately 20 hours of lectures, 16 hours of discussion and 18 hours of
farm practical work. KDBC estimates that about 180 farmers would request
training in 1977 and another 180 in 1978. The cost per course of 30 would
be 166,000 won (US$34). In addition to the follow-up course, one-day field
seminars would be held regularly throughout the milk producing areas.
11.       The costs for farmer training provided in the project are summarized
in Table 5.



AN'IEX 6
Page >
Table 5: Cost of Farmer Training Programs
(Won)
Course                             1976               1977        1978
New farmer courses (4 weeks)            3,032,000         3,520,000    4,164,000
Existing farmer courses
(10 days)                         2,676,000           656,000         -
Follow-up courses (1 week)                   -              996,000      996,000
Field Seminars (1 day)                    285,000           331,000      383,000
Total (Won)                       5,993,000         5,512,000    5,543,000
Total (US$)                           12,485           11,483        11,547



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1.        Technical Director - Dairy Husbandry Specialist - would act as a
Technical Director within the Department of Technical Service, Korea Dairy
Beef Co., (KDBC). Including, but not limiting the generality thereof, he
would have the following minimum specific duties, responsibilities, and
powers which he might delegate in whole or in part to assigned technical
staff:
(a)  advising the administrative officials (President and
Director, Department of Technical Services) on major
policy decisions in respect of the dairy farm
development sub-project;
(b)  executing the sub-project in accordance with the
policies and procedures agreed to between IBRD,
Government and KDBC;
(c)  overseeing the selection and employment of the field
extension staff required to implement the sub-project
activities;
(d)  training the field staff in the technical econQmic and
financial aspects of livestock production in particular
the preparation of dairy farm development plans and
the keeping and analysis of farm management records;
(e)  reviewing farmer training manuals and extension
material, and where, appropriate supervise the
updating and inclusion of additional material
considered of benefit to farmers;
(f)  approving or disapproving dairy-farm development
plans prepared and appraised under the sub-project
and recommending approved plans to KDBC for lending;
(g)  guiding KDBC in the selection of the design and speci-
fications of cow barns and feeding arrangements; design
and specifications of milking parlors and milking plants;
milking practices, hygienic milk production, mastitis
identification and control; approving participating
farmers; organizing, approving and giving overall
supervision to the AI technical service; and in
cooperation with KDBC's processing plants, maintaining
a quality control service; and other technical components
of development plans;



ATMEX 6
Appendix I
Page 2
(h) providing such supervision and technical assistance
as necessary to ensure successful completion of
each dairy farm developm.ent plan and loan;
(i) giving assistance and cooperation to the animal
health/nutrition and pasture management specialists
to implement their terms of reference;
(j) fostering where possible simple applied research
projects to overcome some of the technical barriers
to raising the efficiency of dairy farms; and
(k) providing Government and IBRD with regular critical
reports on the progress of the farm development
sub-components of the project, identifying
present and future problem areas and recommending
courses of action.
2.        Animal Health/Nutrition Specialist - would be attached to and
administratively responsible to the Technical Services Department KDBC.
Including, but not limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following
minimum specific duties and responsibilities:
(a) initiation and extension of ongoing trial work to
establish the most economic feeding regimen for
dairy production, specifically determining:
(i)  the feed values of various forages harvested
at different stages of growth and stored as
silage or hay;
(ii) the production response to different levels of
concentrate feeding in combination with
different types and quality of forage;
(iii) the response to concentrates when cattle are
grazed or fed green pasture or forage crops.
(b)  Comparing different feeding systems, including stall
feeding, self-feeding or combinations thereof;
(c) developing comparative information on various
winter feeding systems, particular emphasis being
given to substitition of importod feedstuffs with
locally produced goods;
(d)  overseeing and encouraging the selection and employment
of animal health staff, particularly veterinarians, to
provide an effective animal health, Al and milk quality
control service to farmers;



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 3
(e) improving the analytical laboratory services available
to farmers and veterinarians;
(f) arranging bulk purchase of drugs for sale to farmers;
(g) assist training of KDBC field staff and farmers in
matters relating to animal health and nutrition.
This may involve updating existing training manuals
and the extension material provided to farmers.
(h) On completion of his appointment provide MAF, KDBC
and IBRD with a brief report of the outcome of his
work and recommendations for future action.
3.        Pasture Management Specialist - would be attached to and administra-
tively responsible to the Department of Technical Services, KDBC. Including,
but not limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following minimum
specific duties and responsibilities:
(a) assessing the existing state of knowledge on pasture
and forage production in Korea, and on the basis of
that knowledge assist KDBC to implement the pasture
development, maintenance and renewal phases of the
project sub-components;
(b)  initiate and continue worthwhile on-going research
projects commenced under Project I, to determine
the most suitable grasses, forage and legume
plants for dairy development in Korea. Particular
emphasis should be given to the most attractive
economic methods of pasture or crop establishment,
seeding and fertilizing and management. The
appointee would be expected to coordinate his work
with that of the animal nutrition specialist and
with research teams working on similar problems in
Korea;
(c) formulating and supervising a scheme for pasture and
forage seed multiplication with project farmers, or
other farmers, using imported foundation seed;
(d) assisting the training of Project farmers and field
technicians in improved methods of pasture and
forage crop production, hay and silage making, which
may require updating of existing training materials
and the extension material provided to farmers.
(e)  on completion of his appointment, provide MAF, KDBC
and TBRD with a brief record of his work and make
recorimendations for fututre action.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 4
4.        Dairy Processing Specialist- would be attached to and administra-
tively responsible to the the Dairy Processing Department, KDBC. Including,
but not limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following minimum
specific duties and responsibilities:
(a) advising the administrative officials (President
and Director, Department of Dairy Processing)
on major policy decisions in respect to the dairy
products processing facilities sub-project.
(b) advising KDBC on the most appropriate way to implement the
processing sub-project. In particular, the siting of
facilities, the preparation of the design, layout and
specifications of structures and equipment; preparation of
international and national tenders for materials, equipment,
utilities and labor, evaluation of tenders and recommendations
of contracts;
(c) supervising the construction and installation of buildings,
equipment, and utilities;
(d) guiding management, and training personnel to operate
the existing and new facilities. This may involve
the preparation of an operational manual detailing
specific duties and the manner in which they are to
be performed.
(e) working with the Technical Director and the Animal
Health Specialist to maintain a milk quality control
service.
(f) working with the Technical Director to coordinate
milk flows from near and existing farms with
contribution and operation of new and existing
milk processing facilities.
(g) providing Government and IBRD with regular critical
reports on the progress of the milk products
processing sub-components of the project identifying
problem areas present and future and recommending
cour;es of action.
(h) on completion of his appointment, provide MAF, KDBC
and IBRD with a brief record of his work and make
recommendations for future action.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
1.        The major objectives of the project are (i) to raise the income
base of part of the Korean rural population, (ii) to create additional rural
and urban job opportunities, and (iii) to increase the domestic supply of
milk and milk products to meet domestic demand.
2.        Items (i) and (ii) have been dealt with in Annex 4.  The project
as a whole is justified only if these desirable policy objectives also show
an acceptable EROR and if the financial returns to farmers (Annex 4) and
to KDBC (Annex 5) are also acceptable. The evaluation of the economic merit
of the Project is presented below.
B. Summary of Economic Evaluation
3.        The economic rate of return is estimated at 15%.  Sensitivity
analysis shows that the EROR rises to 25%, if the benefits rise by 10%; and
falls to 4% if the costs increase by 10% over the best estimates used.
4.        The calculations shown in Table 2 indicate that the balance of
payments of Korea would not be adversely affected by the implementation of
the Project; foreign exchange savings of some $27 million are expected for
the life of the Project.
5.        The Project is justified on the basis of the acceptable EROR of
15% shown above. (Table 1)
C. Methodology
6.        The economic rate of return was obtained after the adjustment of
the main benefits and costs to their border prices or the border prices of
their tradeable components by the elimination of taxes and subsidies. Alter-
native values applied to the domestic price structure in the analysis are
detailed below.
Raw Milk
7.        The alternative milk supply for Korea is the importation of milk
fat and skim milk powder, which would be used to reconstitute liquid milk.
One metric ton of reconstituted milk requires:



A-L   7
Page 2
US$         Thouisand won
33 kg. skim milk powder            83.83              40.24
32 kg. anhydrous milk fat          55.68              26.73
Minor ingredients                  10.00               4.80
Total cost              149.51              71.77
8.        The costs of reconstituting milk are actually less than the cost
of collecting milk from farmers, but for the purposes of the analysis it
was assumed that they are identical. The rest of the processing and packing
costs are identical for both products. The local price of 1 mt of Korean
milk is 120,000 won. The reconstituted product costs 60% of the price of
locally produced milk. Raw milk was thus valued at 60% of the price used
in the financial analysis. No premium was attached to the value for prefer-
ence of Korean consumers to a fresh milk alternative as there is no dis-
tinction between the alternative and milk in the processed end products
produced by KDBC.
Baby Milk Powder
9.        An infant powdered milk, imported in bulk, costs US$1,475 per mt
C.I.F. Busan. Adjusting the border price for Korean packing in 500 g. cans
similar to the one KDBC produces, the cost of baby powder milk would be
986,000 won per mt (US$2,054). This price, 73% of the KDBC product price,
was used in the economic analysis.
Whole and Skim Milk Powders
10.       Whole milk powder was devalued to the border level, if Korean
packed. As the C.I.F. Busan price is 554,880 won per mt, whole milk powder
as an input to the Yeongnam plant was valued at 36.9% of the local price.
Skim milk powder has been valued at 484,800 won per mt or 34.6% of the
locally produced product.
Tetrapack Sterilized Milk
11.       Tetrapacked milk is not an externally traded good; its economic
value was adjusted by the border price of its tradeable components, raw
milk and asceptic packing paper. Price of tetrapack milk was thus adjusted
to keep the same proportion of raw milk and paper in the total value of
sales as in the financial analysis, that is about 63%.
Frozen Milk Products
12.       Frozen milk products are not externally tradeable goods and were
adjusted by bringing the tradeable components in the final product, raw
milk, whole milk powder, and imported materials, to their border level and
keeping their share in the total sales of ice cream, about 40%.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Powdered Coffee Creamer
13.       Powdered coffee creamer of the dairy variety which would be pro-
duced at the Central plant, was valued at 1,227 won per kg. by keeping the
same proportion of raw milk in total sales. The methodiology used was the
same as that applied to tetrapacked milk and ice cream products.
Fertilizers
14.       Fertilizer's were adjusted to their average expected border prices
in the period 1975-80, based on forecast prices by IBRD Commodity Division
and in consultation with the USDA Commodities Statistics Department-. It
was estimated that the present high prices in the international market would
decline by the end of the decade, and should therefore b.e reduced for econo-
mic analysis.
Expected Average C.I.F.   Local Price   Adjustment
Pri.ces: 1975-80(US$)      1975(US$)         %
Urea                                 179                  133.3          34
Muriate of Potash                     79                   54.2          46
Normal 22% Phosphate                  69                   47.9          44
15.       The value of fertilizers for economic analysis was then determined
on the basis of the share of each of the above elements in the total cost
of fertilizers to the farm:
% Share in Total
Cost
Urea:                                 33             0.33 x 34 = 11.2
Muriate Qf Potash:                    23       --   0.23 X 46 = 10.6
Normal 22% Phosphate:                 44       --   0.44 xc 44 - 19.4
Total                     100%                         41.2%
(Approximately 40%'
16.       The price of fertilizers was raised by 40%.  The fertilizer price
for economic analysis affected items labelled as pasture establishment,
crop establishment, pasture maintenance and pasture renovation in Annex 4,
Tables 1 and 3. Each cost was raised'as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Share of Fertilizer in Cost      Adjustment
Pasture Maintenance                         100                      + 40
Crop production:  corn                       74                      + 30
ryecorn                   79                     + 32
barley                    60                     + 24
Pasture renovation                           32                      + 13
Investments:
pasture establishment                   23                     +  9
crop establishment                      14                     +  6
Concentrate Feed
17.       The controlled price of concentrate feed in the financial analysis
is US$0.133/kg. According to recent feed production statistics, corn, soy-
bean meal, and fish meal, account for 70% of the total quantity of feed
produced for sale in Korea. A similar procedure to the one applied for
fertilizers was followed.  Average C.I.F. prices of the feed ingredients
for the period 1975-80 were used as the basis for adjustment.
% in Total           Average C.I.F.       Cost for 0.7 mt
Production of Feed       Price 1975-80              Feed
Corn                     60%               US$114/mt           0.60 x 114 = 68.4
Soyabean meal             6%               US$173/mt           0.06 x 173 = 10.4
Fishmeal                  4%               US$288/mt           0.04 x 288 = 11.5
70%                                       US$ 90.3
Assuming the share of 70% of these ingredients in total feed is constant,
the C.I.F. price of feed used in projection is as follows:
90.3 x 100
70              US$129/mt of feed
18.       The (overninent presently subsidizes the price of feed concentrates
from the curre c 2.I.F. prices for corn, soyabean meal, and fishmeal.  By
avera6.g C.I.F. prices to 1980, the domestic price of US$133.33/mt for con-
centraLes is slightly higher than USS$129.00 price used in projections.  The
economic analysis thus reduced t'e price by 3.3% to reflect its cost to Lhe
economy.
Foreign, Subsidiar Materials
19.       The cost of foreign subsidiary materials used as inputs for tCc
production of frozen miki' products, taby milk powder, tetrapacked millk, ar&A
cofiee. creamers was reduced by 15Z to eliminate duties.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Investment Costs
20.       Investment costs of the motorized plant for the farm were reduced
by the amount equivalent to duties on their imported components:
Item         Foreign Component          Duty        % Adjustment
Water pump            50%                    20%             - 10%
Cutter                50%                    20%             - 10%
21.       Similarly, investment costs of the processing plants were reduced
to eliminate duties:
Item         Foreign Component           Duty       % Adjustment
Equipment &
Machinery             43%                    10%             -  4%
Accumulation depot
& collection centers 47%                     10%             -  5%



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
(Won '000,000)
1975          1976           1977          1978           1979           1980           1981          1982           1983           1984           1985           1986           1987
Dairy Farms
Sales 1/ 2/                                                     -              80           331            936           1374          1575           1800           1986           2124           2247           2349          2373           2373
Incremental Value of Herd                                                     -        _-                                 -              -              -              -              -             -              -_                          2067
Residual Plant Value                                                          -              -              -              -             -              -              -              -             -              -              -             282
Operating Expenses 3/                                           -           (134)          (426)          (769)        (1053)         (1177)         (1265)         (1328)         (1378)        (1417)         (1432)         (1435)         (1433)
Investment Coats 3/ 4/                                          _          (1514)         (1406)         (1424)         (108)            -              -              -
Dairy Processing Facilities
Yeongnam Plant
Sales (Frozen Milk Products) 2/                                 -             -            1089          2309           3628           3958          4397           4782           5112           5277           5497           5497           5497
Processing Expenses:
Raw Milk 2/                                                   --(144)                                  (302)          (475)          (518)          (576)         (624)          (670)          (691)          (720)          (720)          (720)
Operating Costs/Other Inputs                                  -                          (720)        (1382)         (2101)         (2306)         (2543)        (2762)         (2942)         (3030)         (3145)         (3145)         (3145)
overhead                                                     -            (111)          (361)          (501)         (549)          (565)          (580)          (595)         (606)          (613)          (620)          (620)          (620)
Investment Costs                                              (130)        (1199)          (205)          (303)         (159)            -              (9)           (29)           (18)            (9)           -              (9)           (29)
Central Plant
Sales (Baby Food, Skim Milk Powder & Powdered Creamer)2/ -                    -             390            864          1648           1871           2205           2421          2544           2718           2728           2750           2750
Processing Expenses:
Raw Milk 2/                                                  _              -             (72)         (160)          (304)          (345)          (407)          (447)         (469)          (50?)          (504)          (508)          (508)
Operating Costs/Other Inputs                                 -              -            (280)         (557)          (988)         (1124)        (1306)         (1443)         (1514)         (1613)         (1617)         (1631)         (1631)
Overhead                                                      -             -             (21)           (48)          (76)           (86)          (102)          (112)         (117)          (12 )          (126)          (127)          (127)
Investment Costs                                              (140)         (348)           (95)            -              -             -              -              -              -              -
Honam Plant
Sales (Tetrapack milk) 2/                                       -             -             337            543           654            795            816            875            914           919            926            928            966
Processing Expenses:
Raw Milk 2/                                                                              (149)          (235)         (283)          (344)          (353)          (379)          (396)         (398)          (401)          (402)          (402)
Operating Costs/Other Inputs                                 -              -            (141)          (196)         (237)          (276)          (282)          (315)         (326)          (327)          (339)          (340)          (340)
Overhead                                                                    -             (53)           (65)          (80)           (90)           (91)          (109)         (112)          (112)          (121)          (121)          (121)
Investment Costs                                                _            (65)          (141)            -              -             -              -              -              -              -              -             -              -
All Processing Plants:65
R    r siua   Vau.                                                                               -              -             -              -              -                                                                                655
Management and Technical Services                               -           (105)          (149)          (141)          (106)          (77)           (46)            -              -              -              -              -             -
Balance                                                       (270)        (3396)         (2216)         (1431),         785           1291           L65S           1921          2146           2324           2475           X490           5512
Note: Figures in brackets are costs
Economic Rate of Return of the Project:  1N.
1/ Milk sales are an income to the farmers and an operating empense to the proceusing ficilities that cancel each other out in the calculation of the annua1 balance.
2/ Milk and dairy products valued at their C.I.F. prices or at the C.I.F. prices of their components plus other manufacturing costa.
3/ Subsidies are included as part of the costs.
4/  Eighty percent of existing farms start investment in 1976 mid 20% in 1977; 25% of new farms start investments in 1976; 35% in 1977; and 407, in 1978.



KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange - Savings Summary
(US$)
-------------------    ________--- ---_------------------------ Project Years -----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__________
1 ~~~~~~ 2                 3           4            5             6              7            8             9            10            11            12           13
SAVINGS                      1975           1976        1977         1978         1979         1980           1981          1982         1983          1984          1985          1986          1987
Yeongnam                      _            _         997,801    2,099,272    3,297,835    3,598,020    3,997,458    4,347,510    4,647,445    4,796,583    4,997,343    4,997,343    4,997,343
Honam - Tetrapack Milk        -            -         306,250       485,417       583,333      710,417       729,166       781,250       816,666      820,833       827,083       829,166       892,166
Central Babyfood and
Coffee Creamer              -            -         810,416    1,800,000    3,433,333    3,897,916    4,593,750    5,043,750    5,300,000    5,662,500    5,683,333    5,729,166    5,729,166
Total Savings                                 2,114,467    4,384,689    7,314,501    8,206,353    9,320,374   10,172,510   10,764,111   11,279,916   11,507,759   11,555,675   11,555,675
DISSAVINGS
Farms                         -      1,992,533    1,844,808    2,020,120         679,842      740,701       808,466       861,662       877,072      877,072       877,072       877,072.      877,072
Plants                     170,045   1,936,179    2,111,714    2,923,745    3,955,754    3,794,183    4,322,085    4,912,110    5,213,977    5,407,606    5,559,016    5,571,716    5,571,716
Technical Services            -         196,875      279,375       264,375       198,750      144,375        86,250          -             -             -             -            -             -
Total Dissavings      170,045   4,125,587    4,235,897    5,208,240    4,834,346    4,679,259    5,216,801    4,912,110    6,091,049    6,284,678    6,436,088    6,448,788    6,448,788
NET SAVINGS                 -170,045  -4,125,587   -2,121,430       -823,551    2,480,155    3,527,094    4,103,573    5,260,400    4,673,062    4,995,238    5,071,671    5,106,887    5,106,887
TOTAL IN PROJECT LIFE:    US$ 27=077^105
TOTAL IN PROJECT LIFE
IF DISCOUNTED BY 9%:    US$ 12,449,256



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect Finance and Estimated Disbursenents
A. Project Costs and Project Financing
Project Costs
1.        Project costs, as summarized in para 3.23 of the Main Report, are
elaborated in Table 1 of this annex.
2.        Total farm development costs were obtained from the models of
investment costs per new farm and the costs of restructuring an existing
farm (Annex 4, Tables 1 and 5). The cost per new farm would be 7.8 million
won (US$16,400) and for existing farms 2.2 million won (US$4,600), excluding
price and physical contingencies and farm working capital.
3.        Base investment cost for dairy processing facilities, including
start-up materials, total 3.1 billion won (US$6.5 million). The detailed
estimates of these costs are included in Annex 5, Table 1.
Contingencies
4.        Price and physical contingencies have been assumed for both local
and foreign costs.
(a)  Physical.  Total project cost includes physical contingencies
of 10% on all categories except management and technical
services and working capital.
(b)  Price.  The annual percentage rates of increase for the costs
of equipment and civil works which were used are as follows:
Equipment   Civil Works
1975               20           18
1976               10           14
1977-79             8           12
These estimates are  based on experience in Korea on price
movements for imported equipment and for civil works.  The
total of the price contingencies, excluding farm working capital
and dairy processing start-up materials, applied over the
project period, averages 36%.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Foreign Exchange Risk
5.        The Government has agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk for
IBRD funds used for farm development and technical services. Under Project I,
KDBC carried the foreign exchange risk for both farm development and dairy
processing funds. Devaluations of the won and reduction of the par value
of the dollar have resulted in additional long term liabilities to KDBC of
about US$2.0 million. In projecting a foreign exchange risk at an increase
of 3% per annum on IBRD funds foxi Project TI, total payments for foreign
exchange alignment to 1987 would amount to US$5.4 million. Government would
bear about US$2.6 million of the total while KDBC would incur US$2.8 million
for the risk on IBRD funds for dairy processing.
Project Finance
6.        KDBC would borrow IBRD funds and Government funds to be used for
on-lending to farmers and for milk processing, on the following terms:
Interest   Terms of   Grace
_        Loan      Period
years
IBRD funds to Government              8.5         25          7
Government on-lending IBRD
funds to KDBC                    8.5        15           6
NACF funds to KDBC                    9.0          9          4
KDBC on-lending to Farmers -
a) Buildings, Plant and
Livestock                    12.0         9           3
b) Pasture Establishment         9.0         9           3
7.        Government has agreed to no spread on interest rates for on-lending
IBRD funds (US$15.0 million) to KDBC, but would receive additional liquidity
of 10 years in repayment to IBRD from KDBC. NACF would lend US$3.1 million
to KDBC at 9% for farm development. The Government subsidy (US$0.8 million)
would be granted to farmers for pasture establishment through the MAF.
Government would bear the cost of the commitment fee on undisbursed IBRD funds.
8.        KDBC would on-lend IBRD funds to farmers at 12%.  NACF funds for
farm buildings, plant and livestock would be on-lent to farmers at 12%. The
NACF loan for I ,sture establishment would be on-lent by KDBC to farmers at
9,70. I l conformance with present NACF lending to farmers, all farm loans
would be made for a total of 9 years with 3 years grace. Projected cash
flows for KDBC and farmers indicace that there would be no difficulty meeting
debt service requirements with the proposed terms of financing. KDBC would
have the blended spread of about 3.35% on loans to farmers from NACF and IBRD
funds. This spread is adequate for KDBC recovery of costs incurred for
administration and other overheads associated with on farm lending and
management and technical services.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
B. Phasing and Disbursements
Phasing of Farm Development
9.        On farm investments would not begin until year 2 of the Project
when construction of the Yeongnam plant and the expansion of existing facil-
ities would be sufficiently advanced to receive the milk flow from these
farms. As most of the existing farms with 8 cows or less require immediate
assistance, 80% of these farms would be financed as early as possible, in
the first year of farm development (Project year 2); the remaining 20% would
start on-farm investments in Project year 3. New farm development would be
phased over 3 years. The flow of funds for disbursement by sources for the
phasing of farm development is contained in Table 2 of this annex. Phasing
of farm development is detailed in the following:
-Project Year-----
1     2     3     4
1975  1976  1977  1978  Total
No. of new farms           --    113   157   180   450
No. of existing farms      --    319    81   ---   400
Phasing of Processing Plants
10.       Processing plant investments would be phased over five years with
the majority of investments made in Project year 2. Details of phasing of
these plant investments in Annex 5, Table 1, and the ssummary of disbursements
by source as contained in Table 2 of this annex.
11.       The Yeongnam plant should be built as soon as possible to take
advantage of the large and open market in the Yeongnam-Busan area, and to
improve the profitability of KDBC. Investments in land, civil works and
several buildings would be made in November-December 1975, and processing,
packing and refrigeration equipment purchased the following year. During its
first year of operation, it is anticipated that whole milk powder will need
to be transported to Yeongnam from the Central plant until the milk flow from
the Yeongnam farms is sufficient to meet processing requirements.
12.       With the exception of equipment for powdered coffee creamer in
year 1, investments for the Central plant expansion would be made in year 2
of the Project. The capacity of the evaporator unit would need to be enlarged
before milk intake rises beyond 35 mt per day. Capacity is presently
limited to 2.2 mt per hour for baby milk powder or 4.4 mt per hour when
producing whole milk powder. To facilitate additional milk intake under
Project II, to allow for maximum production of baby milk powders, and to
provide concentrated milk solids for the Yeongnam plant, the project would
finance the purchase of a batch evaporator with a 10,000 liter capacity in
year 3 of the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
13.       The heat exchange for sterilizing milk at Honam plant would be
installed in year 3 when sterilizing capacity would be short of packing
capacity. The exchanger would allow for continuous plant operation without
delays in the cleaning cycle of the sterilizer.
Disbursements
14.       It is expected that the IBRD loan (US$15.0 million) would be
disbursed over a 7 year period. Phasing of disbursements by Project costs
is shown in Table 2 and quarterly disbursements in Table 3. 18% of IBRD
funds including contingencies would be disbursed in FY1976; 43% in FY1977;
17% in FY1978; and the remaining 22% in later years.
15.       The budgeted allocation of the NACF loan (US$3.1 million) is shown
in Table 2. Disbursement of the NACF loan including contingencies would
be 451 million won in calendar year 1976; 407 million won in 1977; 432 million
won in 1978; and 210 million won in 1979. Funds in the NACF loan for con-
tingencies on all local costs of dairy development would be available to
farmers in loans from KDFC. The phasing of disbursement of farm subsidies
by Government (US$0.8 million) is expected to be 101 million won in 1976;
102 million won in 1977, 108 million won in 1978, and 51 million in 1979.
16.       The increased capitalization of KDBC to implement the project
would be 1,427 million won (US$3.0 million). Paid in shares for local
currency costs of dairy processing and management and technical services
would be 120 million won by January 30, 1976; 450 million won by November
30, 1976; 200 million won by April 30, 1977; 300 million won by February 28,
1978 and 357 million won by January 30, 1979. Should there be any shortfall
in share-capital meeting local currency needs is the initial years of the
project KDBC would borrow short-term capital. It is anticipated that KDBC
share capital requirements after 1977 would be reviewed in that year to
take into consideration the magnitude of the Company's cash surplus.
Capital increases would be provided by individual shareholders in KDBC, AFDC
and participating farmers. AFDC, as in Project I would participate with
40% to 49% ownership. KDBC and associated farmers are expected to have
51 to 60% ownership. Assurances have been received from the Government that
if the full amount of share capital increase is not raised in the form of
equity, bridging loans to the extent required would be made by NACF or other
appropriate Government agencies. These would be repaid when KDBC is able
to raise sufficient resources through increases in equity. To ensure that
private investors would be widely diffused, KDBC would not, except with the
consent'of IBRD, accept new shareholders whc own or control more than 5% of
KDBC's subscribed capital at any particular time.



Annex 8
KOREA                                                            Table I
SECOND KOREA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sources of Funding
U.S. Dollars (Million Won in Parenthesis)
Total Cost                             I51(D           Government                      XDBC              Farmers
Existing                         Foreign          MAP          NACFoa             Share                        Existing
New Farm         Farm.          Total             Exchange      Subsidy         to  KDBC          Caoital      New Fare         Farm
1. DAIRY DEVELOPMET
Pasture Establishmcent           1,060,290         289,800       1,350,090          _              755,877         236,686          -              280,659          76,868
(509)          (139)           (648)         _                 (362)           (114)         -                 (135)            (37)
Crops                              341,618         101,220         442,838          49,140          -               -               _              303,541          90,157
(164)           (49)            (213)           (24)         _               -               _                 (146)            (43)
BPildings, Plant, Water          2,258,550          78,540       2,337,090         358,523          -              714,034          _            1,221,538         42,995
(1,084)            (38)         (1,122)           (172)        -                (343)          -                 (586)           ( 21)
Livestock                        3,735,900       1,245,300       4,981,200       4,483,290          -               -               -              373,432         124,478
(1,793)           (598)         (2,391)         (2,152)        -               -               -                (179)             (60)
Pasture Renovation                  -              139,860         139,860          42,000          -               -               -               -               97,860
(67)            (67)            (20)        -                                               -                  (47)
Sub-total                  7,396,358       1,854,720       9,251,078       4,932,953         755,877         950,720                       2,179,170         432,358
(3,550)           (891)         (4,441)         (2,368)           (362)           (457)        -               (1,046)          (208)
Contingency                      3,323,098         833,300       4,156,398       2,083,697          -            2,072,701                                          -
(1,595)           (400)         (1,995)        (1,000)         -                  (995)        _               _
Working Capital - Farms            500,000          -              500,000         400,000          -              100,000
(2405        _                  (240)          (192)         -                 ( 48)         -               -               _
Total                     11,219,456       2,688,020      13,907,476       7,416,650         755,877       3,123,421          -            2,179,170         432,358
(5,385)        (1,291)          (6,676)         (3,560)           (362)        (1,500)         -               (1,046)           (208)
2. DAIRY PROCESSING PLANTS               -               -            6,464,600       4,433,359          -               -            2,031,250
(3,103)         (2,128)                                           (975)
Contingency                         -               -            2,300,000       1,630,000          -               -              670,000
(1,104)           (782)                                           (322)
Sub-total                                                  7,100,000       5,030,000                                       2,701,250
(3,408)         (2,414)                                        (1,297)
3. MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL SERVICE COST                              1,300,000       1,100,000                                         200,000
(624)          (528)                                            (96)
Contingency                                                        490,000         420,000                                          70,000
(237)           (202)                                           (35
Sub-total                                                  1,790,000       1,520,000                                         270,000
(861)           (730)                                          (131)
Total                                                     24,462,076      15,000,000         755,877       3,123,421       2,971,250       2,179,170         432,358
(11,744)         (7,200)          (362)         (1.500)         (1428          (1,046)            (208)
GRAND TOTAL                                               24,462,076       15,000,000              3,879,298               2,971,250               2,611,528
(11,744)          (7,200)               (1,862)                 (1,428)                 (1,254)
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                      61%                   16%                      1271                    11%



Annex 8
Table 2
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Project Costs by Sources for Disbursement
(Million Won)
CATEGORY                                           1         2          3          4         5          6          7           TOTAL
1975      1976       1977      1978        1979      1980      1981
Dairy Development
IBRD Loan L1                                           1,023        661       634        242                                2,560
Contingencies /2                                       350        280       267        103                                1,000
Government Loan 73                                       175        128       136         66                                  505
Contingencies Z4                                       276        279       296        144                                  995
Government Subsidy                                       101        102       108         51:                                 362
Total Farmer's Contribution                              439        350       336        129                                1,254
Sub-Total                                       2,364     1,800      1,777        735                                6,676
Dairy Processing Facilities
IbRD Loan /5 /6                               156      1,270        288       262        152                                2,128
Contingencies                                50        558         94        68         12                                  782
KDBC Financed /7                               200       744        222         77        54                                1,297
Sub-Total                              406      2,572       604        407        218                               4,207
Management and Technical Services
IBRD Loan                                                 89        127       120         90         64        38             528
Contingency L8                                          34        48         46         35         24        15             202
KDBC Financed /7                                          22         30         28        23         17        11             131
Sub-Total                                         145       205        194        148       105         64             861
TOTAL PROJECT DISBURSEMENT                         406     5,081      2,609      2,378     1,101        105        64          11,744
of which:
a)   IBRD Loan                                156      2,382      1,076     1,016        484         64       38            5,216
Contingencies                          50        942       422        381        150        24        15            1,984
Total IBRD Loan                          206      3,324     1,498      1,397        634        88        53            7,200
b)   Government Loan                            -        175        128       136         66         -         -              505
Contingencies                                    276       279        296        144        -         -               995
Total Government Loan                     -         451       407        432        210        -         -             1,500
Goverment Subsidy                         -         101       102        108         51        -         -               362
Total Government Contribution              -         552       509        540        261        -         -             1,862
c)       Total KDBC Finance L9                200        766        252       105         77         17       11            1,428
d)   Total Farmers Contributions               -         439        350       336        129         -         -            1,254
/1 IBRD loan includes 192 million won in 1976 for incremental farm working capital on which there are no price or physical contingencies.
72 Contingencies in Dairy Development have been reduced by 137 million won, US$ 284,000,to reduce total IBRD loan to US$ 15.0 million.
73 Government loan includes 48 million won in 1976 for local costs of incremental farm working capital on which there are no price or physical contingencies.
74 Government would finance all contingencies for local costs for dairy development.
75 IBRD loan includes start-up materials for dairy processing, about 496 million won, on which there are no contingencies.
76 All 1975 disbursements represent contracts made in calender year 1975. Actual disbursements are likely to occur in 1976.
77 KDBC finance represents expected need for local currency including contingencies.
L8 Price contingency only.
/9 To be financed from increases to share capital, from cash flow surpluses,and short term loans.



ANNaX 8
Table 3
KOREA
SECOND KOREA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursement
TYSi$ '000)
IBIR  Fiscal Year and Quarter            Quarterly        Cumulative at End
Disbursement      of Quarter
FY 1976
January - March 1976 /1                1,258             1,258
March - June 1976                      1,463             2,721
FY 1977
lst July - September 1976              2,199            4,920
2nd October - December 1976            2,434             7,354
3rd                                    1,269             8,623
4th                                      619             9,242
FY 1978
lst  -                                   617            9,859
2nd                                      617            10,476
3rd                                      585            11,061
4th                                      73C            11,791
FY 1979
1st                                      797            12,588
2nd                                      798            13,386
3rd                                      294            13,680
4th                                      343            14,023
FY 1980
lst                                      342           14,365
2nd                                      342            14,707
3rd                                       46            14,753
4th                                       46            14,799
FY 1981
1st                                       46            14,845
2nd                                       45            14,890
3rd                                       28            14,918
4th                                       28            14,946
FY 1982
1st                                       27           14,973
2nd                                       27           15,000
/1 Subject to loan effectiveness January 3O,) 1976.






/te~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  l-
9 WS  0  <F  ,X   =      U~~~~~~~~~~~~
: j 9 f;Wi tF Gls L C   SX A W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s k:A
l   --   q    ao   s  X     - -~~~~7



