CIRCULATtNG COPY
F L       C        y     TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF-INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-16 9 7-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 15, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit       -    Won
Won 485             -    US$1.00
Won 1,000           -    US$2.06
Won 1,000,000       -    US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year - January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A SECOND INTERGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $15.0 million to help
finance a second integrated dairy development project. The loan would
have a term of 25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest
at 8-1/2 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan will be onlent to
KDBC with repayment over 15 years, including six years of grace, at the
same interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of SecM75-437
dated June 9, 1975. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade has been out-
standing. It entered the sixties with one of the lowest income levels in
the world; it had little experience of participation in international trade;
and it lacked natural resources. Despite these unpromising beginnings,
Korea embarked on a course of export-oriented industrial growth that has
led to its recognition as one of the most successful examples of develop-
ment. Its rich endowment with the human capabilities for economic success,
the availability of considerable entrepreneurial talent, a social environ-
ment which is conducive to rapid economic change, and a national dedication
to unambiguous economic goals, all contributed to Korea's impressive per-
formance. In the period 1964-74, the GNP growth rate averaged 10 percent a
year in real terms, reaching the record level of 16.5 percent in 1973. This,
together with a decline in population growth (from about 2.7 percent per
year at the beginning of the period to about 1.7 percent at present), caused
per capita income to more than double in the period.   The mainspring of
economic growth has been the increase of manufactured exports (from about
$65 million in 1964 to over $4 billion in 1974).   The ratio of exports to
GNP rose rapidly from 4 percent in 1964 to 27 percent in 1974, and the
manufacturing sector as a proportion of GNP increased from 12 percent to 28
percent in the same period. Agriculture, despite an annual growth rate of
about 3.5 percent during the last decade, declined as a proportion of GNP
(from 43 percent in 1964 to 23 percent in 1974).
4.        Total real investment grew ten-fold between 1964 and 1974, and
the ratio of investment to GNP rose from 13 percent to 29 percent. External
resource requirements also grew rapidly, averaging about 9 percent of GNP
during 1970-71, roughly the same level as in the early 1960's. The marginal
saving rate during the last decade was 30 percent, which indicates that
large capital inflows did not weaken efforts to mobilize resources domes-
tically. However, Korea entered upon a period of rapid growth with a very
low level of domestic savings and, therefore, the Government pursued a



-2-
policy of relatively heavy dependence on external capital in the interest
of a rapid acceleration of investment and growth. Moreover, since exports
during 1964-74 were rising at an average rate of nearly 47 percent, the
burden of additional external debt was not excessive, and the debt service
ratio stood at around 13 percent in 1974.
5.        Korea's performance in attempting to achieve a balanced distribu-
tion of the benefits of growth is also creditable. However, despite the
fact that income distribution in Korea is generally more equitable than in
comparable developing countries, the absolute gap in incomes between the
urban and rural areas widened during the 1960's despite substantial migra-
tion to the cities, a modest reduction in the farm population, and high
yields per unit of land under cultivation. Growth of labor productivity
in agriculture was nevertheless considerably slower than in manufacturing.
Since 1967, the Government has attempted to raise farm incomes and to pro-
vide other incentives for increasing foodgrain production through a price
support system covering rice and barley. It broadened its efforts to achieve
more widely and evenly distributed income growth by pursuing policies of
decentralizing industry and emphasizing investment in the less developed
regions. Also, in 1971, the Government initiated. the Sae Maeul (New Com-
munity) Movement as a nationwide self-help program, aimed at increasing
productivity and incomes (especially in the rural, areas where nearly half
the population still lives) and at improving the quality of rural life.
Partly as a result of these various measures, average rural household incomes
are now nearly in line wit.h those of average urban households.
Recent Trends
6.        During the last three years the Korean economic situation has been
subject to sudden and sharp changes. Beginning with the latter part of 1972,
the Korean economy experietnced an unprecedented boom. 1973 was an exceptional
year, even by Korean standards, and set new records of growth in GNP, exports
and savings. In the latter part of 1973, Korean economic aspirations were
expressed in terms of official targets for the early 1980's of $1,000 per
capita and $10 billion of exports. The long-term strategy implied the con-
tinuation over the next decade of an overall rate of GNP growth of about 10
percent per annum but with reduced dependence, in relative terms, on net
inflows from abroad.
7.        The favorable economic developments of 1973 were interrupted by
external developments in 1974. The sharp rise in the price of petroleum
beginning in late 1973, the recession in the Japanese and U.S. economies in
1974, and the high level of foodgrain and other import prices, combined to
bring about a major change in the short-term economic position of Korea.
Owing to its poor natural resource endowment and because of its economic
structure and growth strategy, Korea was severely affected by these inter-
national developments. Merchandise exports now account for about 24 percent
of GNP in Korea; and dependence on the Japanese and U.S. markets remains
heavy, notwithstanding the Government's efforts to diversify export markets
by encouraging sales in the Middle East, Europe and Latin America.



-3-
8.        The higher costs of energy and food imports alone have placed a
severe burden on the economy and the balance of payments. Korean dependence
on imported fuels is not only extremely heavy but is also very closely linked
to essential industrial and transport uses. The additional cost of petro-
leum added almost $800 million to the import bill in 1974 (considerably more
than twice the current account deficit in 1973) and a doubling of the prices
of foodgrains increased foreign exchange requirements in 1974 by more than
$300 million, despite a decline in the volume of these imports. Together
petroleum and foodgrains accounted for about 45 percent of Korea's increased
import bill in 1974 and 25 percent of total import payments. The cost of
imported raw materials and intermediate goods also increased appreciably and
compounded the balance of payments problem. The magnitude of the effects
of these adverse developments can be gauged by the fact that Korea's terms
of trade deteriorated by 18 percent, or about 5 percent of GNP, in 1974
compared with 1973.
9.        Notwithstanding the very serious terms of trade loss, the Korean
economy might have been able to avoid a major slowdown but for a simulta-
neous setback to export growth. Real export growth, which had reached the
peak of 52 percent per annum during 1972-73, slowed down to 9 percent during
1974 and may come down further to only 4 percent in 1975. This sharp de-
cline in export growth is attributable directly to the deep recession in
the U.S. and Japan, Korea's major trading partners. The volume of Korean
exports to Japan is estimated to have declined by about 6 percent during
1974, and Korea's trade deficit with Japan widened to $1.2 billion compared
to $0.5 billion in 1973. The volume of exports to the U.S. increased even
in 1974. It is noteworthy that Korean exports to countries other than the
U.S. and Japan showed a marked real increase of 40 percent during 1974, which
if sustained will denote considerable success with the market diversification
effort.
10.       Imported inflation has also led to a very sharp upward pressure on
the domestic price level. In addition to the sharply higher prices of
imported petroleum and foodgrains, the average unit value of other imports
increased by 45 percent during 1974. Consequently, the rate of domestic
inflation accelerated; in calendar year 1974, consumer prices rose by about
26 percent and wholesale prices increased by about 45 percent. Since the
middle of 1974, the rate of domestic inflation has slowed somewhat, reflect-
ing seasonal factors, the slower increase in the prices of imported goods
and the dampening effects of rising inventories of manufactured goods.
Government Policy Response
11.       Until the end of 1974, the Government followed policies which were
based on the premise that the economy should remain poised to capitalize on
the worldwide economic recovery, which Korea expected would commence by early
1975. Thus, the principal objectives of policy in 1974 were to ease the ad-
justment to higher oil and other import prices, while cushioning the impact
of the recession to avoid unduly slowing domestic investment and employment
growth.



-4-
12.       In general, the Government has been committed to accepting neces-
sary price adjustments arising from higher energy and other import costs;
one major exception to this general policy was its unwillingness to place
on consumers the full burden of higher import costs of basic foodstuffs.
Thus, despite increases in prices paid by consumers for foodgrains, substan-
tial subsidies are involved in the sale of wheat and rice. Complete avoid-
ance of subsidies at a time of growing unemployment and declining real wages
in manufacturing would have been difficult. Nevertheless, the Government
fully recognizes the distortions in the price structure resulting from these
large subsidies and is greatly concerned with the heavy burden they have
placed on the budget. Thus, remodelling of the price structure is a major
objective of the Government.
13.       Selective credit measures to assist the most distressed industries
were another element in the Government's effort to cushion the impact of
recession in 1974. These measures were intended to enable industry to fi-
nance stocks of specified raw materials, and to carry raw materials and
finished goods inventories that had become excessive as a result of the de-
cline in export demand. Small- and medium-sized firms which were particu-
larly hard hit by the onset of the recession were assisted by a large credit
program embracing both worlking capital and investment loans. These firms
also benefitted from a preferential (government subsidized) interest rate of
12 percent, 3 percent below the normal bank rate on such loans. Similarly,
special subsidized credit iacilities were made available to the machinery
industries and to finance equipment purchases by export industries. All
told, such programs provided credits totalling some W 200 billion ($495
million), equivalent to over 20 percent of the increase in total credit to
the private sector in 1974. Overall monetary policy, which had been made
quite tight in the first half of the year, was significantly eased after
mid-year. The increase in domestic credit in the second half of the last
year was more than double that in the January-June! period and, over the year
as a whole, domestic credit expanded by about 50 percent compared with an
increase of only about 30 percent in 1973. However, owing to the contrac-
tionary influence of the external deficit, the money supply increased by
only about 30 percent, compared with 40 percent in 1973.
14.       In December 1974, the Government introduced a further set of
special measures to offset the sluggish demand for exports and to relieve
the liquidity problems of exporters. It expanded the program of export
financing, undertook to purchase excess inventories of finished goods from
industries particularly hard hit by the fall in export demand, and increased
credits to exporters for the purchase of imported and domestic materials.
On December 7, 1974, the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to W 485 per
U.S. dollar. The devaluation was not expected to increase exports appre-
ciably because of the depressed state of Korea's overseas markets, but like
some of the other measures, it was intended to improve the liquidity position
of manufacturing enterprises. It should also improve the competitive po-
sition of import substitution industries which had been weakened during the
year. But the devaluation will also contribute to continued inflationary
pressures in 1975. Among measures taken by the Government to help the low
income groups are substantial income tax relief, a 30 percent increase in the



-5-
salaries of Government employees and the initiation of public works projects,
mainly in the urban areas, to alleviate unemployment. The rural areas appear
to have been hit less hard by the economic slowdown. The terms of trade
moved further in favor of the farmers during 1974 as the support price for
rice was adjusted sharply upward.
15.       It was largely because of the efforts to sustain the 1973 momentum
of growth that the real GNP rose in 1974 by more than 8 percent; sizeable
gains were recorded in both consumption and investment. However, notwith-
standing the support provided by Government, there was a sharp slowdown in
industrial output, private fixed investment and export sales in the second
half of 1974.
16.       The impact of the adverse turn of events in 1974 was borne primari-
ly by the balance of payments. The current account deficit widened from $0.3
billion in 1973 to $1.8 billion in 1974 and may be somewhat larger in 1975.
Even this expectation assumes a substantial improvement in the latter half
of this year, since the current account deficit in the first half of
1975 alone amounted to $1.6 billion; however, by July there were signs that
import and export trends were coming into better balance. The financing of
the 1974 deficit involved a very large reduction ($738 million) in net
international reserves (to $300 million); so far this year the continued
deficit has meant further reduction in net international reserves which are
now substantially negative. The financing of the large anticipated balance
of payments deficit for 1975 will require a major increase in disbursements
of medium- and long-term loans.
Longer-Term Prospects
17.       Before the international developments of late 1973 and 1974, Korea
appeared to be set on an economic course which could have led to its exceed-
ing its long-range economic goals. However, the changes since the long-term
framework was formulated in 1973 have necessitated a re-examination of both
the objectives and the strategy. Although revised plans have not been com-
pleted, it appears that the target for the average annual increase in GNP
will be somewhat different from that originally envisioned. Nevertheless,
industrial development will remain an important element of the strategy.
Greater emphasis is also being given to increasing agricultural production
and rural incomes. Korea's developmental strategy will, of course, have to
be kept under close and constant review, so as to adapt it to changing cir-
cumstances. The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) affords an op-
portunity for a careful reconsideration of strategy; the Government has been
extended financial assistance by the UNDP to meet the cost of consultants
(and fellowships for Korean staff) to assist with preparation of the Plan
during the next 12 months, and the Bank is acting as Executing Agency.
18.       Korea will in all probability be capable of sustaining an annual
growth rate of GNP of 8 percent during the next decade, provided the large
external capital inflows required to meet the sizeable balance of payments
deficits are available on reasonable terms. Considering that 90 percent of
Korea's exports now consist of manufactured goods, that its links with the



- 6 -
Japanese economy remain strong, that vigorous efforts are being made to
penetrate new markets (especially in Europe and the Middle East) and that
some progress has already been made in diversifying the industrial struc-
ture, a long-term real growth rate of exports of at least 12 percent appears
possible even if world trade in manufactures shou:Ld expand at a much slower
rate. However, this would represent a substantially slower export growth
than in the past, and Korean plans already envisage greater emphasis on
import substitution in three key areas (a) foodgrains, (b) energy and (c)
machinery production, all of which will probably mean sharply higher in-
vestment costs per unit of output.
19.       The Government is aware of the need for careful monetary and fiscal
management in the months ahead. The ability to contain the balance of pay-
ments deficit will depend partly on the speed of the recovery of exports and
partly on the Government's determination to narrow the fiscal deficit and to
reduce the rate of domestic credit creation. However, substantial reduction
in the current account deficit is likely to take several years unless the
upturn in the U.S., Japanese and other OECD economies is very sharp in the
years after 1975. Finding the means to finance the external deficits will
continue to be Korea's most urgent economic challenge. The servicing of the
sizeable foreign borrowing required should not pose serious difficulties for
Korea given the present debt service ratio and the long-term prospects for
continued export growth, provided that the proportion of debt incurred on
short- and medium-terms and at high interest rates is not excessive. The
debt service ratio stood al: about 13 percent at the end of 1974. It is
expected to rise moderately to around 16 percent by 1980 and decline to
less than 15 percent by the mid-1980's.
PART IX - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       As of August 31, 1975, Korea had received 21 Bank Loans and 8 IDA
Credits, amounting in total to $854.7 million in loans and $107.0 million
in credits (taking into account cancellations and the refinancing of one
IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
21.       Nearly one-half of the total has been for the transport sector --
$219.7 million for railways, $101.5 million for highways and $80 million for
ports. $130.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects. The Korea
Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million and the
Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million in Bank loans for relending to
private industry. A program loan of $100 million was made for the financing
of urgently required imports of capital and intermediate goods. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0
million for a tourism project; and $15.0 million for a secondary cities
project.
22.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had, by
August 31, 1975, entered into nine commitments: five in the financial sector
and one each in the fields of textiles, electrical and electronic products,
synthetic fibers and tourism, totalling $30.5 million (net of participations



and cancellations). Currently, IFC has under advanced consideration a zinc
smelting project and a project involving the leasing of industrial equipment;
under preliminary consideration are projects in the fields of steel products,
cement distribution, electric motors, bearings, and tire manufacturing.
23.       Korea's industrial development programs require large capital
expenditures in the private sector, a situation which enhances the need for
IFC presence. With the closer relationship established as a result of
recent promotional efforts, it is expected that IFC's activities will con-
tinue to expand rapidly. IFC would seek projects that would: (i) result
in foreign exchange revenues or savings; (ii) help to modernize or deepen
the industrial structure; and (iii) increase value added in manufacturing.
24.       As of August 31, 1975 about $482 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits. The rate of disburse-
ments has increased in recent months. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and
Notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes,
progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory, although
difficulties have been encountered with some projects and most seriously
with the Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects (Loan 600
and Loan 795/Credit 283, respectively).
25.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the programs for FY76 and FY77. The pro-
posed project will help the Government's efforts to develop the dairy in-
dustry. In addition, a rural infrastructure project has just been appraised,
and the Miho and Naeseong Cheon area development project pre-appraised. A
second stage of the Yong San Gang Irrigation Project and the Okseo irriga-
tion and regional development project have already been identified and are
under preparation. Follow-on projects in agricultural credit and agricul-
tural products processing are also under consideration.
26.       The development of the industrial and agricultural sectors and
of exports will require concurrent infrastructural development. Although
the transport sector will be given relatively less emphasis than in the
past, the investments required are large, and thus there is considerable
support for this sector in the proposed program.
27.       The Government is intensifying its efforts to prepare projects
suitable for external official financing in the fields of infrastructure,
agriculture and regional development. The foreign exchange component of
such projects is low, partly because they consist largely of civil works,
and Korea's construction industry is efficient and well organized and wins
an overwhelming proportion of contracts put out to international competi-
tion; its dependence on imports is expected to lessen in the future. More-
over, the country's capacity to meet its requirements of machinery and
equipment from domestic sources is also increasing. Korea's need for of-
ficial aid therefore cannot be met if financing is confined to the foreign
exchange costs of projects. For this reason the Bank should continue to be
prepared to finance, in appropriate cases, a portion of. local costs.



28.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1974 was about 6.0 percent, and the share
of debt service was of the order of 2.4 percent at that time. These ratios
are expected to increase somewhat by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
29.       Korea's geo-physical features have been a principal determinant
of the pattern of its agricultural development. There is a concentration
of settlement, intensive farming and irrigation development on the allu-
vial plains along the coastal areas in the West and South, increased
double cropping moving from North to South, frequent drought and flood
damage to crops and widespread occurrence of acidic soils. Of the 2.3
million hectares of cultivated land, the lowland and river valleys constitute
about 60 percent, on which rice is grown; the balance is made up of the
foothills bordering the paddy fields, on which upland crops and fruits and
vegetables are cultivated, and the forest lands at the higher altitudes.
30.       The extraordinary expansion of Korea's export-oriented manufactur-
ing sector in recent years has, to a certain extent, obscured the tangible
and impressive, albeit less spectacular, gains made by the country's agri-
cultural sector; over the 1962-74 period its output increased by about 3.5
percent per annum (a rate comparable with that attained by Thailand, Indo-
nesia and the Philippines). Korea's agricultural exports (including those
of the fisheries sub-sector) rose from about $70 million equivalent in 1967
to approximately $423 million in 1974. Further, despite the steady increase
in industrial wages, rising agricultural productivity and increased farmgate
prices have contributed towards the achievement of near-parity in the earn-
ings of urban and rural households. These achievements are all the more
commendable in view of the fact that, because of the geo-physical features
referred to above, only about a quarter of Korea's total land area of 10
million hectares is cultivable.
31.       Nevertheless, the growth of agricultural output has not kept pace
with domestic requirements. This has caused the Government to be increas-
ingly concerned with the need to raise agricultural productivity and to
devote additional resources to the development of the agriculture sector.
More than three times the resources budgeted for agriculture in the previous
Five Year Plan (1967-71) are included in the current Plan (1972-76).
32.       The two major strands of the Government's agricultural develop-
ment strategy are: (a) the encouragement of grain cultivation to relieve
the strain which food imports place on the balance of payments; and (b)
the expansion of the output of fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, tobacco,
mulberry and livestock to increase farm incomes and to utilize labor more
fully. The Bank Group's lending for agriculture in Korea has been aimed
at assisting in the attainment of these objectives.



9-
33.       Of the $130.5 million lent, to date, for agricultural projects,
$93 million was provided for the Pyongtaek-Kumgang (Loan 600-KO) and
Yong San Gang (Loan 795/Credit 283-KO) Irrigation Projects which are
expected to provide irrigation for, and improve drainage on, over
68,000 ha of land; $10.5 million for an Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
335-KO), which is supporting a three year lending program for the provision
of medium- and long-term credit through the National Agricultural Coopera-
tive Federation (NACF), to develop orchards, sericulture, mushroom pro-
duction and to encourage the breeding of poultry and swine; $7.0 million
Loan for the Seeds Project (942-KO) which is helping to develop new higher
yielding varieties of cereal crops, oil seeds and potato for multiplication
and distribution to farmers; $13.0 million for the Integrated Agriculture
Products Processing Project (994-KO) aimed at integrating the on-farm
production of commercial crops on land that was idle or under-utilized
with efficient and hygienic processing facilities. A $7.0 million Credit
(234-Ko) helped finance the Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project
(hereafter referred to as the First Project), which was a forerunner of the
proposed project; its main components are the establishment of small- and
medium-sized dairy farms by providing long-term loans, the construction
and operation of two dairy products processing plants and the provision of
management and technical services related to these activities. A short
description of these Projects and their current status is given in Annex II.
Details regarding the progress of the First Project are given in paragraphs
41-44 below.
Agricultural Institutions
34.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) (particularly its
Agricultural Production Bureau) has major responsibilities for planning and
supervising agricultural development programs, but they are carried out
mainly by special agencies such as the Office of Rural Development (ORD)
and NACF. The ORD has responsibility for agricultural research and rural
guidance (extension) employing about 800 research scientists and about 6,000
rural guidance workers. The NACF is a nation-wide organization comprising
about 1,800 primary cooperatives and 148 special purpose cooperatives for
marketing and providing credit for the production of livestock, horticultural
and other crops. About 90 percent of all farmers are members. NACF also
carries out Government price support programs, provides insurance to farmers
and distributes production inputs to farmers.
35.       There are more than 180 agricultural high schools and 16 agricul-
tural colleges, 13 of which offer training in livestock production, manage-
ment and processing and in veterinary medicine. Short courses are available
to farmers through the extension service. The Korea-New Zealand Demonstra-
tion Dairy Farm at Pyongtaek, administered by the Korea Dairy Beef Company
(KDBC), provides practical training in dairy production and management.
36.       The Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC), a
government agency under MAF, was established by special legislation in 1967
to foster agro-industry development in Korea by financing equity investments
and providing long-, medium- and shlort-term loans, encouraging domestic



- 10 -
and foreign investments, providing technical and managerial assistance
and training to borrowers, and developing domestic and export markets.
37.       KDBC was estabi1shed by AFDC in February 1969 as a quasi-government
institution; 40 percent of its share capital is owned by Government and 60
percent by private shareholders. The objective of this enterprise parallels
the national policy of fostering investments in the livestock industry to
increase the protein food supply while also providing the rural population
with wider opportunities to increase their cash income. KDBC is the exec-
uting agency for the First Project. In the short time KDBC has been in
operation, it has demonstrated its strength in the technical and quality
control aspects of processing, in engineering planning and execution and
in on-farm development. However, KDBC's management needs strengthening
particularly in procurement administration and in marketing. The proposed
project would aim at improving KDBC's capacity in these areas through tech-
nical assistance.
Dairy Products Sub-Sector
38.       Milk processing operations commenced in Korea in 1962.   Prior to
1965, Korea imported more than 90 percent of all its milk product needs,
virtually all of which it received as grants under bilateral aid arrange-
ments.  In 1965, the Government banned commercial imports, and in 1972 all
gift imports were suspended. The embargo on the importation of practically
all milk products is part of a Government program to strengthen the dairy
processing sub-sector and raise incomes of those farmers owning unproduc-
tive land.
39.       The Government's policy towards the processing sub-sector is to
encourage cooperatives, and private and semi-private companies to develop
the facilities required to satisfy the national demand for dairy products.
The total installed processing capacity in Korea is about 180,000 mt per
year and total production is about 175,000 mt. By 1985, total production
to meet demand projections and utilize raw milk supplies is likely to be
about 860,000 mt. A rapid expansion in investment in dairy processing is
required to meet this level of production. It is expected that, by 1981,
the production of fluid mllk will absorb 50 percent of available raw milk
supplies, baby milk powder about 19 percent, frozen milk products about 10
percent, milk powders about 19 percent and that 2 percent will be used in
the manufacture of coffee creamers, yoghurts, cheese, etc. A substantial
expansion of milk drying facilities is required to provide for the increasing
demand for baby milk powder and other powders used to provide milk solids
to food processing industries. A steady expansion of fluid milk plants is
also required, but by far the largest gap to be filled in milk processing
will be in respect of frozen milk products. The Seoul-Incheon area is
relatively well supplied, but there is a need for more facilities to supply
the Busan-Yeongnam area in the south which has a population of about four
million. The plans for the development of such facilities during the rest
of the decade rely heavily on the implementation of the proposed project.



40.       In seeking to encourage investment in the dairy industry, the
Government has pursued a basic policy of maintaining profitability by
guaranteeing basic prices, promoting efficient marketing systems and
allowing higher prices for quality goods. (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agree-
ment.) At present, the Government establishes minimum prices for milk at
the farm gate, guides maximum ex-factory prices for fluid milk in bottles,
and controls the ex-factory price of baby milk powder. Prices for other
dairy products, e.g. flavored milks, prepack and tetrapack fluid milk, as set
by producers, must be justified to the MAF in consultation with the Economic
Planning Board (EPB). Powdered milk (except for baby milk powder) and ice-
cream prices are uncontrolled. These measures, which reflect the Government's
desire to develop the dairy sub-sector, have been adopted at some economic
cost, since the CIF prices of importable milk products are lower than the
cost of production of such products locally.
KDBC's Dairy Development Program
41.       KDBC's ongoing program was financed by IDA Credit 234-KO which
became effective in August 1971 with KDBC as the executing agency. Its
objective is to increase the national milk supply through a credit program
for dairy development on unutilized upland. Stimulus for the KDBC program
arose from the rapid increase in the cost of imported feeds and the difficulty
of obtaining reliable overseas supplies. This meant that, if Korea was to
have an adequate foundation for its dairy industry, it would need to reduce
its reliance on imported stockfeeds and substitute these with locally grown
pasture and forage crops. To date, about 580 farmers have participated and
farm loans amounting to $4.5 million equivalent have been approved. Some
4,900 head of cattle have been imported and the two dairy processing plants
have been constructed and are in operation. The Credit of $7.0 million has
been almost fully disbursed.
42.       Problems with pasture establishment, artificial insemination and
calf rearing, together with the rising cost of farm inputs, caused the bene-
fits to be somewhat less than had been expected. Further, project farms
have been supplied with pregnant heifers instead of heifer calves as origi-
nally planned, since the farmers wished to obtain cattle closer to lactation
to expedite the generation of cash incomes. The higher costs of importing
in-calf heifers and of transportation resulted in the allocation of five
cows on average per farm instead of the minimum of seven envisioned at
appraisal. Many farmers had made investments in buildings, plant and
machinery and pasture establishment to accommodate more cattle than they
received. Consequently, overheads were greater and farm incomes lower than
expected. It is to rectify this situation that an adequate number of cows
will be imported under the proposed project to enable the allocation of a
minimum of eight cows per farm.
43.       Delays have been experienced also in the construction of the
processing facilities. This, together with the commencement of milk flows
earlier than expected on account of the procurement of in-calf heifers,
compelled KDBC to resort temporarily to selling the milk to other processors
at no profit and, at times, to paying farmers prices lower than those they



- 12 -
could have obtained from ol:her processing concerns. However, since mid-1974
the processing plants constructed under the First Project have been in full
operation; KDBC has assumed its role as a marketing and processing agency
and the financial condition of some of the farmers has begun to improve.
The technical services for both the processing and farm development components
of the First Project have been satisfactory.
44.       The activities and investments included in the proposed project
were selected on the basis of experience gained in the First Project by the
Government, KDBC and farmers.   The First Project has demonstrated that dairy
farms can be established on idle low rolling to hilly land with poor and
shallow soils. It has provided important data about the costs of milk
production utilizing pasture and fodder crops under Korean conditions, and
has pointed the way to further efficiencies in dairy farm operations in Korea,
particularly the reduction in the amount of concentrates needed to sustain
production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Second Integrated Dairy Development
Project" (No. 824-KO, dated October 13, 1975) is being distributed separately.
A Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington from September 15 to September 23 with a Korean delegation led
by Mr. Park, Jong Keun, of the Economic Planning Board.
46.       The proposed project has been designed to meet the Government's
objectives for accelerated growth of the dairy industry. It would continue
growth in the subsector supported by the First Project and, by utilizing
improved technology, would lead to greater efficiency in dairy production
in Korea. Specifically, the proposed project would consist of:
(a)  the establishment of about 450 new dairy farms each of
which would initially have 8 heifers (estimated cost:
$11.2 million, including contingencies);
(b)  the continuation of the development begun as part of
the First Project on about 400 dairy farms, by increas-
ing the number of heifers on each to ensure their
long-term financial viability (estimated cost: $2.7
million, including contingencies);
(c)  (i) the expansion of the two existing processing plants
which produce baby milk-powder, sterilized fluid milk, and
wholemilk powders; (ii) the diversification of the present
plants to include production of butterfat, evaporated milk,
and powdered coffee creamer; (iii) the establishment of two
milk collection centers; (iv) the provision of approximately
50 small milk cooling units; and (v) the construction of a
frozen milk products plant at Yeongnam (estimated cost:
$8.8 million, including contingencies); and



- 13 -
(d) the expansion of technical services for both farm
development and milk processing (estimated cost:
$1.8 million, including contingencies).
Detailed features of the project are described below:
Project Location
47.       The First Project developed two regions - Central and Honam (see
Map). The Central region is roughly 50-150 km south of Seoul and is served
by KDBC's central milk processing plant at Jinui. The Honam region is 300-
400 km south of Seoul and is served by the second of KDBC's milk processing
plants at Gwangju. The proposed project would develop facilities in
additional counties in the two regions and also cover a new region, Yeongnam,
which lies in the south-east of Korea, 50 to 150 km north-east of Busan.
Farm Development
48.       As mentioned in paragraph 46(a) and (b) above, the proposed project
would involve the establishment of about 450 new dairy farms and the
expansion and improvement of 400 existing ones. Pasture and area development
on the dairy farms would include brush clearing, sowing of grasses and
legumes, fencing, and improvement of the access roads. Animals would be
housed in conventional stall barns, and be hand milked. The owner and one
cowhand are expected to be able to manage up to 10 milking cows. The equip-
ment to be provided for each farm would include a small silage cutter, a
one third share in a petrol motor for the cutter, an electric fence, milk
cans and a milk cooler. A well, hand-pump, piping and a trough would be
provided to ensure an adequate water supply. The cowhand would be provided
with simple housing in the cowbarn and a haybarn would be erected with suf-
ficient storage space for fertilizers and machinery. Simple silage pits
would be built to store winter feed.
49.       Farmers are expected to follow the existing practice of stall
feeding their animals in the first few years of project implementation.
However, with improved knowledge of pasture management obtained from up-
graded field extension services, it is envisaged that farmers will even-
tually resort to grazing their growing herds to help economize on labor
costs. When weather prevents grazing, cattle would be fed chopped fodder
supplemented with concentrate feeds, and in winter, silage made from forage
crops, hay and concentrate feed. The cost of establishing each new farm
(excluding contingencies) is estimated at W 7.9 million ($16,400), of which
about half would be for the purchase of livestock.
50.       The continuation of development on existing farms would involve:
(a) the purchase of additional pregnant heifers to raise the cow herd to
eight per farm, and of milk cans and coolers; and (b) the renovation of
existing, and the establishment of additional, pasture. These farms have
adequate land, machinery, and space in their cowbarns to accommodate the
additional heifers and their progeny. Most of the farms in this group
have on average five milking cows and require assistance to purchase



- 14 -
three additional heifers; renovate four heto-,) o£ exi.stlf r.isture, estab-
lish two hectares of new pasture and develop O.5 hectares m)f additional
forage cropland.  The incremental costs involved per farm (excluding con-
tingencies) would be W 2.2 million ($4,600): of t.--s, a,ou. W 15 I  illion
($3,000) would be for livestock.
51.       The dairy farms, both new and existing, would be stocked with high-
grade pregnant Friesian heifers. A total of about 4,800 prea2nat heifers
would be imported and distributed to project farmers.
Milk Processing Facilities
52.       The proposed project willl help raise ,     s  oKe s    capaclty
to meet the incremental milk flow from existirng and new farms until 1987.
The new facilities will include the installation of a fro;ze fAik orodructs
plant in the Yeongnam region with a basic capacil:y of 5,000 kg per hour
for raw milk.  This plant will enable KDBC to erpand dairy processing and
its farm technical servic,es to new farm areas; it is expected to cost about
$4.6 million, including the cost of start-up materials but excluding
contingencies, of which $3.3 million would be in foreig-n exchange
53.       Investments in the Honam plant at Gwangju i-i1 include the exten-
sion of milk sterilizing equipment to raise capacity by about 50 percent
to a daily throughput of (5- mt of raw milk.   :hL',e Cent--ol. pThnt near
Seoul, the evaporator unit will be enlarged and an additional ultra high
temperature heater, which would enable KDBC to double miJ.r dryving capacity
to about 80 mt per day, purchased.   Provision has been made for additional
equipment to utilize the drying capacity at the Central plant to produce
a powdered coffee creamer, which is marketed in Japan. A condensed milk
evaporator will also be installed at the Central plant to provide for in-
creased production of baby milk powder and at the same Atxe provide con-
centrated milk solids for the Yeongnam plant. A milk separatort/standardizer
will also be required for each of the plarts to clarify xiJ.k to provide addi-
tional butterfat. Two electric generators, 500 KVA, have been included for
the Central and Yeongnam plants to reduce production shutdowns during power
shortages.  Also, a recently enacted Korean law will require the provision
of waste treatment equipment at the Central plant by 1976. Two 10 mt/day
milk collection centers will be provided, one in the Central region and the
other in the Honam region, to improve the flexibility in milk reception and
considerably reduce milk collection costs. Fifty small cooling stations for
groups of farmers are also included to reduce milk spoilage and improve the
efficiency of milk collec:ion. One 10 mt tanker would be provided for each
of the processing plants. Including the cost of start-up materials, but
excluding contingencies, these investments are expected to cost $0.5 million
($0.4 million in foreign exchange) for the Honam plant and $1.3 million
($0.8 million in foreign exchange) for the Central plant.



- 15 -
Technical Services and Training
54.       The implementation of the proposed project will require technical
assistance in a variety of areas. Accordingly, the provision of support
for the following activities is included in the project: farm development
planning; farm management and veterinary advisory services; farmer training;
processing plant location studies, plant design and preparation of bid docu-
ments, and evaluation of bids for plant construction; product marketing
studies; KDBC's financial management; and applied research. This technical
support would either be a continuation of, or complementary to, the assist-
ance provided under the First Project. The number of farm extension officers
would be increased from 9 to 21 by the third year of the project and the
number of technical specialists from 5 to 9. There would be one field ex-
tension officer for every 50 new farms. Four internationally recruited
technical specialists would be engaged to provide technical support and
training in dairy farm management, animal health and nutrition, pasture
management and forage crop production, and milk processing.
55.       New dairy farmers would be trained for four weeks at the Korea-
New Zealand Dairy Demonstration Farm at Pyongtaek, while farmers on existing
five cow farms would be required to attend a 10 day training course. A one
week refresher course would be offered farmers a year after receiving their
cattle and regular one day seminars would be held in each of the three milk
producing areas for the first four years of project implementation.
56.       The increase and diversification of the milk products which will
result from the proposed project necessitate a considerable strengthening
of KDBC's marketing department. A marketing specialist familiar with the
Korean milk products market is to be hired by KDBC. The technical serv-
ices required in connection with the start-up of the Yeongnam plant will
be covered by an agreement, probably with the supplier, on a fee-paying
basis.
57.       Pasture and forage crop trials initiated during the First Project,
particularly those investigating optimum fertilizer application rates, will
be continued and extended into the Yeongnam region. Nutritional studies
will be undertaken to determine profitable mixes of pasture, conserved for-
age and concentrate feeds. Calf rearing trials, including an evaluation of
milk replacers, will be initiated. The overall objective of research work
under this project would be to provide farmers with the necessary informa-
tion and guidance to enable them to improve the management of their farms.
58.       The total cost of the technical assistance to be provided (includ-
ing the cost of 12 motorcycles for the extension officers and four jeeps
for the technical advisors) is estimated at $1.3 million ($1.1 million in
foreign exchange).



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated to be $24.46 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange collponent of $15.0 million (61 percent). The proposed
financing plan is set out in the table below.
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(in $ million)
Category            Farmers     MAF/NACF    KDBC    Bank Loan    %     Total
Dairy Farm
Development          2.61        3.88      -        7.42       53    13.91
Dairy Processing
Facilities and
Start-up
Materials                         -        2.70      6.06      69     8.76
Management and
Technical
Services              -           -         .27     1.52       85     1.79
Total            2.61         3.88      2.97     15.00      61    24.46
Percent of
Total         11           16        12       61               100
60.       The proposed Bank loan will cover all foreign exchange costs.    It
will be onlent to KDBC with interest at 8.5 percent and a repayment period
of 15 years, including six years of grace.   To minimize the financial burden
on KDBC, the Government has agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk on
Bank funds onlent for farm development and technical services; KDBC will
bear thie foreign exchange risk on the portion of the Bank loan used for
the expansion of the milk processing facilities.   Of the Government con-
tribution of $3.9 million, $0.8 million will be a direct subsidy to farmers
for pasture development through MAF and $3.1 million will be in the form of
a loan to KDBC from NACF, which will bear interest at the rate of 9 percent and
be repayable over nine years, including four years of grace. The farmers'
contribution will cover about 28 percent of dairy development costs, excluding
contingencies. The balance of the estimated total project cost will be met
by increasing the capitalization of KDBC from $1.2 million to $4.2 mil-
lion. A schedule relating to the capital increase was discussed and agreed
during negotiations; these funds will be provided either through a share
capital increase or through "bridging" loans to KDBC by NACF or other
appropriate government agencLes, or through a combination thereof.
61.       The Government will onlend Bank funds to KDBC at the same interest
rate as the Bank loan; however, the Bank loan will be repaid over a period
of 25 years, including seven years of grace, while KDBC will repay the Gov-
ernment in 15 years, including a grace period of six years. KDBC will relend
the Bank funds and the portion of the NACF funds to be used for investment in



- 17 -
buildings, plant and water supply at 12 percent with repayment over nine years,
including a grace period of three years. The repayment period will be the same
for NACF funds lent for pasture establishment, but the interest rate would be
9 percent in line with the rate levied on Government loans for similar pur-
poses. The term of the proposed Bank loan reflects country considerations
and, in particular, Korea's need to obtain favorable terms on a significant
portion of the external financing it requires in order to ease the long term
debt service burden (see paragraph 19). The terms of the Government loan to
KDBC and KDBC's onlending terms are designed to enable them to meet their debt
service obligations on the basis of projected overall cash flow requirements.
Project Implementation
62.       As the executing agency for the proposed project, KDBC will be
responsible for (a) planning, disbursement and supervision of farm develop-
ment loans; (b) planning, financing, construction and operation of the milk
processing facilities; (c) applied research in pasture, fodder crop and
animal nutrition; (d) product marketing and marketing research; and (e)
local training of KDBC staff and of participating farmers and the imple-
mentation of a farm extension program. Participating farmers would be
selected by KDBC in consultation with county livestock officials, who would
also be responsible for arranging MAF grants for pasture establishment.
Procurement
63.       International competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines will be applied for the purchase of machinery, equipment and
start-up materials for dairy processing facilities. Vehicles to serve the
processing facilities and civil works contracts for the construction of the
dairy processing facilities will be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; foreign contractors would be eligible to bid. This arrangement
is considered appropriate since the Korean construction industry is
experienced, efficient and competitive, and several local plants, each
with a foreign affiliate, ensure a competitive and adequate supply of vehi-
cles. For the purchase of cattle, KDBC would submit to the Bank for its
agreement a list of at least three countries from which suitable disease-
free livestock could be imported. After agreement on the list, quotations
will be sought from suppliers in these countries. Other goods required
for dairy farm development such as farm machinery, milk cans, fencing,
fertilizers, seeds and farm structures will be obtained through existing
commercial channels. International competitive bidding would not be
appropriate since individual contracts would be small and numerous and
the size and combination of farm investments would vary considerably.
There are no discriminatory import quotas or controls. Imports of
cattle, farm machinery, and dairy equipment are exempt from import
duties.



- 18 -
64.       Vehicles and motorcycles required for the technical services com-
ponent of the proposed project will be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally.
Disbursements
65.       Disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would
be made on the basis of:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on imported cattle;
(b) 25 percent of the loans (excluding the cost of cattle)
disbursed by KDBC to participating farmers;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported machinery,
equipment, plant start-up materials, milk tankers and
trucks, or 100 percent of local expenditures based on
ex-factory cost; 44 percent (the imputed foreign exchange
component) of civil works expenditures for the dairy
processing facilities; and
(d) 85 percent of total expenditures (net of tax) for manage-
ment and consultant services to include emoluments,
international travel, housing and research allowances;
85 percent of total expenditures for jeeps and motorcyles.
Benefits and Justification
66.       The farms to be developed under the project are considerably
larger than the national average, but since much of the farm area is not
cultivable, average net on-farm income per household is of the order of
300,000 won, or about half the national average. Financial projections
for the proposed project show that the increased net income of farmers
participating in the proposed project would be W 2.8 million ($5,835) at
full devefopment. These figures imply that new farm investments have an
estimated financial rate of return of 20 percent. Since existing farms
can support the increase in herd of 3 cows without further investments
in buildings, water supply and farm plant, the rate of return on project
investments is expected to be some 8 percent higher than that of the new
farms. The project will, therefore, help the participating farmers to
achieve their share of the growth in incomes projected for Korea generally
in the next decade.
67.       The proposed project at full capacity would supply 5,470 mt of
sterilized milk at Honam with a market value in constant prices of $2.8
million. The Central plant would produce an additional 1834 mt of baby
powder milk marketable at about $5.1 million and 466 mt of powdered coffee
creamer marketable at about $1.9 million. The Yeongnam plant would produce
11,000 mt of frozen milk products with a value of $17.7 million.



- 19 -
68.       The rates of return on the processing component of the proposed
project are expected to be high. The expansion of the Central plant would
have a rate of return of 37 percent, the Honam expansion 31 percent, and
the installation of the Yeongnam plant 37 percent.
69.       The project would directly benefit 850 farm households with a
population of 4,250 and would develop about 4,600 ha. of unutilized land
and 2,000 ha. of partially developed land. On-farm employment would be
created for 800-1000 permanent workers and about 3,500 casual laborers.
The capital cost per full-time job created, including those employed in
farm households, would be about $3,000. The proposed development of the
milk processing facilities and the additional staff required in KDBC to
implement the project would provide an additional 155 jobs.
70.       Although the available data on nutrition and consumption patterns
in Korea are not comprehensive, given the per capita income and the very
substantial increase in the supply of high protein milk products that will
result from this project, it is likely to prove to be nutritionally
beneficial.
71.       The project will support the Government's policy of placing
increasing emphasis on agricultural projects which would enable farmers
to diversify their production and utilize their labor more fully. It
would afford farmers the opportunity of utilizing their labor year round,
of spreading their risk between crop production and milk production, of
building a revenue-earning asset from previously unproductive upland, and
of sharing in the benefits from the improvements to public utilities such
as roads, rural electrification, educational and medical facilities, sti-
mulated by development of this type.
72.       The project will facilitate the introduction of technological
improvements which will have a bearing not only on more efficient livestock
production, but also on lessening the dependence of such production on food-
grains which could be used for human consumption. It also reflects the
overall Government strategy for rural development, which emphasizes the
structural change in the rural economy which would be brought about by
rapid expansion of decentralized industrial employment and by consolida-
tion of agricultural resources into viable production units capable of
maintaining or improving the relative income position of farmers in an
industrialized economy.
73.       The economic rate of return was obtained after the adjustment of
the main benefits and costs valued in terms of border prices or the border
prices of their tradeable components, and by the elimination of taxes and
subsidies. On this basis, the project has an estimated economic rate of
return of 15 percent.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANT) AUTRORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, a draft Project Agreement between the Bank and KDBC, the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Loan and Project Agreements contain covenants normally included
in agreements for projects of this kind. The relending of the proceeds of
the loan will be governed by the terms of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be concluded between the Republic of Korea
and KDBC. Local funds to be provided for onlending to project farmers
will be lent to KDBC by the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
which will also be a party to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 3.01(b)
of the Loan Agreement).   The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries' direct
subsidy for pasture establishment shall be granted to farmers to be selected
jointly by KDBC and the relevant county government (Sections 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement and 2.10 of the Project Agreement). Pursuant to Section
2.08(b) of the Project Agreement, KDBC will increase its authorized capital
to Won 2,027 million. In addition to these features, the following special
conditions of effectiveness have been included in the Loan Agreement:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement, duly authorized and
ratified by all necessary corporate or governmental
action (Section 6.01 (a) and (b));
(b) the provision of W 120 million, either through a share
capital increase or loans, or a combination of both,
as explained in paragraph 60 herein (Section 6.01 (c));
and
(c) the transfer of title to the Korea-New Zealand
Demonstration farm from the Agriculture and Fish-
ery Development Corporation to KDBC (Section
6.01(d)).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. MlcNamara
President
Attachment s
October 15, 1975



1                              .  -  -  -.-  .. il algtla i 9 ......... l§§l ii-| t33
|  B ~~ =  O_ g W&   - O~  W i2 r tH 2 N a &  2 S  O t t t 1 3Al . 4@ 
A~~~ ~ a," 1-^ -^ I>                                              - . i|    i 
5_ 55t-<  hfl :: !3  >>S  :  eiu B5: anda XaY  35^00!ini1      ik- |X. St| ii
°~1                     .... °  R 5gs^ ..|: R -  ::-|*<e|' LiiI|Zi 
S~~~~0 e !!> 1 §! '' ll



ANNEx 1
EC~ONOMIC IEVITO      DAflTA                                           rage 2 of 3 Pagas
(miust in miUllona of U.. dol-lars)
Acua                          Poetd197?-                    1974 -   1975 -    1980-     97       95      28
1972      173      17                    96      1l                                    95-        ~     17 
197  Pricse  m   Exchan.Rt                   Aler eAnua Growth Rates             As Percent of GIYY
Gross Doestic Product            10,749    12568    13.590     1424       5,4     2118        1.       4.       81        87       0.     154     10.
Gains team Term_ of Trde (+)    -38       -       -721       -729      -71. 1,~ .3                           -         -      -5.6
Gross ~~s,estic Income  167~~I2i  i~7~8  l2,~9  l33T~     ZX~3 19,925          9.6     5.0      8.1       8.6    17WTh     00.
Import (imcl. Ni'S)               3,464     4,389    4,533      4,658     4,922    6,329      14.4     3.0      6.0       9.0     35.2     34.5    31.8
Exports       (import capacity)   Z,~        .2-8-6  L.,882     3.0-02     d82     L11        10.8     4.2     12.0      12.0    .22.     .22-2   .2~.
Resource Gap            ~~~~~~-1,115  -1,103  _I ,5l  -165        -1,54    -997       21.8    0.3      -9.3        -     -12.8    -12.2    -5.0
Conswption Expenditures           9,089     9,646    9,887     10,769    11,432   l4,945       4.3     8.9      6.8       7.3      76.8    79.7     75.0
Investment       (jocl. stocks)   2,352     3,246    4,000      3,799     3,937   5,311.      30.0     5.0      7.0      12.2     31.1     28.1   -26.7
Dmestic Savings                   1,821     3,103    2,866      2,389     2,927    4,997      25.5   -16.7     15.9     12.5      22.3     17.8    25.1
National Savings                  1,798     2,920    2,673      2,188     2,673    4,603      21.8   -18.1     16.0      13.0      20.8    16.2    23.1
MEICAIDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Pe-rcent of Total
baorts
Capital goods                     791     1,157    1,868      2,075     1,81     2,946      53.0    U.in      7.2     16.1        27      28      1
Intermsediat.e goods twLfusls) 1,100     2,109     2,9?90    3,120     '4,191   8,048       64,.8    4,.3    20.5      18.8      45       41       19
Pt,els and relatd materials  219 313    120        1,335     1,465   2,700      150.0    19.0     15.1     15.5       16       le      17
or which:   Petroleum           218      296     1,120     1,320      1,474   2,680      150.0   18.0      15.2     15.5       16       18      17
ConsM,io,ngoo~                     3         6        1          0         .71
tot                     L12       6i       )16       000 I3 L67       2154        49.               6       1.2        13      13 
Exports
Primary prodtucts ~=1. fluelaF    269       327      454        501       637   1,341       30.0    10.4     21.8     19.8       1         0      1
F8uols and related materials.,0                                                                                                           10      1
of which:   Petroleumy           18        35--108--15                  125      175  -160.0       6.0    -8.7        7.0       2        2       1
Manufactured go ods             I 33 6    2 909    307 u-S      384     5,1     11 891      68.     10.3     22.3      24.3       88      88       89
Total M4erch. Exprts (fob)      )77      ~  7      ~   7~6? ,375                                    0?       2.       1.       ~          ~
Tourism and Border. TradIe       '         -         -         -_2M                                                    9"       TM               T
Merchandise Trade Indices                     A,,r-g, 91,13      115)
Export Price Index              7T9.0     loG..     12 5.9   134.3      148.5   206.0       26.0    6.8       8.9      7.3
Imp-ort Price Index              74.9    100.0     156.0     166.8      181.8   247.3       44.5    6.9       8.?      7.2
Terms of' Trade Index           105.5    100.0      80.7      80.5       81.7    83.3      *.13.0  -0.2       0.7      0.1
Exports Volume Index             63.8    100.0     103.8     108.0      125.2   182.0       27.8    3.8      11.0     10.7
VAWLE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual. Data at 1973    Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     3,042    3,210     3,1,32    3-,544     3,686   4,250        6.2    3.3       3.7      2.0      28       28      23
industry and Mining             2,224    2,897     3,351     3,554      4,001   6,186       22.5    6.1      U.?      13.0      27       28      33
Service                         4  7   ~    07j-                                  00.74.                       77.      .6     _Tj _ L  L       _1
Total                   9,837~~~~~~er 11,L4 14 2,33B  12.,5I1371 11808              r2.               7.6      T3      10.0     100.0   100.0
PUB1LIC FINI4ACE                                                                                                                    As Percent of G01P
(C`entral Govern]ment)
Current Receipts                1,701    1,530     1,811,    1,839      2,103   3,321        3.3    1.4     12.5      10.0      13       13      16
Curre2nt    enditurees             5     1    1   1,379      1.509 2/   1 r63   2 153        0.1'   9.4       7.4      9.0      10      10       10
V.  etaryp Saigs3r2-37                              L          330                         I"     -47       In1TFT 23L-                          3
Other Public Sector                             - -  - 
Public Sector Investment         859       W45      580        621        714   1,563     -17.51    7.1     20.7      10.0       4       4        7
CUtRRENT EXPENDITURE DETAIILS                 Actual        Preim.     Eat.    Proj.       DETAIL ON                                   usA 197  P and o
As % Total current Expend.)                                         12Aza  2/9Th0PULIC SECTOR                                   1974     197    Average I
Education                                3.2      3.4       3.?      3.4      3.0        INVESTnIET PROGRAM4                                    U 19-75
Orther Social Services                   1.9     2.0        1.9 -   12.5     12.0        So-cial Sectors                         52      58       5i
Agriculture                              1.7      1.5       2.1      2.2      2.0        Agriculture                            167     223      18.5
Other Economic -Services                 2.2     2.0        2.4      3.1      5.0        Industry and Xining                    188     207      18.8
Administration and Defenste             76.0    75.8       76.2     65.6     65.o         Pow.er                                 94     105       9.5
OYther                                  15.0    15.3       14,.2    13.2     13.0        Transport and cmuinications            286      387     32.0
TtlCurrent Expenditures             1*b     IU.       IW.       IW.     1"           - Other                                      M~ 8        16.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ T ootal  E x p e n dituree s  rT T 3.6
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-     1965-     1970-   1975-       FIRANICIW)
1965       1970     1975    I1920
Average ICOR                                       2.7        2.3      3.9      3.2            Public S.ctor Savings              123      19       6.8
Import Elasticity                                  0.8       2.6       1.2     0.7            Dotwtic Borroving     /            659      893     73.7
MELrginal Iomestic Savings Rate                   30.0       34.8     12.4    25.0            Foreign Borrowing12                       TJ4         2-
Marginal National Savings Rate                    28.0       26.7      6.0     23.3           Total1 FinaLncinLg                                   O6
LABORN FORCE AND                                 Total K.mployment.                              Value Added Per,'darke (17e3- e     Prices   Ec. Rates)
OUrRYr PER WORKER                 in Millions         I f Total-          1572 - 74         InUSDlas           Preto        vrg            92 - 74
1972        1974    1972      1974w     Growth Rate         1972      1974        im        17         Grow'th -Rate
Agriculture                     5.3         6.0     50.c0      52.2         6.3             574        572         62         53         -0.3
Industry                        1.8         2.2     17.0      19.1         10.5           1,236     1,523         133       14W          11.0
Service                       J1- .                                                                 ~    .                    71X.5
Tota.l                         ~~~~~~11.5  100.0   100.0          4.2            928      1,073        100        100
icable  - 011 or negltgsble      1V   Includes processed primar-y products.           ~          Devslopment budgst.
not appliabe            ni     r  easileRed ono merchandise an                        o-atr       evn,/              Residual (Economic Repo5t)
not available        -.less than half the        ~          ugt               0Y andinon-fac(tanufactires
smallest unit shovnBug                                                                  V     ukrg(mnfcre
Economic functional classification of Central Gov't. gErpendjt,,,g.



~a *Z r.3                        N .40 a Xr 
t  rx o. @ _  I <2  s 4  I  1  0  0I- * o
H  r     1s g   g   M   c   _  r  t   s   g   ct   =  es> >  r a a   v   r  t.. .  . .   . . .   . . .
z ;A uz E1 hi  N h ;1    N
O'g,~~~~~~. 
-   nr-l,..  .. -4 *-|-    .   .A..   ...
a  stSwt S°  fib  **1- a   1         .S~a,
i    t-   a  iI-        a.a.aaa   .0: :.Caaa.N  I
a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~a
* ~ ~~   ~ 2;st  3:  0 0   _   o   or8§R  .  0  
; X = i t:2 t 4                   80  a  0t5L!Cgab ^ . . 
9  a O.  e*_30o



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE RIPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as at August 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                               US- Million
Credit                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year        Borrower               Purpose           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans and credits fully disbursed                         24.7    39.7
600       1969         ADC                Irrigation           45.0               5.5
151       1969         Republic of        Education                    14.8       2.3
Korea
669       1970         Republic of        Railways            40.0                2.6
Korea
234       1971        Republic of         Livestock                     7.0        .3
Korea
735       1971        KDFC                Dev. Fin. Co.       30.0                 .9
769       1971         Republic of        Highways             54.5               1.14
Korea
283       1972         Republic of        Irrigation                   15.0       1.4
Korea
795       1972         ADC                Irrigation           33.0              32.2
335       1972         Republic of        Agricultural Cr.             10.5       1.9
Korea
863       1972         Republic of        Railways             40.0              11,0
Korea
905       1973         KDFC               Dev. Fin. Co.        40.0               4.9
906 &     1973         Republic of        Education II         23.0    20.0      42.8
394                    Korea
917       1973         Republic of        Ports                80.0              75.3
Korea
942       1973         Republic of        Seeds Production      7.0               6.6
Korea
953       1974         Republic of        Tourism              25.0              22.9
Korea
956       1974         Republic of        Highways II          47.0              25.7
Korea
994       1974         AFDC               Agriculture          13.0              12.9
1070      19M         Republic of        Secondary Cities     15.0              15.0
Korea
1094      1975         Republic of        Program Loan        100.0              33.8
Korea
1095      1975         KDB                Dev. Fin. Co.        60.0              60.0
1096      1975         Republic of        Third Education      22.5              22.5
Korea
1101      1975         Republic of        Fifth Railway       100.0             100.0
Korea
1145 a/   1975         KDFC               Dev. Fin. Co.        55.0              55.0
Total                                               854.7   107.0     536.9
of which has been repaid                          15.3       .
Total now outstanding                               839.14  106.5
Amount sold                   2.0
of which has been repaid     0.8                    1.2
Total now held by Bank and                         838.2    106.5
IDA (prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                  511.2     25.7
a/ Declared effective on September 5, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of d pages
B. Statement of IFC Investment (as at August 31, 1975)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business            Loan    Equity  Total
1968    KDFC                  Development financing           -      0.7     0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.        Textiles                       1.4     0.3     1.7
1970    Atlas Paper Co.       Pulp and paper                 4.5     0.5     5.0 V
1971    Korea Investment      Capital market development      -      0.7     0.7
and Finance Corp.
1974    KDFC                  Development financing           -      0.4     0.4
1974    Korea Investment      Capital market development      -      0.3     0.3
and Finance Co.
1975    Gold Star & Co.,      Electronic products           16.0     1.3    17.3
Ltd.
1975    Korea Securities      Capital market development     5.0     o.6     5.6
Finance Corp.
1975    Tong Yang Nylon       Synthetic fibers               6.9     2.1     9.0
Company, Ltd.
1975    Hae Un Dae            Tourism                        2.7     0.7     3.4
Development
Company, Ltd.
Total gross commitment                    36.5     7.6    44.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    12.8     0.8    13.6
Total commitments now held by IFC         2307     6.8    30.5
Total uniisbursed                          8.3     0.8     9.1
1/ Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 Dages
1/
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 600        Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project; US$45.0 million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 35,000 ha, improvement
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields, benching of upland
and tidal land reclamation. Construction was delayed by a reorganization
of the executing agency and a delay in hiring consultants. The major proj-
ect components (two sea dikes, the main distribution system and pumping
plants) were largely completed by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly
all of the remaining work have been awarded. Cost considerations have led
to the exclusion of about 5,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have
risen from US$90 million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely
because of the increased costs of right-of-way, engineering, administra-
tion and land consolidation. Preliminary estimates indicate increases in
the price of rice will partially offset the effects of higher costs and
reduced irrigable area. Thte economic rate of return is now estimated to
be about 10 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 14 percent.
The implementing agency (ADC) has reviewed ways of economizing on the
remaining work which should lead to some marginal cost savings. About
88 percent of the Loan has been disbursed. Construction is progressing
satisfactorily and is scheduled for completion by mid-1976.
Credit No. 151       First Education Project; US$14.8 million Credit
of June 4, 1969; Closing Date:   September 30, 1976
This Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural high schools, 5 post-secondary
higher schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b)
26 man-years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fel-
lowships to support the development of agricultural and technical educa-
tion. All civil works, furniture, technical assistance and fellowships
included in the Project have been completed. Equipment procurement is
more than 90 percent complete and the remaining 38 items are being ten-
dered. Disbursement has now reached about 85 percent of the total. The
total project cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent below the appraised
estimate. Due to delays irn final equipment procurement, the Closing
Date has been extended by nine months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projec:ts in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 669        Third Railway Project; US$40.0 million loan and
Credit No. 183      US$15.0 million Credit of May 14, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase of
freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track mainte-
nance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays in
the procurement of some microwave equipment which had to be re-tendered.
The Closing Date has been extended by a year to December 31, 1976 to pro-
vide adequate time for the completion of procurement.
Credit No. 234      Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project; US$7.0 million
Credit of February 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
See paragraphs 41-44 in the main text.
Loan No. 769        First Highway Project; US$54.5 million Loan of
June 29, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973, at
a final cost about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 1,100
km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of highway main-
tenance equipment.
Loan No. 795        Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 million Loan
Credit No. 283      and US$15.0 million Credit of February 2, 1972; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
This Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and
the work on four dams, the main canals and land consolidation has started.
Award of all major contracts have been made, although the delay on several
means that construction will begin roughly a year later than scheduled at
appraisal. The delay was caused mainly by increased costs due largely
to price escalation and design modification. The cost increases will
be partially compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement
of the area to be irrigated by about 1,400 ha., and ADC plans to reduce
costs by constructing only canals, roads and drainage systems for contour
furrow irrigation on all lands exceeding 2 percent slope. Also the Bank
has begun monitoring construction costs on each of the ten major civil
works contracts on a monthly basis.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Credit No. 335      Agricultural Credit Project:   US$10.5 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: September 1, 1976
The Credit supports a three year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and disbursement is proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 863        Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of lKorea; track and bridge renewal; provision of
yard facilities; acquisitLon of passenger and freight cars; and improve-
ment of facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and
rolling stock. No major problems have been encountered; nearly all of
the Loan proceeds have been committed.
Loan No. 905        Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 million Loan of June 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906        Second Education Project; US$23.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 394      US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of: 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and a
merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges of
education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and manage-
ment education. Implementation is about seven months behind schedule due
to delays in the preparation of equipment lists (civil works, which are
being financed by the Government, are slightly ahead of schedule). The
Project has encountered two problems: delays in equipment procurement
and lack of counterpart funds to cover cost overruns on civil works (about
75%). However, steps have been taken by the Government and the Bank to
overcome these problems and therefore implementation should improve within
the next six months. The Project is expected to be completed on schedule
by the end of 1977. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected
at appraisal due to the delay in the preparation of equipment lists but is
expected to improve.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan No. 917        Ports Project; US$80 million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment at
Busan and Mukho. Some contracts for dredging and pier construction have
been awarded. The design-work and preparation of tender documents for the
remaining items are proceeding satisfactorily. Revised cost estimates show
an increase of about 30 percent over appraisal estimates. A Phase II Port
Development Study and consultants' services in connection with the establish-
ment of a "Korean Port Authority" are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 942        Seeds Project; US$7.0 million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed produc-
tion; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irrigation
and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary legisla-
tive and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and establishing
an "Office of Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary estimates suggest
that Project costs would be somewhat higher than envisaged at appraisal; the
estimates are being reviewed.
Loan No. 953        Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first pbase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or re-
alignment of about 57 kms of roads; infrastructure including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, a golf course,
a school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the
development of tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all
Project components is complete and several contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 956        Second Highway Project; US$47.0 million Loan of
January 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly on
new alignments) of about 130 kms and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 635 km of national highways; feasibility studies



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
by consultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, fol-
lowed by detailed engineeriLng where justified; and the procurement of
highway maintenance and wor-kshop equipment for the extension of a new
highway maintenance prograa from a pilot province to the remainder of
the country. All construction and paving contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 994        Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 million Loan of June 7   1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of com-
mercial crops for export w:ith efficient hygienic processing facilities
using land that is presentLy idle or underutilized. It comprises (i)
on-farm development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) con-
struction of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak
mushrooms, mushrooms and fruits; and (iii) technical assistance includ-
ing training of staff, services of consultants, etc. The Project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1070        Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an or-
ganizational framework for regional investment, planning and development and
to improve working and living conditions in the secondary cities of the less
developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the Project are; (i) h2using
sites and services in the ,^ities of Yeosu, Mogpo and Gwangju (370,384 m 2;
(ii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial processing zone (215,385 m )
in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon City (33,160 m2); and (iv) access
roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It also provides technical assistance
to strengthen regional planning and development, to improve the utilization
of existing water supply systems in the four cities, to assist the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery complex and to carry out feasibility
studies of project proposals identified under the UNDP-financed Phase II
Regional Study. The Loan was declared effective on August 18, 1975.
Loan No. 1094       Program Loan; US$100.0 million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Closing Date: May 1, 1976
The principal aim of the Loan is to help meet the foreign exchange
requirements of the import into the Republic of Korea by the private sector
of essential capital and intermediate goods. Over 80 percent of the Loan
has been disbursed.
Loan No. 1095        Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project provides funds to KDB which will be used to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial sub-projects during the period
mid-1975 to mid-1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1096       Third Education Project; US$22.5 million Loan of
March 31. 1975; Closing Date:   June 30, 1980
The principal aims of the Project are to assist in supplying needed
skills and to establish a framework for evaluating performance and improving
the educational system.  The Project consists of:   (a) construction and equip-
ment of a new technical high school; (b) equipment and extension of buildings
for three agricultural junior colleges; (c) equipment and enlargement of build-
ings for a fisheries college, three fisheries high schools, and equipment for
one merchant marine junior college; (d) construction and equipment of seven
new vocational training institutes; and (e) financing of engineering and tech-
nical services required for the preparation of future education projects.
Loan No. 1101       Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 million Loan of
April 10, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items. The
Loan was declared effective July 15, 1975.
Loan No. 1145       Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 million Loan of July 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct
Imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. The Loan was
declared effective on September 5, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
KOREA
SECOND INTEGRATED DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Korea
Amount:             $15.0 million
Terms:              25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest
at 8-1/2 percent.
Relending Terms:
Repayment                Interest
Grace Period    Period    Total Term    Rate (%)
(a) For .Farm
Development
from Government
to KDBC                        6            9           15          8.5
from KDBC to farmers           3            6            9         12.0
(b) For Dairy Proc-
essing Facilities
from Government
to KDBC                        6            9           15          8.5
The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk on funds on-lent by KDBC
for farm development and technical services (approximately $9.0 million).
KDBC will assume the foreign exchange risk on the portion of the proposed
Bank loan (approximately $6.0 million) which will help finance the expansion
of milk processing facilities.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) the establishment of about 450 new dairy farms each
of which would initially have 8 heifers (estimated
cost: $11.2 million, including contingencies).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(b) the continuation of the development begun as part
of the (First) Integrated Dairy Beef Project on
about 400 dairy farms by increasing the numbers
of heifers on each to ensure their long-term finan-
cial viability (estimated cost $2.7 million, includ-
ing contingencies);
(c) (i) the expansion of existing processing plants
which produce baby milk-powder, sterilized fluid
milk, and wholemilk powders; (ii) the diversifi-
cation of present plants to include production
of butterfat, evaporated milk, and powdered
coffee creamer; (iii) the establishment of two
milk collection centers; (iv) the provision of
approximately 50 small milk cooling units; and
(v) the construction of a frozen milk products
plant at Yeongnam (estimated cost: $8.8 mil-
lion, including contingencies); and
(d) the expansion of technical services for both farm
development and milk processing (estimated cost:
$1.8 million, including contingencies).
Estimated Cost:
Category              Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---Won (million)----     ---(US$ million)----
Dairy Farm Development    2,121   2,560   4,681   4.42      5.33    9.75
Dairy Processing
Facilities                975   2,128   3,103   2.03     4.43     6.46
Technical Services           96     528     624    .20      1.10    1.30
Sub-Total            3,192   5,216   8,408   6.65    10.86    17.51
Contingencies             1,352   1,984   3,336   2.81      4.14    6.95
Total Project Cost        4,544   7,200  11,744   9.46     15.00   24.46
Financing Plan:     The total cost of the proposed project ($24.46 million)
will be financed as follows:
$ Million
Farmers                            2.61
MAF/NACF                           3.88
KDBC                               2.97
Bank                              15.00



AN4NEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated
Disbursements:    Calendar Year         Yearly        Cumulative
($ maillion)
1976              7.5               7.5
1977              3.0              10.5
19713             2.9              13.4
1979              1.3              14.7
198(               .2              14.9
198 1              .1              15.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      International competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines would be applied for the purchase of
machinery, equipment and start--up materials for dairy
processing facilities. Vehicles to serve the processing
facilities, and civil works contracts for the construction
of the dlairy processing facilities, would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid. This
arrangement is considered appropriate since the Korean
construction industry is experienced, efficient and
competitive, and several local plants, each with a
foreign affiliate, ensure a competitive and adequate
supply of vehicles. For the purchase of cattle, KDBC
would submit to the Bank for its agreement a list of at
least 3 countries from which suitable disease free live-
stock could be imported. After agreement on the list,
quotations would be sought from suppliers in these
countries. Other goods required for dairy farm devel-
opment, such as farm machinery, milk cans, fencing,
fertilizers, seeds and farm structures, would be
obtained through existing commercial channels; inter-
national competitive bidding would not be appropriate
since individual contracts would be small and numerous
and the size and combination of farm investments would
vary considerably.
Vehicles and motorcycles required for the technical
services component of the Project would be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
Economic Rate
of Return:        15 percent
Appraisal
Report:           No. 824-KO, dated October 13, 1975
October 15, 1975



