CONFORMED COPY
lw
LOAN NUMBER 1193-KO
Loan Agreement
(Second Integrated Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 4, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1193-KO
Loan Agreement
(Second Integrated Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 4, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by KOREA DAIRY BEEF COMPANY
LIMITED (hereinafter called KDBC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such qssistance, the Borrower will make available to KDBC the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C)  The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and KDBC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
KDBC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, the National Agriculture Cooperative Federation (hereinafter
called NACF) and KDBC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include, inter alia, the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, with the previous agreement of
the Bank and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "First Project" means the project described in Schedule 2 to Credit
Agreement 234-KO dated February 11, 1971 signed between the Borrower and
the International Development Association (hereinafter called "the Credit
Agreement");
(d)   "Articles of Incorporation" means the Articles of Incorporation of
KDBC as of February 14, 1969, as amended up to November 19, 1970, and as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)   "Regulations" means the following regulations of KDBC, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Bank:
(i)        Regulations on organization as of November 19, 1970;
(ii)       Regulations Governing Dairy Loans issued by KDBC's Board of
Directors (hereinafter called the Board) as amended by the Board
on April 13, 1971 and on September 16, 1971;
(f)   "Won" and the letter "W" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(g)   "Act" means Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation Act,
of 1968, Law No. 1960, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)   "AFDC" means the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation,
as established by the Act, a corporation wholly owned by the Borrower;
(i)   "First Subscription" means the subscription to the capital increase of
KDBC pursuant to Section 2.08(b)(i) of the Project Agreement;
()    "Subsidiary" means any juristic person which is owned or effectively
controlled by KDBC or by one or more subsidiaries of KDBC or by KDBC and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(k)   "Application for a Dairy Farm Development Loan" means a proposal
for investment in land clearing, fencing, stock yards facilities, machinery, watering


﻿5
facilities, pasture establishment, livestock, pasture, and dairy management
equipment and tools, farm structures, or other related on-farm items or any
combination thereof, and for the provision of working capital and technical services
in connection therewith;
(1)   "Dairy Farm Development Loan" means a 9 year development loan
made by KDBC after an Application for a Dairy Farm Development Loan has
been approved in accordance with the lending and operating policies and procedures
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement as such schedule may be amended
from time to time and with KDBC's Regulations;
(m)   "Participating Fanner" means any individual orjuristic person to whom
a Dairy Farm Development Loan has been granted;
(n)   "Existing Shareholder" means any individual or juristic person holding
shares of KDBC as of the date of this Agreement or who has been accepted by
the Bank pursuant to Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of the Project Agreement;
(o)   "New Shareholder" means any individual or juristic pC.son, other than
an Existing Shareholder, who holds or purports to hold shares of KDBC either
through subscription or through any other way of acquisition of such shares; and
(p)   "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿6
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KDBC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources necessary or appropriate to enable KDBC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the provisions of subsection (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall (i) relend the proceeds of the Loan to KDBC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) cause NACF to enter into the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and thereby make loans to KDBC amounting in the aggregate
to the equivalent of three million one hundred thousand dollars ($3,100,000); (iii)
make budgetary allocations to MAF amounting in the aggregate to the equivalent
of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000) for the purposes and in the manner
determined in Section 3.02 of this Agreement; (iv) in accordance with provisions
of Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement, cause AFDC to subscribe and
fully pay in the corresponding shares of each and every increase of KDBC's capital


﻿7
stock referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, providing AFDC,
whenever required to do so, with such amount of funds as shall be necessary
therefor; and (v) in accordarce with the provisions of Sections 3.03(b)(ii) and
3.04(c) cause NACF or any other appropriate agency of the Borrower, upon KDBC's
request, to enter with KDBC or each, several or all of KDBC's shareholders or
any combination thereof, into such number of loan agreements as shall be necessary
to make loans thereby thereto, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
with the sole and only purpose of, and in such amounts as shall be required for,
meeting any temporary shortfall in any of the capital increases of KDBC provided
for in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
(c)   Without limiting the generaty of the provisions of subsection (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and any other agreement to be entered into pursuant to Section 3.05
of this Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or such other agreement, or any provision
thereof; (ii) cause NACF or any other appropriate agency of the Borrower to
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the loan agreements
referred to in paragraph (b)(v) of this Section, in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall cause NACF and such
other agency of the Borrower not to assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or such loan agreements or any provision thereof; (iii)
take or cause to be taken by its agencies all action which shall be necessary on
their part to enable (iii.i) KDBC, NACF and any other appropriate agency of the
Borrower to perform all of their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the loan agreements referred to in paragraph (b)(v) of this Section, (iii.ii) KDBC
to perform, and cause its shareholders to perform, all of their obligations under
the Project Agreement and (iii.iii) AFDC to perform all of their obligations under
Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement, and Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of
the Project Agreement; and (iv) not take, or permit to be taken, any action which
might interfere with such performance as mentioned in paragraph (iii) herein or,
without prior consultation with the Bank, with KDBC's marketing of the full output
of the plant referred to under Part B(1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In accordance with Section 3.01(b)(iii) of this Agreement and
with the purpose of making grants for pasture establishment to Participating
Farmers, the Borrower shall:
(a)   allocate to MAF an amount equivalent to eight hundred thousand
dollars on the Borrower's 1976 budget;


﻿8
(b)   allocate to MAF in the Borrower's 1977 budget, and into subsequent
budgets thereafter, amounts equivalent to the unused balance of such 1976 budget
allocation, and of such subsequent budget allocations, respectively, until exhaustion
thereof; and
(c)   upon KDBC's request to the Minister of MAF, take through MAF all
necessary steps and actions required to make funds out of the budgetary allocations
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) herein available to the Participating Farmers
not later than two months after the filing before MAF of such KDBC's request.
Section 3.03. Whenever KDBC, pursuant to any of its capital increases
provided for in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, shall have offered its Existing
Shareholders to exercise partially or totally their pre-emptive rights to any particular
subscription, the following provisions shall apply:
(a)   If the Existing Shareholders (other than AFDC) shall have fully
exercised their pre-emptive rights, the Borrower shall cause AFDC to (i) fully and
duly exercise AFDC's pre-emptive rights to such particular subscription and (ii) fOlyu
pay in cash the shares so subscribed.
(b)   If the Existing Shareholders (other than AFDC) fail, partially or totally,
to exercise in due time such Existing Shareholder's (other than AFDC) pre-emptive
rights, the Borrower shall cause (i) AFDC to subscribe and fully pay in cash such
a number of shares as shall be necessary to meet any shortfall in such particular
subscription provided, however, that including the shares so subscribed AFDC's
share of KDBC's capital stock at that particular time shall not exceed 49% of
such capital stock and (ii) NACF or other appropriate agencies of the Borrower,
or both, to immediately make loans to KDBC or KDBC's Shareholders, or both,
hi such amounts as shall be necessary to equate the difference between the total
amount foreseen for such particular increase of capital according to Section 2.08
of the Project Agreement minus the amount to be contributed by AFDC to that
capital increase pursuant to paragraph (i) herein and the amounts contributed to
such capital increase by Existing Shareholders, provided, however, that loans from
NACF shall amount to not less than 60% of the aggregate of such loans.
Section 3.04. Whenever KDBC, pursuant to any of the capital increases
provided for in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, decides to raise, partially
or totally, the capital required therefor, placing KDBC's shares on the open markt
by offering KDBC's shares for subscription to New Shareholders, then the Borrower
shall:
(a)   cause AFDC, in the event New Shareholders subscribe or pay in only
a part of the total amount of shares to be so offered, to subscribe and fully pay


﻿9
in cash such a number of shares as shall be necessary to meet any shortfall in
such capital increases provided, however, that including the shares so subscribed,
AFDC's share of KDBC's capital stock shall not exceed 49% of such capital stock;
(b)   cause AFDC to enter into the necessary agreements with the Existing
Shareholders (other than AFDC) with the purpose of subscribing such a number
of shares as shall be necessary to meet any existing shortfall in such capital increase
after AFDC's subscription referred to in paragraph (a) above; and
(c)   cause NACF or other appropriate agency of the Borrower, if no
agreement is reached under paragraph (b) above, or having been reached shall have
not been honored by the Existing Shareholders, to make loans to KDBC or KDBC's
Shareholders, or both, in the amount necessary to meet any such shortfall in
KDBC's capital increases provided, however, that loans from NACF shall amount
to not less than 60% of the aggregate of such loans.
Section 3.05. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, after prior consultation with the Bank, AFDC
and KDBC, make the necessary arrangements to the satisfaction of the Bank, to
meet shortfalls in any of KDBC's capital increases provided for in Section 2.08
of the Project Agreement which may have been caused by (a) failure of Existing
Shareholders (i) to exercise their pre-emptive rights, or (ii) to pay in shares
subscribed by them in any such capital increases or (b) failure of the New
Shareholders to subscribe or fully pay in KDBC's shares offered by KDBC in the
open market for purposes of any such capital increases.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lie,i shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso


﻿10
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) cause NACF or other appropriate
agency of the Borrower, or as the case may be, to maintain separate records in respect
of (i) each loan to be made to KDBC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
(ii) each loan to be made to KDBC or other parties under the loan agreements
referred to in Section 3.0 1(b)(v) of this Agreement;
(b)   maintain within MAF, and cause the relevant political or administrative
subdivision of the Borrower to maintain, separate records related to each grant
to be made to Participating Farmers in accordance with Section 3.02 of this
Agreement; and
(c)   cause NACF, MAF and such political and administrative subdivisions
or agencies of the Borrower to furnish the Bank with any information concerning
the records referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) herein and with such other
information concerning the Project as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that KDBC
acquires title satisfactory to the Bank to the lands on which the dairy processing
facilities under Part B of the Project are to be established or expanded.


﻿Section 4.04. The Borrower shall (i) maintain the price incentives offered
to farmers supplying milk to KDBC pursuant to the plan therefor which the
Borrower has implemented in accordance with Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement
and (ii) not modify, alter, amend or abrogate such price incentives without prior
consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agriculture Lnd
Fisheries and all related agencies or administrative subdivisions of the latter to
provide for Participating Farmers an adequate level of continuous technical
assistance to ensure a satisfactory level of pasture management and animal
husbandry.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause AFDC to continue to provide
management and technical guidance to KDBC.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of KDBC under the Project Agreement or of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or both.
(b)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of NACF under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or under any of the loan
agreements referred to in Section 3.01(b)(v) of this Agreement.
(c)  A default shall occur in the performance by AFDC in accordance with
Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement, of any of AFDC's obligations
concerning the increases of capital of KDBC provided for in Section 2.08 of the
Project Agreement.
(d)   KDBC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by KDBC or by others whereby
any of the property of KDBC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(e)   The Borrower, AFDC or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KDBC or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿12
(f)   Any amendment, suspension or repeal of the Act or of any provision
thereof which materially and adversely affects the operations or financial condition
of KDBC or AFDC, the performance by KDBC of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the performance by KDBC or NACF of their obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or under the loan agreements referred to in Section
3.01(b)(v) of this Agreement, or the performance by AFDC in accordance with
Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement or any of AFDC's obligations
concerning increases of KDBC's capital as provided for in Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement, shall have been brought into force and effect.
(g)   A change shall have been made in the Articles of Incorporation and
the Regulations without the Bank's consent.
(h)   A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been established or acquired
or taken over by KDBC or by AFDC, if such establishment, acquisition or taking
over would adversely affect the conduct of KDBC's business or its financial position
or the efficiency of its management and personnel.
(i)   An extraordinary situation shall -have arisen which shall make it
improbable that KDBC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and KDBC;
(b)   the event specified in Section 5.01(h) of this Agreement shall occur
and the situation specified therein shall not have been corrected within 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and KDBC;
and
(c)   any event specified in Section 5.01(d), (e), (f) and (g) of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿13
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
KDBC has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower, KDBC and NACF, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   KDBC has been provided with funds amounting to one hundred and
twenty million Won (W120,000,000) either by means of the completion of the
First Subscription and full payment of shares issued in relation thereto or by loans
made under one or more of the loan agreements referred to in Section 3.01(b)(v)
of this Agreement or by any combination thereof; and
(d)   KDBC has acquired title satisfactory to the Bank to the real property
where the Korea-New Zealand Demonstration Farm is presently located, at
Pyongtaek, Republic of Korea.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of KDBC and is legally binding upon KDBC
in accordance with its terms;
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower, KDBC and
NACF, in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   That the First Subscription has been duly authorized and carried out
by all necessary corporate and governmental action and that the First Subscription
is valid and binding in accordance with any applicable law and particularly with
the laws of the Borrower, and that the execution and delivery of the loan agreement
or agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b)(v) of this Agreement, if any, on behalf
of NACF and of the other party or parties thereto, has or have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(d)   That the title acquired by KDBC to the real property mentioned in
Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement duly vests in KDBC full and permanent
ownership rights to such real property, that no lien has been created and that
KDBC has fully paid such real property's value.


﻿14
Section 6.03. The date September 3, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Planning Board
Seoul, Republic of Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s / Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ B. R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿16
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Dairy Farm                      963,000          25% of total
Development                                       expenditures
Loans (excluding
cattle)
(2)   Imported Cattle                5,976,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)   Dairy Processing
Facilities
(a)  Machinery, ve-            4,500,000          100% of foreign
hicles, equip-                              expenditures or
ment and plant                               100% of local ex-
start-up mate-                              penditures ex-
rials                                       factory
(b)   Civil works                963,000          44% of total ex-
penditures
(4)   Technical Services             1,368,000         85% of total ex-
penditures
(5)   Unallocated                    1,230,000
TOTAL         15,000,000


﻿17
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿18
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to continue the development of the dairy
industry in the Republic of Korea, by means of a combination of credit facilities,
development of milk processing facilities and training and technical services. It
consists of the following parts:
A.    (1)  Dairy Farm Development Loans to be extended through KDBC to
about 450 new family-size dairy farms in the Central, Honam and
Yeongnam Regions.
(2)   Dairy Farm Development Loans to be extended through KDBC to
about 400 dairy farms existing under the First Project.
B.   (1)   The construction of a frozen milk products plant at Yeongnam.
(2)   Expansion and diversification of existing dairy processing plants in the
Central and Honam Regions.
(3)   Supply of approximately 50 small milk cooling units.
(4)   Establishment of two milk collection centers in the Central and Honam
Regions.
C.    A program for the expansion of management and technical services to develop
both dairy farm and milk processing facilities.
*          *          *          *          *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1983                                          185,000
September 15, 1983                                      190,000
March 15, 1984                                          200,000
September 15, 1984                                      210,000
March 15, 1985                                          215,000
September 15, 1985                                      225,000
March 15, 1986                                          235,000
September 15, 1986                                      245,000
March 15, 1987                                          255,000
September 15, 1987                                      265,000
March 15, 1988                                          280,000
September 15, 1988                                      290,000
March 15, 1989                                          300,000
September 15, 1989                                      315,000
March 15, 1990                                          330,000
September 15, 1990                                      345,000
March 15, 1991                                          355,000
September 15, 1991                                      370,000
March 15, 1992                                          390,000
September 15, 1992                                      405,000
March 15, 1993                                          420,000
September 15, 1993                                      440,000
March 15, 1994                                          460,000
September 15, 1994                                      480,000
March 15, 1995                                          500,000
September 15, 1995                                      520,000
March 15, 1996                                          540,000
September 15, 1996                                      565,000
March 15, 1997                                          590,000
September 15, 1997                                      615,000
March 15, 1998                                          640,000
September 15, 1998                                      665,000
March 15, 1999                                          695,000
September 15, 1999                                      725,000
March 15, 2000                                          755,000
September 15, 2000                                      785,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿21
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                              1%
before maturity
More than three years but                           2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                            4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          5-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
Ibre than twenty-one years                             8%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three years                        8-1/2%
before maturity
9


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(a)   Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall provide for the Borrower's and NACF's lending to KDBC
upon KDBC's request to reimburse the latter for all expenditures incurred under
Schedule I to this Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth below in
Parts A and B, respectively.
Part A:    (1)   All amounts lent by the Borrower to KDBC shall bear the rate
of interest provided for in Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement
and shall be repayable by KDBC within a fifteen (15) year term
including a period of grace of six (6) years.
(2)   Loans, and interest thereon, made by the Borrower to KDBC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement under all Categories of
Schedule I to this Agreement (except for machinery and
equipment and civil works included in Categories (3)(a) and (b),
respectively) shall be denominated and repayable in Won.
(3) Except for the rate of interest indicated in paragraph (1) herein,
the Borrower shall not impose other charges to KDBC on the
loans to be made to the latter under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(4)   KDBC shall establish and maintain separate accounts in respect
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and of each Dairy Farm
Development Loan and for each Participating Farmer to whom
cattle are distributed.
Part B:    (1)   All loans to be made by NACF shall be denominated and
repayable in Won and the proceeds thereof shall be applied to
Dairy Farm Development Loans subject to paragraph (4) below.
(2)   Loans made by NACF to KDBC shall be secured only when
the c lateral to be attached to KDBC under the relevant Dairy
Farm Development Loan is legally and practically assignable to
NACF, and such assignment shall be made as soon as the security
interest is created for the benefit of KDBC.
(3)   All amounts lent by NACF to KDBC shall bear a rate of interest
of nine per cent (9%) per annum and shall be repayable by KDBC


﻿23
within a nine (9) year term including a period of grace of four
(4) years.
(4)   KDBC shall relend the funds so received to Participating Farmers
to finance the latter's local costs of working capital, pasture
establishment and farm building, water supply and plant and
all local contingencies for dairy farm development.
(5)   KDBC shall establish and maintain separate accounts in respect
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and of each Dairy Farm
Development Loan made out of the proceeds of loans made by
NACF to KDBC.
(b)   Notwithstanding the aforesaid, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
include such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, inter
alia, those required to reflect the Lending Policies and Procedures of KDBC, as
stated in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, and of NACF.


