Documient of
The World Bank
FOR OFVICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12621
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2510-11U)
D)ECEMBER 23, 1993
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipieots only in tbe performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Forint (Ft)
Appraisal Year Average                        1 US$ = Ft 50.0
Intervening Years Average                     1 USS = Ft 55.0
Completion Year Average                       1 USS = Ft 74.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AGROBER   Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK   Agricultural Equipment Importing Agency
AKI          Research Institute of Agricultural Economics
ATEV         National Rendering Authority
BB           Budapest Bank
CMEA         Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EDI          Economic Development Institute of the World Bank
EEC          European Economic Community
FAO/CP       Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GSM          Grain Storage and Agricultural Mechanization Project
HCB          Hungarian Credit Bank
IAE          Institute of Agricultural Engineering
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
KOMPLEX   Agroindustrial Equipment Foreign Trading Company
MEM          Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NBH          National Bank of Hungary
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
OKHB               National Commercial and Credit Bank
PCR          Project Completion Report
TERIMPEX  Meat Export Agency
USDA         United States Department of Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
)fFic of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Hungary
Integrated Livestock Industry Project (Loan 2510-HU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report - Hungary - Integrated
Livestock Industry Project (Loan 2510-HU)" prepared by the Agriculture and Water Supply
Operations Division, Country Department II, Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
The project is considered satisfactory, because the investment loans were effective in
increasing the productivity and export sales of the livestock farms and agro-industries borrowing from
the credit lines. There was a good working relationship between the Bank, the executing agencies
and Govemment throughout the operation, including EDI participation during preparation. The
project was implemented during a period of substantial change in the institutional setting -- of the
banking system and ownership of the enterprises. Nevertheless the partners were flexible in the use
of project funds, and the original objectives were met.
The project was principally targeted to increase the Hungarian meat sector's ability to export
to convertible currency markets. The success of this objective has allowed the sector to weather the
loss of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance markeL Institutional improvements were equally
satisfactory, and the gains are considered sustainable.
The Bank has followed this operation with other loans to Hungary's agricultural and agro-
industrial sectors. Subloan appraisals continue to improve, and the procurement problems which
impeded this project have been largely overcome.
The project will not be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wlthout World Bank authorization.






FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2510-HU)
CONTEN15
Page
PREFACE             .......................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                        ................................................. iii
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANI'S PERSPECIIVE ..................                                               1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY ................................................ 1
B. BACKGROUND .................................................... 1
C. PROJECT OBJECIIVES AND  DESCRIPTION  ............................ 2
D. PROJECT DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION  .............................. 3
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........................................ 4
Institutional Aspects of Project Implementation ........................... 4
Physical Aspects of Project Implementation .............................. 5
F. PROJECT RESULTS ................................................ 8
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY   ......................................... 9
H. BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................ 10
I.  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ....................................... 10
J.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION  AND  DATA   ............................ 10
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... ....... 11
PART IL  STATISnCAL INFORMATION   ..................................... 13
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans ................                     ............................... 13
Table 2: Project Timetable .             ................................................. 14
Table 3:  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input .        ................................................. 14
B. Missions .................................................... 15
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements   .............                     ................................. 16
Table 5:  Project Implementation - Key Indicators  ............................... 17
Table 6:  Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs in USS  .......................................... 18
B. Project Costs in Forints ........................................ 18
C. Project Financing ............                 ................................. 19
Table 7:  Project Results
A. Direct Benefits . ............................................... 20
B. Project Impact .          ............................................... 21
C. Project Impact on Meat Exports .................................. 22
Table 8:  Status of Covenants  .             .............................................. 23
MAP IBRD 18681
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECr
(Loan 2510-HU)
PREFACE
The Integrated Livestock Industry Project, for which Loan 2510-HU in the amount of
US$80 million equivalent was approved on April 2, 1985, was closed one year behind schedule on
December 31, 1991 with a final disbursement on December 17, 1992. This was the second Bank loan
for agriculture to Hungary.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
(EC2AW) of the Central Europe Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part IE),
and the Borrower (Part II). It is based on information gathered during PCR missions in March and
October 1992 and from the following documentation: the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5343-HU)
dated February 12, 1985, the President's Report (No. P-3973-HU) dated February 27, 1985, the Loan
Agreement of April 29, 1985, correspondence with the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda
contained in Bank files.






- i.. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2510-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.       The main objective of the project was to maintain and increase foreign exchange earnings
in convertible currency through the expansion of exports of raw and processed animal products. To
achieve this, the project was designed to:
(a) increase factor productivity through the development of more efficient farming units,
the purchase of modern machinery and equipment, and the introduction of improved
technologies on the farms and in agroindustries which process meat, milk, and animal
byproducts;
(b) reduce unit production costs through labor-saving technologies and more efficient
equipment and manufacturing processes;
(c) upgrade the quality of meat by improving the hygienic conditions of meat processing
plants in line with USDA and EEC standards, rehabilitate outmoded facilities, expand
their cold storage facilities, and improve their packaging and handling equipment, and;
(d) improve livestock yields in the country through better pasture and fodder resource
utilization and more efficient conversion of feed into animal products.
Implementation Experience
2.       The on-farm livestock component was implemented successfully, at a slightly lower level
than envisaged - 100 subloans were made to cooperatives, state farms, and private farmers for pig,
cattle, dairy, sheep, and poultry development. Investor interest waned in the animal feed and input
supply component with the general contraction of the livestock subsector; 20 investments in feedmills
eventually materialized. The decreased interest in input supply subprojects can be explained in part
by the declining production levels in the sector during the project period and also by the breakup of
the Meat Trust in 1987, which decentralized operations to an extent that large input supply
investments were not appropriate to the new production environment. The slauehterhouse
modernization component was implemented much as envisaged in 13 plants, and the dairy production
component constructed six UHT milk plants that are producing above appraisal expectations. An
export marketing services component carried out detailed analyses of new markets and marketing



- lv -
services to enhance market entry and expansion of market share. Following severe drought
conditions in 1987-88, the Government of Hungary made a request in the fall of 1990 to allow
financing of the emergency importation of animal feed under the four existing Bank agricultural credit
lines to safeguard the national livestock wealth. Financing of the importation of US$5.5 million of
animal feed (soybean meal pellets) from cost savings in other components took place in 1991 (para
15). In addition, 33 on-farm investments for seed production were made, also due to cost savings in
other components.
3.       Under the institution building component, substantial training of Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry (MEM) staff took place under the project. Various overseas study tours and
postgraduate training took place as well as training related to the following investments: (a)
Agricultural Biotechnology Center at GWdll6. This state-of-the art center became operational during
the second half of 1990. The center had a total investment cost of US$20 million, of which US$4.5
million (equipment) was financed by the Bank under both this and the Crop Production Improvement
Project; (b) Pannon University for Agricultural Sciences. Kaposv4r. The purchase of a computerized
tomograph--a Bank-financed investment of US$1.9 million--has allowed the analysis of live animal
specimens for genetic improvement and grading and qualification of pigs for breeding; (c) Szarvas
Irrigation Research Institute. Equipment purchase and training funds totalling $500,000 for research
activities aimed at the improvement of grassland; and (d) Research Farms at G&16116 and
Herceghalom. The activities of these centers in animal nutrition were strengthened through the
purchase of equipment and the provision of training funds.
4.       The project's credit component was efficiently managed by NBH and the commercial
banks. On-lending criteria were applied, and subproject appraisal was carried out effectively with the
technical input from MEM and AGROBER. AGROBER built up its analytical capacity under this
and other Bank agriculture projects, and continues to operate effectively. The evaluation work
carried out by the commercial banks made a valuable contribution to this report. MEM's Economic
Department produced studies and reports on the agricultural policy framework which facilitated the
continuing positive dialogue between government and the Bank. Procurement under the project was
time consuming--an inordinate amount of time was spent and many difficulties arose coming to
agreement on procurement issues with the Hungarian foreign trading companies (para. 14).
Project Results
5.       Onfarm Production. Investments in pig production, notably in automated liquid feeding
systems, yielded higher returns than expected at appraisal, averaging a 40% rate of return. One
notable example, the Papa State Farm, installed an automated feeding system which cut their
operating costs in half and yielded a rate of return of 98%. Dairy and sheep production investments
yielded an average of 15% and 13% respectively, much in line with appraisal estimates.
6.       Input SuppVl. Based on data from several enterprises, investments in dry feed mills (feed
mixing plants! yielded a 17% rate of return, in line with appraisal estimates. Overall levels of
production were substantially lower due to the decreased number of investments. The concentrate
feed mill at Kornye yielded a 15% rate of return, again in line with appraisal estimates. A rate of
return could not be calculated for the blood and feathermeal processing plant (ATEV), but rate of
return is expected to be negative due to low capacity utilization. Tnis is due to lower overall meat
production levels in the country and thus lower by-product production. In addition, since the breakup
of the Meat Trust in 1988, a much more decentralized production system in the meat industry has



developed; enterprises have developed their own processing capacities for the utilization of waste
products, and large centralized processing plants are not compatible with this new reality. The
enzymes and antibiotics plant (Phylaxia) was completed, but has never commenced production due
to the financial situation of the enterprise and to lack of demand for its product. The enterprise is
currently under bankruptcy proceedings. Seed production, an added feature to the project, included
investments in seed production, processing and storage and yielded high rates of return, averaging
40%.
7.        Dairy Production. Six enterprises invested in machinery for the production of UHT Milk.
Despite worsening conditions and a severe reduction in milk production countrywide during the life
of the project, these investments have performed above expectations, averaging a total of 90 million
liters per year production and a 40% rate of return.
8.        Meat Production. Due to the loss of the former CMEA inarket (one third of former
production) and domestic economic recession, meat production took a serious fall during the project
period. Other factors, such as the worsening internal terms of trade for agriculture, drop in subsidies,
and the reorganization of the meat industry after the dissolution of the Meat Trust central
management system in 1988, contributed to this overall decline. As a result, many of the enterprises
which invested in meat processing under the project are facing serious financial difficulties. Most are
in the process of privatization, and most will survive in some form, in part because the investments
under the project allow them to produce processed meat products of the quality and under the
hygienic conditions required for export to the West. Total exports of processed meat increased in
constant dollar terms over the life of the project. In volume terms, exports of salted meat (including
bacon and ham) increased from a negligible 61 tons to 2,300 tons, sausage exports increased 47%,
and canned meat exports declined 8%. During the same period, the percentage of meat exports (in
constant dollars) destined for convertible currency markets of total meat exports increased from 42%
to 79% (Table 7B, page 2). This was a direct result of the modernization and upgrading of meat
processing facilities carried out under the project. A calculation of the incremental rate of return on
individual project investments in the enterprises was not possible due to the lack of disaggregated
production, revenue and export data at the enterprise level, however the evidence indicates that
project investments have generated substantial benefits to the meat industry in Hungary.
9.        Overall Project Rate of Return. Calculating a weighted average of the returns on the
productive components of the project is not possible due to the lack of hard data on the meat
industry investments. However, if one assumes that the meat industry investments will eventually
produce at roughly appraisal estimates, the project would yield a recalculated project rate of return
of about 25% as compared to the appraisal estimate of 24%.
Project Sustainability
10.      The project clearly fulfilled its main objectives, namely increasing foreign exchange
earnings in convertible currency through the expansion of exports of processed animal products. It
achieved this through (1) upgrading the quality of processed meat production by improving hygienic
conditions in line with EEC and USDA standards and by installing modern production, packaging,
and handling equipment, and (2) increasing the efficiency of input supply (feed mixing plants) and
onfarm production (pig and dairy farming). Table 7C (page 23) is evidence of the ability of Hungary
to shift its focus to Western markets. These two improvements are major contributors to the
sustainable development of the Hungarian meat industry, which will allow it to meet the major



- vi -
challenge of reorganization and downsizing to adjust to new market realities.  Other mitigating
factors decreased the overall impact of the project: (a) a drop in total agricultural production during
the life of the project as a result of the collapse of the ex-CMEA market; and (b) a severe drought
in 1987-88 whose effects were felt for several years. In addition, the removal of distortions (subsidies)
in the agricultural sector led to necessary adjustment and lower project investment, and the current
ownership transformation process is causing major short-term disruptions in the sector. Despite these
factors, exports to the convertible currency areas have been buoyant, offsetting losses to the CMEA
market, and the overall conditions for competitive production in the livestock subsector in Hungary
continue to exist.
Fmdings and Lessons Learned
11.      The main findings, and lessons learned, from the experience under the project are:
(a) The evolution of the project as described in the project files demonstrates the ability
on the part of the Hungarian authorities and the Bank staff members involved to
adjust and redesign the project to the changing context of the Hungarian livestock
subsector.
(b) Procurement under the project was problematical. An inordinate amount of time was
spent and many difficulties arose coming to agreement on procurement issues with the
Hungarian foreign trading companies who were near monopoly operators during the
project period. Project procurement rules and regulations lagged behind the changing
Hungarian context. Procurement arrangements under the Hungarian agricultural
credit projects, which followed this project do reflect the liberalization of the
Hungarian economy, with an increasing level of flexibility (para. 14).
(c) The institutional arrangements for the implementation of the projects were well
designed and efficiently carried out. The project's credit component was efficiently
managed by NBH and the commercial banks. On-lending criteria were applied, and
subproject appraisal was carried out effectively with the technical input from MEM
and AGROBER. AGROBER built up its analytical capacity under this and other
Bank agriculture projects and continues to operate effectively, providing technical
input to investors, commercial banks, MEM, and the World Bank. MEM's Economic
Department produced studies and reports on the agricultural policy framework which
facilitated the continuing positive dialogue between the Borrower and the Bank.



PROJECT COMPLEILON REPORT
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROlECT
(Loan 2510-HU)
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTlTY
Name          Integrated Livestock Industry Project
Loan Number  2510-HU
RVP Unit    : ECA
Country      : Hungary
Sector       : Agriculture
Subsector    : Agricultural Credit
B BACKGROUND
1.       Hungary joined the Bank on July 7, 1982. At that time, the Hungarian Government asked
the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment in the productive sectors through project-
based lending aimed at export generation, import substitution, and increased efficiency. This loan
brought total Bank commitments by 1986 to approximately USS1 billion for sixteen loans (including
B" loans).
2.       Agriculture is of major importance to the Hungarian economy. It has largely fulfilled the
country's need for food and has generated significant surpluses for export. The sector had performed
well over the previous 15 years prior to appraisal, showing an annual growth rate of 2.9% in real
terms, and an average rate of 3.5% over the previous five years. At the time of project approval,
agriculture was one of the first sectors initiating the process of moving away from a centrally-planned
to a more market-based production/investment system. There remained, however, a significant degree
of State subsidy, tax incentives, and regulations on investment and use of profits.
3.       The project was the second financed by the Bank in the agricultural sector. The Grain
Storage and Agricultural Mechanization (GSM) Project (Ln. 2316-HU), approved in FY83 (including
two 'B' loans), was designed to increase grain production and decrease harvest losses through
increased storage capacity and increased investment in on-farm mechanization. The project met or
exceeded appraisal estimates and was rated as fully satisfactory by OED reviewers. MEM was
extremely satisfied with the GSM project, particularly as regards the introduction of Bank appraisal
methodology, lower procurement costs achieved through ICB, and the Bank role in securing
cofinancing. Since 1986 there have been three additional projects in the sector: the Crop Production
Improvement Project (Ln. 2738-HU) approved in FY86, designed to increase exports through the
improvement of field crop production; the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (La 2936-HU)
approved in FY88, designed to increase exports of Hungarian agroprocessing products to convertible
currency areas; and the Integrated Agricultural Export Project (Ln. 3229-HU) approved in FY90,
designed to provide additional financial resources to private, small scale farmers, and larger
agricultural units (see Table 1).



- 2 -
C PROJECT OBJECIIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objeciv
4.       The main objective of the project was to maintain and increase foreign exchange earnings
in convertible currency through the expansion of exports of raw and processed animal products. To
achieve this, the project was designed to:
(a) increase factor productivity through the development of more efficient farming units,
the purchase of modern machinery and equipment, and the introduction of improved
technologies on the farms and in agroindustries which process meat, milk and animal
byproducts;
(b) reduce unit production costs through labor-saving tec ..lologies and more efficient
equipment and manufacturing processes;
(c) upgrade the quality of meat by improving the hygienic conditions of meat processing
plants in line with USDA and EEC standards, rehabilitate outmoded facilities, expand
their cold storage facilities, and improve their packaging and handling equipment, and;
(d) improve livestock yields in the country through better pasture and fodder resource
utilization and more efficient conversion of feed into animal products.
Project Description
5.       The project was designed to be undertaken over a four-year period and consisted of five
investment components implemented by providing credit to meat processing enterprises, state farms,
and cooperatives:
(a) Animal Feed and Livestock Input Supply
Construction of a pre-mix feed concentrate plant, modernization of 30 feedmills
and 27 liquid feed mixing plants, construction of blood and feather processing
unit, an animal enzyme and antibiotic plant, a meat pulp feed unit, and a plant for
manufacturing replacement liners for milking machines.
(b) Onfarm Production
Reconstruction and expansion of 32 pig farms, expansion of 56 farms for feeder
cattle and beef fattening, 21 sheep farms, and modernization of 12 dairy farms.
(c) AMroindustrial Processing
Modernization of seven slaughterhouses, equipment replacement of other
slaughterhouses, and modernization of nine dairies.
(d) Research. Training and Engineering Design
Research in pig, dairy, and sheep production and grassland improvement, study
programs for research workers, and training activities for farm and slaughterhouse
managers and technicians, and engineering consultancies to assist in agroindustrial
design.



-3 -
(e) Export Marketing Services
A study of an improved market strategy in world markets for project commodities
including specific recommendations for penetrating new markets and marketing
services to enhance market entry and expansion of market share through sales
promotion.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Project Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal
6.       The project was identified in July 1983 as primarily a livestock development program
which would support a portion of the MEM's 1986-1990 Development Plan. A project brief was
finalized in September 1983. At that time, the issue was raised of the ability to break into the
convertible currency markets, pointing out the fact that a very large share of the trade in the sector
was directed towards the CMEA market. Internal Bank reviewers also questioned the economic
viability of investments in the dairy industry given the surplus of milk products on the world market
and their low price. Another concern stemmed from the fact that milk and meat producers were
receiving large government subsidies. The issues paper stated that the dairy component would involve
rehabilitation and expansion of existing dairy farms for the production of UHT milk and cheese which
increased their efficiency and marketability. The marketing and subsidy issues were dealt with by
including a pre-project marketing study and a continuation of the dialogue and progress on reduction
of subsidies in the sector started under the previous GSM project, along with assurances on further
subsidy reductions.
7.       Responsibility for project preparation was given to MEM. Extensive training through EDI
was carried out in early 1984 in financial and economic analysis of projects, procurement seminars
were held, and these institution-building activities were received with much interest by the Hungarian
authorities. Project preparation took place over a six-month period with assistance from EDI staff.
8.       During project processing the inclusion of a plant to produce lysine--an amino acid
beneficial for supplying additional protein to animal feed--was considered. However, the IFC
indicated interest in a joint venture with a Japanese firm and it was decided that the component
would be reconsidered if IFC participation did not materialize. This component was not included in
the final design of the project, and project design remained much as it was prepared.
9.       Negotiations were held in January 1985 and the following policy agreements were reached:
(a) A study would be completed by December 1986 which would determine the causes
of inefficiencies in the subsector and make recommendations on a set of policies
required to increase efficiency on a farm and enterprise level and on a package of
technology that would be incorporated in the existing system of producing and
processing livestock and products;
(b) Information would be provided each calendar year on changes in agricultural and food
industry policy that pertained to export policy measures on meat and dairy products;
(c) Agreement that there would be no net increase in current terms in the present total
amount of subsidies going to the dairy subsector and that Government would not



- 4 -
exceed the total amount of current forints spent on subsidies beyond the 1984 level
to producers and consumers, and, over time would reduce the subsidies to dairy
farmers and consumers.
The loan was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on April 2, 1985, was signed on April 29,
1985, and became effective on June 6, 1985. The Hungarians were aiming during this period at a
large "B" loan cofinancing package' in the order of $420 million to substitute for domestic funds, and
it was decided that part of this "B" loan would be used to cofinance this project. This cofinancing
arrangement was finalized in June of 1985.
E. PROJECI IMPLEMENTATION
I=ituional Aspects of Project Implementation
10.      The major State institution in the agricultural sector at the time of project implementation
was MEM. It initiated virtually all of the sectoral planning, policy formulation, research, and other
support activities. The other State organs directly regulating agriculture were the National Planning
Office, which was responsible for development plans, and the National Board for Materials and
Prices, which made recommendations for administrative prices for all agricultural products and inputs.
AGROBER, an autonomous national engineering and consulting firm that fell under the supervision
of MEM, was hired to provide technical support for the evaluation of subloan applications, supervise
the construction and instaDlation of machinery, prepare reports on project progress, and maintain a
project monitoring system. KOMPLEX and AGROT1EK, the foreign trading organizations for
agricultural and agroindustrial frms respectively, were responsible for international tendering.
TERIMPEX, the foreign trade organization which deals with food and animal feed and the Meat
Trust, an organization which represented the interests of the state owned slaughterhouses, were
responsible for executing the marketing services component of the project. The Research Institute
of Agricultural Economics (AKI) was charged with carrying out a study to determine the causes of
inefficiencies in the livestock and relevant agroindustry subsectors.
11.      The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) combined the functions of a central bank with that
of a commercial and development bank, and was the major source of agricultural credit at the time
of project startup. AD financial transactions in the agricultural sector were conducted through NBH.
NBH had primary responsibility for project implementation: it was the borrower for the loan, and on-
lent loan and counterpart funds to enterprises or MEM (for institutional development). NBH staff
were well-trained in the financial and economic appraisal of investment projects and their
performance under other Bank loans was satisfactory. AGROBER supported the subloan application
process by preparing detailed feasibility studies and appraisal reports in conjunction with NBH credit
departments.
12.      On January 1, 1987 a two-tier banldng system was introduced in Hungary. This move
separated the central bankdng functions of NBH from its commercial banking functions. NBH's credit
departments were organized along sectoral lines and operated nationwide through 19 regional offices
and 71 branch offices. Three banks, Budapest Bank (BB), Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB), and
1/        A 'B" lan was a mechanism whereby the Bank and a consortium of commercial banb and financial insitutions made
a lan to GCovernmnts in conjunction with one or more projects



- 5 -
National Commercial and Credit Bank (OKHB) were formed out of the general credit sections of
NBH. In order to encourage competition it was proposed that the new banks would engage in
lending operations in all sectors and not merely confine themselves to the sectors in which they have
been exclusively involved to date. The new banks inherited their present respective clients, but
enterprises could choose their own banks as of July 1987. The banks were free to set their own
deposit and lending rates within guidelines set by NBH. Until they were allowed in 1989 to
participate in retail banking activities and mobilize household deposits, the commercial banks only
dealt with state enterprises, local councils, large cooperatives and other entities in the socialist sector.
They are now also servicing the small business and farm sectors.
13.      The legal documents for this and seven other existing loans were amended on January 1,
1987 and subsidiary financing agreements were subsequently signed. The amounts already disbursed
from the bank loan (US$5 million) were assigned and undisbursed amounts were made available to
be on-lent by the participating commercial banks. Subloan appraisals frum that point on were carried
out by the three participating commercial banks in conjunction with AGROBER.
Physical Aspects of Project Implementation
14.      Procurement2 under the project was problematical. An inordinate amount of time was
spent and many difficulties and delays arose coming to agreement on procurement issues with the
Hungarian foreign trading companies. Given the lack of market mechanisms and the near monopoly
position of the foreign trading companies, the ICB threshold for the project was set fairly low (it
fluctuated between US$150,000 and US$300,000 during the life of the project). Although the Bank's
prior review threshold was higher (US$3 million, lowered to US$1 million in 1990), almost all ICB
procurement actions, including those under the threshold, were submitted to the Bank for review.
In addition, efforts to join investors under procurement packages (for example in the procurement
of meat processing equipment) also resulted in delays. These factors--combined with problems
agreeing with the foreign trading companies on commercial and technical aspects of the bidding
process--are reflected in the fairly high supervision coefficient for the project, which averaged 22.5
SW per year. The Bank and the Borrower started an effort in the fall of 1986 to prepare four
standardized bidding documents for use in all Bank-related procurement actions. These documents
have proved to be a very worthwhile effort and are now saving much time in the procurement cycle.
They were not, however, ready to be used for most of the procurement actions under this project and
lengthy disagreements over standard commercial clauses delayed procurement actions considerably.
After 1990 the project was disbursing in direct competition with the IAED Project, which requires
no procurement packaging and allows shopping for most purchases. The commercial banks also had
an extra incentive to disburse rapidly under the IAED Project as the commitment charges are
absorbed by them rather than by NBH as in the case of this project.
15.      Implementation experience in respect to the main project components is summarized
below (see Table 5 for summary):
(a) Animal Feed and Livestock Input Supply . This component was implemented at a
lower level than envisaged--only 18 feed mixing plants (dry feedmills) were
constructed or modernized compared to an expected 30. The Concentrate feed mill
(premix mill) at Komye was constructed as planned. A blood and feathermeal
2y       See Borroweres comments on procurement aspects of the project (Part II, Paras. 5 and 6).



processing plant was constructed as well as an enzymes and antibiotics plant. AU
investments suffered from implementation delays. Investments in 27 high moisture
feed mills and a meatpulp feedmill did not materialize. An investment in a milking
liners plant in Timar was planned but never materialized. The decreased interest in
input supply subprojects can be explained in part by the declining production levels
in the sector during the project period and also by the breakup of the Meat Trust in
1988 and the Dairy Trust in 1990, which decentralized operations to an extent that
large input supply investments were not appropriate to the new production
environment.
(b) Onfarm Production. A total of 100 onfarm production subloans were implemented,
compared to 121 envisaged at appraisal. There was a sharp decline in beef and sheep
farm investments (23 as compared to 77 expected), an increase in dairy farm
investments (47 as compared to 12 expected), and an addition of six poultry
investments. Again, these results reflect the decrease in meat production levels in
Hungary during the project period.
(c) Agroindustrial Processing-. Seven slaughterhouses carried out major modernization
investments, and another six replaced key meat processing equipment, as estimated
at appraisal. One of the major investors, Debrecen, dropped out and was replaced by
Gyongos. Six dairies installed UHT milk plants (as compared to an expected five).
An expected four milk ultra filtering plant investments never materialized.
(d) Institution Building. Substantial training of MEM staff took place under the project,
although the program was a little late in starting. Various overseas study tours and
postgraduate training took place as well as other training related to the following
investments:
(i) Agricultural Biotechnology Center at G6dQl1. This state-of-the-art center
became operational during the second half of 1990. The center, supervised
and funded by MEM, is comprised of four research institutes--Animal
Sciences, Biochemistry and Protein Research, Molecular Genetics, and Plant
Sciences. The center had a total investment cost of about US$20 million, of
which about US$4.5 million (equipment) was financed by the Bank under
both this and the Crop Production Improvement Project. Its unique energy
saving design has its greenhouses and animal labs situated on the rooftop. It
is one of the only facilities in Europe which concentrates all of its high
technology biological research in one center. The central budget allocations
for the center have been cut drastically in the last year, but the center's
dynamic general director is concentrating on a more market-oriented approach
to research, and is actively seeking grant funding and shared research with
foreign partners. The facility is also allowing for more Hungarian scientists
to return from overseas to continue their research and may prevent the brain
drain phenomenon in this field. The investment has been completed
successfully and the center is carrying out the activities envisaged in the
project design.



- 7 -
(ii) Pannon University for Agricultural Sciences, Kaposvar. The purchase of a
computerized tomograph, a Bank-financed investment of US$1.9 million, has
allowed the analysis of live animal specimens for genetic improvement and
grading and qualification of pigs for breeding.
(iii) Szarvas Irrigation Research Institute. Equipment purchase and training
funds totalling $500,000 for research activities aimed at the improvement
of grassland management, grass farming, and research aimed at private
farmers were carried out under the project.
(iv)   Research Farms at God6116 and Herceghalom. The activities of these
centers in animal nutrition research were strengthened through the
purchase of equipment to establish model feeding units and the provision
of training funds.
(e) Export Marketing Services. Meat marketing programs were successfully carried out
in Greece, Sweden, and the USA by Terimpex.
(f) Seed Production. Following a borrower request, investments in the modernization of
seed production, including production, drying, cleaning, and storage were allowed due
to cost savings in other components. A total of 33 investments in this area were made
under the project.
(g) Importation of Animal Feed. Following severe drought conditions in 1987-88, the
Government of Hungary made a request in the fall of 1990 to allow financing of the
emergency importation of up to US$60 million equivalent of animal feed under the
four existing World Bank agricultural credit lines to safeguard the national livestock
wealth. Coarse grain stocks had fallen dangerously low from 1989 to 1990. A
decision was made to allow for the financing of the importation of US$5.5 million of
animal feed (soybean meal pellets) from cost savings which took place in 1991.
16.      Total Project Costs. Project costs totalled US$264.5 million (Forints 15.8 billion) as
compared to US$325.2 million (Forints 16.3 billion) estimated at appraisal (Tables 6A and 6B).
Lower project costs are primarily due to the reduced scope of the on-farm development and feedmills
components.
17.      Polica Conditionalities. An agreement was reached at negotiations in which Government
agreed not to increase subsidies above current levels in the dairy sector, and confirmed their intention
to reduce subsidies to milk producers and consumers. This has been carried out: overall subsidy
reduction in the agricultural sector exceeded planned targets during the project period. Producer
subsidies disappeared for dairy producers in 1989, and consumer subsidies in 1991. The major
remaining subsidy mechanism for producers in the sector is the tax rebate for exports and, to a lesser
extent interest rate subsidies on investment projects. The government also provided the Bank with
annual agricultural policy reviews on changes in agricultural and agroindustrial policy. These reports
were received from the Economic Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and were of high
quality. Annual reporting requirements from NBH and the commercial banks were also met.



- 8 -
18.       Onlendin . 209 subloans were made under the project, initially by NBH directly, and after
the introduction of the two-tier banking system, through three commercial banks (paras. 11-13).
Conditions for subloans such as beneficiary contribution levels, interest rates, subloan maturities and
financial ratios were met (Table 8). In fact, on average beneficiary contributions to subloans totalled
30%, World Bank contribution averaged 28%, with 42% coming from commercial bank loans. NBH
assumed the foreign exchange risk, onlending the proceeds of World Bank loans to the commercial
banks in local currency. Interest rates paid by beneficiaries was at least the covenant specification
of the Bank's variable interest rate plus 30% of that amount. Beyond this requirement, the
commercial bank's were free to set their own lending rates. Interest rates to beneficiaries increased
from about 13% in the beginning of the project period to about 24% towards the end, reflecting the
increase in domestic lending rates.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
19.       Based on data supplied by selected enterprises, commercial banks, and AGROBER, the
following specific results can be shown. Due to the relatively low distortions in the pricing, foreign
exchange, and trading regimes in Hungary during subproject implementation and at the present time,
it has been assumed that the recalculated financial and economic rates of return are equivalent.
Rates of return were calculated using data converted in constant 1991 forint. The results are
summarized in Tables 7A and 7B.
20.       Animal Feed and Livestock Input Supply . Based on data from several enterprises,
investments in dry feed mills (feed mixing plants) yielded a 17% rate of return, in line with appraisal
estimates. Overall levels of production were substantially lower due to the decreased number of
investments. The concentrate feed mill at Kornyc yielded a 15% rate of return, again in line with
appraisal estimates.  A rate of return could not be calculated for the blood and feathermeal
processing plant (ATEV), but rate of return is expected to be negative due to low capacity utilization.
This is due to lower overall meat production levels in the country (and thus lower by-product
production). In addition, since the breakup of the Meat Trust in 1988, a much more decentralized
production system in the meat industry has developed, enterprises have developed their own
processing capacities for the utilization of waste products, and large centralized processing plants are
not compatible with this new reality. The enzymes and antibiotics plant (Phylaxia) was completed,
but has never commenced production due to the financial situation of the enterprise and to lack of
demand for its product. The enterprise is currently under bankruptcy proceedings.
21.       Ontarm Production. Investments in pig production, notably in automated liquid feeding
systems, yielded higher returns than expected at appraisal, averaging a 40% rate of return (compared
to 19-27% estimates). Onc notable example, the Papa State Farm, installed an automated feeding
system which cut their operating costs in half and yielded a rate of return of 98%. Dairy and sheep
production investments yielded an average of 15% and 13% respectively, much in line with appraisal
estimates. Data on beef breeding and fattening were not available.
22.       Seed Production. An added feature to the project, investments in seed production,
processing and storage yielded high rates of return, averaging 40%.
23.       Dairy Production. Six enterprises invested in machinery for the production of UHT Milk.
Despite worsening conditions and a severe reduction in milk production countrywide during the life



-9-
of the project, these investments have performcd above expectations, averaging a total of 90 million
liters per year production and a 40% rate of return (compared to 29-37% estimated at appraisal).
24.       Meat Production. Due to the loss of the former CMEA market (one third of former
production) and domestic economic recession, meat production took a serious fall during the project
period. Other factors, such as the worsening internal tcrms of trade for agriculture, drop in subsidies,
and the reorganization of the meat industry after the dissolution of the Trust central management
system in 1988 contributed to this overall decline. As a result, many of the enterprises which invested
in meat processing under the project are facing serious financial difficulties. Most are in the process
of privatization, and most will survive in some form, in part because the investments under the project
allow them to produce processed meat products of the quality and under the hygienic conditions
required for export to the West. As shown in Table 7C (page 23), total exports of processed meat
increased over the life of the project in constant dollars. In volume terms, exports of salted meat
(including bacon and ham) increased from a ncgligiblc 61 tons to 2,300 tons, sausage exports
increased 47%, and caned meat exports declined 8%. During the same period, the prcrentage of
meat exports (in constant dollars) dcstined for convcrtible currcncy markets of total mcat exports
increased from 42% to 79%. This was a direct result of the modernization and upgrading of meat
processing facilities carried out under the project. A calculation of the incremental rate of return on
individual project investmcnts in the enterprises was not possiblc due to the lack of disaggregated
production, revenue and export data at the enterprisc level, however the overall evidence indicates
that project investments have gencrated substantial bcncfits to the meat industry in Hungary.
25.       Overall Proicct Rate of Retuirn. Calculating a wcighted average of the returns on the
productive components of the project is not possible due to the lack of hard data on the meat
industry investments. However, if one assumes that the mcat industry investments will eventually
produce at roughly appraisal estimates, the project would yield a recalculated project rate of return
of about 25% as compared to the appraisal estimate of 24%.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.       The project clearly fulfilled its main objective: increasing foreign exchange earnings in
convertible currency through the expansion of exports of processed animal products. It achieved this
through (1) upgrading the quality of processed meat production by improving hygienic conditions in
line with EEC and USDA standards and by installing modern production, packaging, and handling
equipment, and (2) increasing the efficiency of input supply (feed mixing plants) and onfarm
production (pig and dairy farming). Table 7C (page 23) is evidcnce of the ability of Hungary to shift
its focus to Wcstern markets. These two improvcments are major contributors to the sustainable
development of the Hungarian mcat industry, which will allow it to meet the major challenge of
reorganization and downsizing to adjust to new market realities. Other mitigating factors decreased
the overall impact of the project: (a) a drop in total meat production during the life of the project
as a result of the collapse of the cx-CMEA market; and (b) a sevcre drought in 1987-88 whose effects
were fclt for several years. In addition, the current ownership transformation process is causing major
short-term disruptions in the sector.  In addition, the removal of distortions (subsidies) in the
agricultural scctor led to necessary adjustment and lowcr project investment, and the current
ownership transformation process is causing major short-tcrm disruptions in the sector. Despite these
factors, exports to the convertible currency arcas have bccn buoyant, offsetting losses to the CMEA



- 10-
market, and the overall conditions for competitive production in the livestock subsector in Hungary
continue to exist.
IL BANK PERFORMANCE
27.      The evolution of the project as described in the project files demonstrates the ability on
the part of the Hungarian authorities, the commercial banks, and Bank staff members involved to
adjust and redesign the project to the changing context of the Hungarian livestock subsector.
28.      Regular, adequate supervision of the project was carried out, usually in conjunction with
the Crop Production Improvement Project (Table 3B). Most of the 22.5 SW average supervision
time, however, was spent at headquarters reviewing procurement documentation.
L BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.      The project's credit component was efficiently managed by NBH and the commercial
banks. On-lending criteria were applied, and subproject appraisal was carried out effectively with
technical input from MEM and AGROBER. AGROBER built up its analytical capacity under this
and other Bank agriculture projects and continues to provide technical input to investors, commercial
banks, MEM, and the World Bank. However the evaluation work carried out for this project was
not as thoroughly planned and managed as the work done by the Institute for Agricultural
Engineering under the concurrent Crop Production Improvement Project, making the evaluation of
the impact of the project less straightforward. MEM's Economic Department produced studies and
reports on the agricultural policy framework which facilitated the continuing positive dialogue
between the Borrower and the Bank.
J. PROJECr DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
30.      The Loan Agreement in the case of this loan was quite adequate and appropriate for
achieving project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The project appraisal report
and implementation volume ensured institutional memory as staff responsibilities changed. NBH and
the commercial banks produced adequate and thorough semi-annual reports on project on-lending.
MEM and AGROBER provided valuable data for the evaluation of the project.



- 11 -
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECME
1.       The Project Completion Report (Parts I and III) prepared by the World Bank's experts
includes an in-depth and objective analysis of the entire project. The National Bank of Hungary as
the Borrower and the Ministry of Agriculture agree with the final evaluation of the project and the
operation of the institutions involved in the implementation. As the report gives broad overview of
direct project benefits, we would like to stress certain other aspects which contributed to the Project
becoming a successful operation.
2.       During the appraisal as well as implementation the beneficiaries got acquainted with new
approaches and methods of project preparation and implementation. The participation of external
consultants in the preparation of development plans, the continuous a distance of World Bank staff
in the elaboration of application packages reflecting the real financial status of the Borrower, viable
options for future development and realistic assessment of their marketing perspectives were cases
in point. These techniques and procedures related to development activities continue to be used by
most of the enterprises regardless of the source of financing.
3.        During the implementation of the project, major changes occurred in the Hungarian
financial sector. The most significant change from the stand point of the project was the introduction
of a two-tier banking system. The new commercial banks took over the on-going projects previously
appraised by NBH and many subloans were concluded after the establishment of these banks. A
significant number of NBH loan officers were employed by these financial institutions so they assured
continuity and consistency as far as appraisal procedures were concemed. In this respect, the project
also offered to the newly established banks an excellent opportunity for leaming and using World
Bank appraisal methods for investment and financing decision making.
4.       The relationship between the Bank and the Hungarian counterpart was good throughout
the preparation and implementation of the project. Hungarian institutions received a lot of assistance
from the Bank staff.  Nevertheless, in certain instances greater flexibility especially in the
procurement process could have accelerated the implementation of the relevant subprojects. Analysis
of procurement actions was prepared conceming two projects - the Crop Production Improvement
and the Integrated Livestock Project - and sent to the Bank in November 1992.
5.       According to Paragraph 14 in Part I, delays in implementation were due to the following
reasons:
*        the requirement of forming "procurement packages",
*        the "ICB threshold ... set fairly low"'
*        the "problems agreeing with the foreign trading companies on commercial and technical
aspects of the bidding process" and
*        the fact that irrespective from the relevant threshold "almost all ICB procurement actions
were submitted to the Bank for reviews".



- 12 -
The last two reasons above were necessarily following the economic conditions prevailing at that time.
Scarce financing resources forced the foreign trading companies to have the Bank's "no objection"
to the procurement actions in advance, even if under the threshold. Running the risk of a
procurement action having been already taken but rejected by the Bank afterwards could have
resulted in failure of the concemed investment.
6.       The Foreign Trading Companies leamed a lot about procurement and they gain by their
close and intensive connection to the Bank which is reflected in the five Reference Bidding
Documents being successfully used ever since they were finalized and issued in early 1990. The
outcome has been exerting a positive effect on all subsequent projects by saving much time in
carrying out an ICB procedure.
7.       In certain cases, however, the Bank demonstrated great flexibility in order to help the
Hungarian counterpart. A good example of that was the speedy and ;fficient assistance the Bank
provided to the Hungarian Government in 1990 allowing the financing of importation of animal feed
in order to eliminate the consequences of the severe drought under the four existing Bank
agricultural credit lines.
8.       To summarize it, the project clearly fulfilled its main objectives, namely increasing foreign
exchange earnings in convertible currency through upgrading the quality of processed meat
production, increasing the efficiency of input supply, and the expansion of exports of processed
animal products. These improvements were major contributors to the sustainable development of
the Hungarian meat industry which will allow it to meet the major challenge of reorganization and
to adjust to new market realities.



- 13 -
PART llk STATSTCAL INR)RMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title               Purpose        Approval     Status         Comments
Grain Storage and          Increase grain         FY83   Clsed          Immediate
Mechanization Project (Li.    production and                            precursor to this
2316-HU)                   decrease harvest                             loan
lobes
Crop Production            Improving efficiency   FY86   Cic led        Implemented in
Improvement Project (Ln.    in field crop                               parallel with this
2738-HU)                   production and                               loan
increase exports
Agroprocessing Modernization  Increase exports of  FY88   Under
Project (Ln. 2936-HU)      agroprocessed                  implementatio
products to                    n.
convertible currency
areas
Integrated Agric. Export   Provide add'l financial   FY90   Under       Design of loan took
Development Project (Ln.    resources to small-           implementatio  into account
3229-HU)                   scale, private and             n.            changing market
larger farmers.                              and banking
conditions,
competed with this
loan during last 18
months of
implementation.
Product Market Development  Strengthen            FY93   Project        Project addresses
Project                    operational and                declared      constraints in
pricing efficiency of          effective     marketing, trade,
product markets.               11/92.        and distnbution
systems..



- 14 -
Table 2. Project Tumetable
Stage                  Planned                Revised       Actual
Identification ........ July 1983 ...................... July 1983
Preparation ......... Nov. 1983 - March 1984 ..... ...... Nov. 1983 - March
1984
Appraisal Mission   .... June 1984 ..................... June 12 - July 5, 1984
Loan Negotiations  .... January 1985 ................... January 14-18, 1985
Board Approval ...... April 1985 ..................... April 2, 1985
Loan Signature ...... April 1985 ..................... April 29, 1985
Loan Effectiveness ....  June 1985 ..................... June 6, 1985
Loan Closing ........ Dec 1990 .....           Dec 1991 ... Dec. 1991
Loan Completion  ..... Dec 1989      ..... March 1992 . March 1992
Table 3. Use of Bank Resources
Table 3A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned"   Final Comments
Through Appraisal Mission                       78.6  Prep. carried out by Min.
Ag. with EDI assistance.
Appraisal through Board Approval                54.8  Elapsed time of 10
months
Board Approval through                            -  One month between
Effectiveness                                         Board and Effectiveness
Supervision                                    149.6  Avg. 22.5 SW per year '
TOTAL                204.5
a/ Not available.
b/ Bulk of supervision time spent on procurement review.



- 15 -
Table 3B. Missions
Numbe   Days
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year    r of     in    Specialization    Performance    Iypes of
Persons   Field   Represented    R Rating Status   Probjems
Through Appraisal
Identification           July 1983        3       11    E,F,L
Preparation              Nov. 1983        5       10    E,F,L,N
Pre-Appraisal            Feb. 1984        3       19    E,F,L
Appraisal                June-July        5       23    E,F,A,L,N
1984
Supervision
July 1985       1        3    E                     1
Feb. 1986       2       12    E,L                   2            3
Nov. 1987       2        8    E,A                   1
June 1988       1        7    E                     1
Feb. 1989       1        3    E                     1
Oct. 1989       3       11    E,F,A                 1            5
June 1990       2        6    E,F                   1           5,7
Nov. 1990       1        6    E                     1           5,7
June 1991       1        3    E                     1           5,7
Nov. 1991       1        3    E                     1           5,7
a/ E = Economist, F = Financial Analyst, A = Agroprocessing Specialist, N = Animal Nutrition Specialist,
L = Livestock Specialist
b/ 1 = Minor or No Problems, 2 = Moderate Problems, 3 = Major Problems
c/ 1 = Project Development Objectives, 2 = Compliance with Covenants, 3 = Project Management,
4 = Availability of Funds, 5 = Procurement, 6 = Training, 7 = Technical Assistance, 8 = Studies,
9 = Environmental Aspects, 10 = Financial Performance



- 16 -
Table 4. Loan Dbursements
USD Mikloms
Appraisal Estimate    Actual Disbursement   Percentage of
Quarter    During   Cumulativce  During    Cumulative    Aptimate
Quarter    Quarter              Quarter                   Estim
FY86
Dec. 1985       6.20        6.20    a/ 5.97       5.97            96
Mar. 1986       1.65        7.85      0.00        5.97            76
Jun. 1986       1.65        9.50      0.19        6.16             65
FY87
Sep. 1986       4.75       14.25      0.00        6.16             43
Dec. 1986       4.75       19.00      0.00        6.16             32
Mar. 1987       6.25       25.25      3.92       10.08             40
Jun. 1987       6.25       31.50      4.40        14.48            46
FY88
Sep. 1987       6.25       37.75      0.00        14.48            38
Dec. 1987       6.25       44.00      0.86        15.34            41
Mar. 1988       5.20       49.20      4.19        19.53            40
Jun. 1988       5.20       54.40      4.70       24.23             45
FY89
Sep. 1988       4.30       58.70       1.85      26.08             44
Dec. 1988       4.30       63.00      2.90       28.98            46
Mar. 1989       3.70       66.70      5.59       34.57             52
Jun. 1989       3.70       70.40      5.31       39.88             57
FY90
Sep. 1989       2.90       73.30      2.97       42.85             58
Dec. 1989       2.90       76.20      3.22       46.07             60
Mar. 1990       1.15       77.35      3.83       49.90             65
Jun. 1990       1.15       78.50       1.45      51.35             65
FY91
Sep. 1990       1.00       79.50      4.00       55.35             70
Dec. 1990       0.50       80.00    l/ 5.55      60.90             76
Mar. 1991                          bJ 7.85       68.75            86
Jun. 1991                           kJ 5.89      74.64             93
FY92
Sep. 1991                           j 3.82       78.46            98
Dec. 1991                             1.54    J 79.99             100
a/ Initial deposit to special accounL
b/ Actual disbursements higher, but as recovery of $6 million special account commenced,
disbursement figures are reduced.
c/ $17,625 recovered by the World Bank due to exchange rate fluctuations for transactions made
under Special Account.



- 17 -
Table 5. Project Implemeltation
Key Indicators
(Number of Units)
Item                             Appraisal Estimate       Actual
Livestock Production
Pig Farms                              32                24
Beef Farms                             56                14
Dairy Farms                             12               47
Sheep Farms                            21                 9
Poultry Farms                            -                6
Slaughterhouses                           7              13 a/
Animal Feed and Input Supply
Dry Feedmills                          30                18
High Moisture Feedmills                27
High Concentrate Feedmill                1                1
Meatpulp Feedmill                        1
Bloodmeal and Feathermeal                1                1
Processing
Dairy Production
UHT Milk Plants                         5                 6
Ultra Filtering Plants                  4
Milking Liner Plant                      1
Enzymes and Antibiotics Plant              1                1
Seed Production Farms                      -               33
Animal Feed (Soyabean Pellets)             -       27,000 tons
a/ In addition to seven major modernizations, six other slaughterhouses received small subloans
for specialized processing machinery.



- 18 -
6. Project Costs and Fmancng
Table 6A. Project Cass in US Dollar Milonm
Appraisal Estimate JActual 
Local        Foreip       Total      Local}y      Financed       Total
Costs    Exchange Costs             Fmanced       From WB
Loan
Livestock
Production         83.8             36.7      120.5        70.9          12.8         83.7
Agroindustry       85.6            101.5      187.1        9&6           49.1        147.7
Research and
Training            6.0              7.1       13.1         3.4           5.3          8.7
Working Capital
for Animal Feed      -               --                     -             5.5          5.5
Seed Production      -               -          -          10.9           5.4         16.3
Marketing            1.7             2.8        4.5         0.7           1.9          2.6
Services
TOTAL    177.1             14&1       325.2       184.5          80.0        264.5
Table 6B. Project Costs in Hungarian Forint Millions
Appraisa Estimate a        |               Actual 
Local       Foreign       Total  |Locally    Financed from       Total
Costs       Exchange             |Financed       WB Loan
Costsl
Livestock
Production            4189       1836          6025    4463             836         5298
Agroindustry           4267      5088           9355    5614           2759         8373
Research and
Training                309       346            655     218            341          559
Working Capital
for Animal Feed           -         -              -       -            411          411
Seed Production           -         -              -    697             349         1046
Marketing               91        134            225      30             84          114
Services
TOTAL          8856      7404         16,260  11,021           4779        15,800
a/ Appraisal estimate includes physical and price contingencies.
b/ Breakdown of costs by foreign or domestic source not available.



- 19 -
Table 6C Project Filning
USD Mifions
IBRD Expenditure                 Planned                  Fmal
Categories
Subloans for.
Equipment for                  22.3                    30.1
Feedmills, Meat Pulp
Processing, Antibiotics
and enzyme production,
rendering, milking
machine liners and
livestock production and
research facilities
Livestock purchase              2.0                     0.8
Equipment for                  40.0                    41.2
slaughterhouse and dairy
processing facilities
Consultant services,            5.0                     1.8
training, marketing
services and production
licenses.
Working Capital Inputs              -                      5.5
Institutional Development          0.5                     0.5
Special Account                    6.0
Unallocated                        4.2                  a/ .1
TOTAL IBRD                80.0                   80.0
Domestic Sources                 245.2                   184.5
GRAND TOTAL              325.2                  264.5
a/ Currency Exchange Rate fluctuations for transactions made under the special account.



- 20 -
7. Project Results
Table 7A Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate at Full           Actual
Development
Incremental Production ('000 Tons)
Onfarm Production
Pigs                                             21.0                         26.0
Fat Steers                                       3.6                           4.8
Sheep/Mutton                                    3.2/2.5                        a/
Cow Milk/Cheese                                18.0/3.0                   62,000 liters
Animal Feed/Input Supply
Dry Feedmills                                    742                         n/a b/
High Moisture Feedmills                          350
Bloodmeal Processing                              14                         n/a c/
Feathermeal Processing                            20                         n/a c/
Agroindustry
Slaughterhouses                                  72.3                        n/a d/
Ultra-High Temperature Milk (million             60                            90
liters)
Ultra-Filtration Milk                             36
a/ Sheep milk for cheese and wool as incremental production instead of meat - 1.7 million liters of sheep milk
and 168,000 kg of wool.
b/ Actual figure not available, but substantially lower due to decrease in number of investments.
c/ Actual figure not available, but substantially lower due to decreased capacity utilization due to lack of raw
material supply.
d/ Incremental production figures for specific plant investments not available from enterprises.



- 21 -
Table 7B Project Impact
Appraisal Estimate         Actual a/
Rates of Return            Financial   Economic
Onfarm Investments
Beef Farm (Breeding)    14%         20%               n/a
Beef Farm (Fattening)   25%         29%               n/a
Dairy Farm              15%         17%              15%
Pig Farm                19%        27%               400%
Sheep Farm              15%         17%              13%
Feed Mills
Dry Feed Mill           13%         16%              17%
High Moisture Feed      30%         38%
Mill
Concentrate Feed Mill    16%        14%              15%
Slaughterhouses
Debrecen b/            28%         37%               n/a
Szekszard               17%        23%               n/a
Gyula                  36%         44%               n/a
Kapuvar                24%         30%               n/a
Cegled                  16%        17%               n/a
Miskolc                29%         36%               n/a
Papa                   20%         28%               n/a
Dairy Plants
UHT Plants             29%         37%               40%
Ultrafiltering Plants  38%         42%
Enzymes and Antibiotics    32%        37%             negative
Meatpulp Feedmill          27%        25%
Bloodmeal Processing       18%        22%             negative
Feathermeal Processing     13%        17%             negative
Seed Production               -           -               40%
Overall Project                         24%              25% c/
a/ Due to the relatively low distortions in the pricing, foreign exchange, and trading regimes in
Hungary, it is assumed that the recalculated financial and economic rates of return are equivalenL
b/ Debrecen was the only pre-identified slaughterhouse investment to drop out of the project It
was replaced by Gyongos.
c/ Assumes slaughterhouse returns will eventually approximate appraisal estimates.



- 22 -
Table 7C  Hungy's Meat Exportstm
Before Project    After
Project
Processed Meats (Tons)
Salted meat b                                            61          2,300
Sausage                                               10,800        15,900
Canned Meat                                           58,400        53,900
Processed Meats (1992 constant US$1,000)
Salted meat                                             491          7,996
Sausage                                               50,156        72,495
Canned Meat                                          141,524       138,593
Destination of Exports c
Total Meat Exports (millions of 1992 constant dollars)    873          779
Of which to convertible currency markets              365           619
(As percentage)                                       42%           79%/o
a/ Comparing 1985 with 1990. Source: FAO.
b/ Includes Bacon and Ham.
c/ Comparing 1985 with 1991. Source: USDA and FAO.



-23 -
& Staus of Covenants
Original   Revised
Agreement  Section   Status    Date      Date           Description of Covenant               Comments
Loan     2.02(b)    OK      6/85                Establish a revoMng fund, I.e., specia
account In the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH).
3.04(b)ii   OK                        Subloans for ontarm investment not to  Borrower requested a
Schedule 6                             exceed 10 years mat. including 2 years    change of the current
of grace. Subloans for agroindustry  ratio from not ess than
not to exceed 12 years mat. including  2:1 to not ess than
3 years of grace. Beneficiry to      1.3:1. Justfibcation Is
contribute at least 20% of total     provided In Annex 1 to
Investment cost, maintain debt to    the Aide Memoirs of
equlty ratio of not more than 60:40,  October 13, 1989. The
debt service ratio of not less than 1.5:1    request was granted.
and current ratio of 2:1.
3.04(b)ii   OK                        Subloan shall be made at interest rate
Schedule 6                             of not less than variable Bank on
lending rate plus a service charge of
30%.
3.05 para 2   OK     9/91      11/91    Submit to the Bank semi-annual       Some commercial banks
progress reports on the execution of  were late In submitting
Part A of the project.                progress reports, but
were eventually
submitted.
4.01 (b) (Ti)    OK                     Submit to the Bank an annual audit of
project accounts.
Side Letter            OK                         NBH to obtain annual audit reports on
4/29/85                                         enterprises with investments over
US$400,000 and Inform the Bank on
debt/equity ratio.
Side Letter           OK                          Annual agrlcuftural policy review on  MEM provkied annual
4/29/85                                         changes In agrlcuftural and           policy revlew for 1992.
agroindustrial policy.
Side Letter            OK                         Govemment would not increase          Subsidy reductions
5/29/85                                         subsidies of Ft 11.6 billion paid to milk    exceed targets.
producers or to consumers.
Guarantee    3.04     OK   6/92                   NBH to prepare a project completion   Data submited.
report
O:    Covenant complied with
SOON: Compliance cpcped in resonable sbort time
NYD:  Not yet due
ACT:   Needs use of formal rmedies to br about compliance
RVS:   Needs to be rvised












- U~G      Y                                                                                                                                                  IBRDO 18681 R
APPRAISAL OF INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
EWoflwvon. in M.t.tt            , EnttrpEst.. nd RPt-trn, SI.ton=   Censis ...                                                 =U
_ Above4~~~~~~~110,.lt H.gh T-mpe-tu- M,tk Ml.nt                  9      aioa1Captl|yv3t 
;   Ul-ra Fdltr,.o- P---.'                                                          /        '' U-' -     I                                >-|
-oWC- r3   s     o0  30  40   S o   70 2 0 1               Ph,la.,. Con.np -and.-
M 1 E s o  10    20  30  c  s0    +        BOSCOOP
~~~7d  ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ CeBsz             d-dFpteRtd-nPlf
F \ _ ,Z_> d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~twher infotr,nostioon showm,
CROATIA                                         M\r                                                                                                                                                 on  ds  no-   do y   no
SLOVAK REP. ~   ~       ~     ~      RP  O                                                                                           oy,dg,nto telea
'2-ie                    -<2                         FED.            YUGOSLAVIA                                                                          RtOMA o       IA a  t.roorat
S-L'k.1y    z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ayenosmn
rv _ J.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r a,,,   O ceptatnce of uach
''  \                         'F                         j                                                               De~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEM.Et 99fQ



