Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3973-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATION'AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVF. DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
February 27, 1985
This documnt hs a resbicted distributon and may be ued by reipients only in the performance of
their officid dues Its contents may not otberwise be diwlosed without World Bnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984       December 1984
Currency Unit   a        Forint (Ft)
US$1            =        Ft 48.04            Ft 50.8
Ft I            *       US$0.021             US$0.195
Exchange rate used in calculating
project costs and benefits: US$1.0 = Ft 50.
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGROBER       -       Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK       -       Agricultural Equipment Import Agency
EEC           -       European Economic Commnimity
KOMPLEX       -       Agroindustrial Equipment Foreign Trade Company
KOPINT        -        Institute for Marl''t Research
MEM           -       Ministry of AgricuLture and Food Industry
NBE           -       National Bank of Hungary
USDA          -       United States Department of Agriculture



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
TNTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:        Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:           US$80 million equ-ivalent
Terms:            Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:            US$79.5 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to
cooperatives, state farms, enterprises and autonomous
research agencies for a maximum period of 12 years including
a maximum of three years of grace at an interest rate at
least equal .o the Bank rate plus a 302 mark-up which
includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
NBE.
Project
Description:      The proposed project seeks to improve production efficiency
in the livestock industry and to increase convertible
foreign exchange earnings through the expansion of exports
of processed animal products. It would help strengthen the
livestock industry by rehabilitating and expanding existing
facilities which would provide inputs or directly produce
cattle, pigs and sheep and processed meat and cheese; it
would also provide funds for pasture and livestock research,
management training for large farms and slaughterhouses, and
export marketing services. The project would consist of
five investment componencs: (a) animal feed and livestock
input supply; (b) on-farm production; (c) agroindustrial
processing; (d) research and training; and (e) export
marketing services.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        The project is expected to generate incremental sales
revenue at full development of about US$140 million
equivalent and pretax profits of about US$25 million
equivalent per annum for about 170 beneficiaries, ranging
from farms to meat processing plants. The expected
incremental contribution to the Government budget in the
form of annual income tax is estimated at US$13 million
equivalent. Net foreign exchange earnings and savings are
estimated at US$58 million equivalent per year. The project
is expected to create about 2,240 new jobs and strengthen
the beneficiaries, both in their financial position and in
their technical level of production. Non-quantifiable
benefits of the project include institution building in the
areas of strengthening the export marketing system,
training, and reduction of environmental pollution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by Tecipients only in the performance
oftheirofficial duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The major risks reflect the difficulty of penetrating new
markets or expanding the market share for the project's
export commodities and the possible lag effect of the
research program to find useful commercial packages of
technology in marginal grassland improvement, dairy hygiene,
beef cattle development, and wet-feeding of pigs. Measures
have, however, been designed into the project to minimize
these risks.
Estimated Costs:                               Local    Foreign      Total
----US $ Million
Livestock Production
Pigs                                      22.5       10.8       33.3
Beef                                      23.7        5.9       29.6
Dairy                                     11.5        6.7       18.2
Sheep                                      8.4        4.7       13.1
Agroindustry
Slaughterhouses                           38.7       46.2       84.9
Feedmills and Input Supply                22.0       18.7       40.7
Dairy Processing Plants                    3.0        9.9       12.9
Rendering Plants                           2.4        2.0        4.4
Engineering, Research & Training              5.0        5.6       10.6
Export Marketing                              1.6        2.3        3.9
Base Cost                                   138.8      112.8      251.6
Physical Contingencies                       11.9       10.1       22.0
Price Contingencies                          26.4       25.2       51.6
Total Project Cost                          177.1 /1  148.1       325.2
/1 Includes $63 million of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign      Total
…------US $ Million
World Bank                                    -         80.0       80.0
Beneficiaries                                76.8        -         76.8
NBH                                         100.3       68.1      168.4
Total                                    177.1      148.1      325.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY              1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
--- - -US $ Million -- -  -
Annual                9.5      22.0     22.9      16.0      8.1       1.5
Cumulative            9.5     31.5      54.4      70.4     78.5     80.0
Economic Rate of Return: 24 percent.
Appraisal Report: No. 5343-HU, dated February 12, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR AN INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) with the guarantee of the Hungarian
People's Republic for the equivalent OL US$80 million to help finance an
integrated livestock industry project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
About $79.5 million of the loan proceeds would be onlent to cooperatives,
state farms, enterprises and autonomous research agencies for a maximum period
of 12 years including a maximum of three years of grace at an interest rate at
least equal to the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up which includes a fee for the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH. The balance of about $0.5 million
would be passed on to the Government (Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry, for training of research staff) which would be responsible for
servicing this portion of the Bank loan. Cofinancing from commercial lending
institutions is being sought for this project in conjunction with a Fine
Chemicals Project and a Transport Project which are also being considered for
Bank financing.
PART I: THE ECONOMY-'
2.        Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-HU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Investment Review Mission visited Hungary in October/November 1984 and its
preliminary findings are included in this section. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is
a small land-locked country with a population of about 10.8 million in 1984,
covering an area of 93,000 square km. Hungary has historically been a nexus
of social, cultural, and trade linkages between Eastern and Western Europe.
It is a country of relatively meager natural resources, although it has
significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite and some hydrocarbons, and
advantageous conditions for some agricultural products. It has a long history
of industrialization in certain branches of industry (notably textiles and
other light industries), which has been extended in the decades since World
War II to heavy industries, including chemicals, metallurgy and engineering.
The country has a homogeneous population with a single language. Being
Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Fine Chemicals
Project, to be considered by the Executive Directors on Marcia 26, 1985.



-2-
relatively small and without major topographical diversity between regions,
Hungary is not marked by regional disparities in development. Incomes are
also quite evenly distributed as a matter of social policy, and most services
are of a moderately high standard. While an the whole the population enjoys a
standard of living higher than in many countries of Eastern Europe, wage
levels remain low, the choice of consumer goods is relatively limited, and
there are still major deficiencies in housing and in access to potable water
and sewerage facilities, particularly in rural areas.
The Economic System
4.        The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when
planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was fully
centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Since 1968, the emphasis in reform has been twofold: on
strengthening the influence of the market on enterprise activities and on
developing a system of "economic regulators" through which the State maintains
control of overall economic activity. These regulators include credit control
through the centralized National Bank and the State Development Bank, which
are the only two sources of credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation
through centrally determined formulae; and the regulation of the net surplus
from production through a series of fiscal measures and control over
enterprise reserve funds. The State has direct control over certain
investments, generally in infrastructure and large capital-intensive plants,
which are largely financed directly by the budget or from State Development
Bank loans.
5.        The "Socialist" sector, comprising all enterprises, state farms and
agricultural cooperatives, accounts for some 90% of GDP. Private activity is
evident in the so-called "second economy" where individuals enter into
production, trade and service activities for their own benefit. The second
economy is particularly important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings is a large share of the total. In industry, the
practice for workers in enterprises to group together into "Contract Work
Associations" to utilize the industrial plant after hours has been
increasing. These second economy activities are encouraged as a means of
raising labor productivity, increasing capacity utilization, and enhancing
personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.        The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (411 in 1984
with 391 of total employment), reflecting a more advanced degree of
industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high share of
heavy industry in total industrial output (67Z in 1984), reflecting the
emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries; (c) a
relatively high share of the labor force employed in agriculture (22Z in 1984)
compared to industrial market economies, implying that, in principle, there is
significant scope for labor productivity growth and further shifts of labor



-3-
out of this sector; (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign trade (about
402). Hungary's high trade dependence makes it vulnerable to shifts in world
trade and prices, and is a principal factor underlying the reforms which aim
at increasing the adaptability of the economy to changes in world markets.
Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy consumption and a large
proportion of its other inputs to industry. While manufactures constitute a
major share of total exports (642 in 1984), they are more significant with
respect to exports to the CMEA countries; major shares of exports to
convertible currency markets are comprised of agricultural commodities (about
29Z) and raw materials (about 322).
7.        From 1975 to 1984, GDP grew in real terms by an average of 2.8S
p.a., led by industry (3.8X). Services and agriculture grew less rapidly at
about 2.5X and 3.6X, respectively. Since Hungary's population growth is
almost stagnant, growing at an average rate of 0.192 per annum in the period
1975-84, growth in per capita income was almost equal to growth in GDP. This
has meant that in the past the State has been able to sustain a high
investment rate while still maintaining a significant real increase in
consumption, which grew by 2.2Z per annum during the period. However, wages
remain low in Hungary, and in 1984 the average wage in industry in the
Socialist sector was about US$100 per month. Social benefits (in consumer
subsidies and services), however, represent a significant part of household
incomes.
8.        Hungary's low population growth has resulted in a virtual stagnation
of the labor force; during the period 1975-84 it actually declined by 0.3Z
p.a. Moreover, total employment also declined by 145,000 jobs, despite the
substantial growth in GDP. This has led to a growing perception of a labor
shortage in Hungary which has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt
modern techniques to raise labor productivity, and shift labor out of
overmanned positions into more efficient activities. Some of this is evident
in the changing pattern of employment over recent years. During the 1975-84
period, for example, there were net employment shifts out of agriculture and
less efficient industry in the urban centers into smaller scale, rural based
industry, and into the service sector.
Government Policies
9.        Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities in development, and the relatively equal distribution of income
that its policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do
not rank as the first priorities of policy. While raising general living
standards is a major objective, the policy focus centers on the structural
issues of investment, growth, and efficiency. More recently, in response to
growing liquidity pressures in the convertible currency accounts brought about
by the combined effects of Hungary's debt burden, its propensity to import,
and the relative softening of world export markets, there has been a priority
focus on restoring the external balance. During 1982 the country faced both a
financial crisis and a loss of confidence within the international'banking
cummunity. In the first quarter of that year, the withdrawal of foreign
currency balances by major depositors brought reserves down from $1.7 billion
to $0.5 billion, barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and
services. In this situation the Government secured the support of the IMF to



- 4 -
restore its financial balances and build u? the country's depleted reserves
through a stringent stabilization program.-'
10.       The Government has also recognized the need to make longer run
structural adjustments but can do so only insofar as present financial
constraints permit. These structural objectives include institutional changes
as well as modifications in the structure of economic activity to reflect the
changed conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of prime importance is
the need to become more competitive in the convertible currency markets for                  d
manufactures, increase the exportable surplus of agricultural products, and
reduce imports of energy and raw materials. To raise the net convertible
currency yield from production and trade will require greater efficiency in
production, improved product quality and, in turn, an upgrading of the
country's productive investment, much of which is outdated and based on
energy- and input-intensive technologies.
11.       While the economic reforms-involving market-based pricing and
increased enterprise autonomy-are the centerpiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set certain measures in place to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
priority lines of credit in the National Bank-for energy saving. material
recycling, and export-oriented investments-and the adoption of certain
"centralized development programs" in priority industries through which the
State coordinates and supports enterprise investments.
Recent Economic Developments
12.       Hungary has been successful in surmounting the external financing
crisis which arose in 1982. Two interrelated factors have contributed to
this. First, the stabilization program begun in 1979 and strengthened after
1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrangements has been
successfully implemented; in 1983 it generated a $300 million surplus in the
convertible currency account (about 8P of total imports of goods) and in 1984
it has given rise to a surplus of about $350 million. Second, there has been
a return of confidence in Hungary in the international capital markets, as
evidenced by the increasing amounts of loans available from commercial banks.
Medium- and long-term capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-84
period are expected to total about $3.7 billion including $663 million raised
through Bank cofinancing. Net convertible currency capital inflows for the
period are estimated at $900 million. The combined effects of the current
account surpluses and the large medium- and long-term borrowing has led to a
rapid growth in convertible reserves: in 1984 they were about 75% above the
average figure for 1983 (quarterly data). Nevertheless, despite this
strengthening of reserves, the need for continued emphasis on maintaining a
stable external balance remains. There is a need to bring about some
reduction in the overall debt levels while expanding the country's import
capacity to improve its growth prospects.
-'  An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in December
1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was approved in
January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently contemplated.



-5-
13.       With regard to non-convertible currency transactions, the country
has had to cope with stagnating supplies of the favorably priced oil and raw
materials imports from socialist countries and deteriorating terms of trade.
Hungary's ruble imports of fuels and electric energy declined in 1983 and, in
compliance with the stipulations of the Bucharest agreements, prices of oil
imports have been rising toward world market levels; in 1982, terms of trade
with the ruble area deteriorated by 3.1S, in 1983 by 2.71, and a further
decline of 2% has been estimated for 1984. In addition, the lines of credit
to finance ruble trade deficits have been curtailed.  Hungary's response has
been to increase exports in order to reduce the trade gap and stabilize or
reduce the debt to the non-convertible currency area. Ruble exports increased
by 31 in 1983 and an estimated 61 in 1984 (in real terms).
14.       The improvement of the country's external balance has to a great
extent been brought about by tight demand management policies. In 1983,
although reductions in aggregate demand fell short of targets, gross fixed
investment was reduced by about 31-largely through decreases in enterprise
investment-and consumption was constrained to 0.3% growth.  In 1984, demand
management controls were relaxed somewhat, and domestic absorption
(consumption plus investment) remained nearly constant. However, control of
aggregate demand, limited external financing, and only a moderate expansion in
exports considerably restricted output growth; in 1983, GDP grew at 0.81, and
in 1984, growth was about 2.41.
External Debt
15.       In September 1984, Hungary's medium- and long-term debt was $7.8
billion (of which $6.8 billion was in convertible currencies), representing
about 41% of GDP. Current Government policy is to gradually reduce the M&LT
debt and lengthen its average maturity from 5 to 6 years. Moreover, policy
strives to limit the expansion of short-term borrowing.
16.       Hungary is currently servicing a bulge in the profile of debt
amortizations, and debt service in 1983 and 1984 has been high ($2.0 billion
in 1983 and about $2.4 billion in 1984). Bank projections indicate that the
convertible currency debt-service ratio (amortizations plus interest payments
on M&LT debt, divided by exports of goods and services) will rise from 411 in
1984 to a peak of 441 in 1985 and then decline to about 20% by the end of the
decade.
*      17.       Debt in non-convertible currencies is smaller, about $1.0 billion in
September 1984--more than three-quarters of it in inter-government long-term
credit. The non-convertible currency debt service ratio is low (about 3%),
due to the low interest rates and long maturities.
Medium-term Outlook
18.       After a period of relatively slow growth, an upturn in the economy
is anticipated toward the end of the decade: GDP is projected to grow by 2.7Z
p.a. in 1984-87 and by 3.62 p.a. in 1988-90. Bank projections indicate that
it may be possible to ease stabilization program restrictions after 1987,



although some restraint of aggregate demand will have to be maintained
throughout the decade to ensure continued surpluses in the current account.
Government authorities plan to increase wages moderately in real terms, but
keep consumption growth below that of GDP. Investment is expected to be held
down to a 1-2% growth per annum during 1984-87, but to rise more rapidly
thereafter.
19.       The favorable impact of the structural adjustment effort on the
country's economic growth path will be more fully perceived during the second
half of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to be the leading
beneficiary of the restructuring effort and grow at an average rate of about
4-4.52. A more conservative average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (3%). Notwithstanding the marked deficiencies in certain
areas of the service sector's infrastructure, rapid improvements are not
contemplated in Government plans for the coming years, and the growth of the
sector is expected to lag.
External Capital Requirements
20.       Bank projections until 1988 indicate that Hungary's annual
amortization of its convertible currency medium- and long-term debt will
average about $1.7 billion (including repayments to the IMF). If
stabilization efforts continue to be successful and surpluses in the current
account can be sustained at an average level of about $400 million, gross M&LT
capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.3 billion p.a. Bank
financing will provide some of those capital needs. The rest will have to be
obtained from commercial banks. The projected borrowing requirements appear
high compared to the level of financing obtained in 1982, but they are below
the gross M&LT capital inflows for 1983 and 1984. The Bank's presence in
future cofinancing operations remains important in facilitating--as it has in
the past two years--Hungary's continued access to the international capital
markets. In 1989-90, the situation should improve considerably, for annual
amortizations should decline to about $1.1 billion. At that time, it will be
possible to relax the efforts to restrain import demand, thus permitting
faster economic growth.
Country Performance and Creditworthiness
21.       Hungary is in a better external liquidity situation than it was two
years ago. Although the balance of payments continues to be highly vulnerable
to external shocks, continued strong demand management provides reasonable
assurance that the economy will remain sound in the medium term. The
prospects for a moderate upturn in the Hungarian economy during the latter
part of the decade appear promising in the light of the authorities'
commitment to a comprehensive structural adjustment program designed to
strengthen the role of the market in the operation of the economy. The policy
dialogue at the macro and micro levels between the Hungarian authorities and
the Bank has been fruitful. In view of the country's growing ability to adapt
to a changing world environment, as evidenced by the gradual but firm
stabilization policies implemented during the past two years, its well
organized management system with effective institutions and clear policy
objectives, and its reasonably good prospects for maintaining external balance
and re-establishing a moderate rate of growth in the coming years, Hungary is
considered creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY 1/
22.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank comuitments to Hungary to
$605.4 million for nine loans (including four 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture and
energy.
23.       Given the country's per capita income, the Bank's lending to Hungary
for the next few years will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry, energy and transport. The
Bank generally concurs with this selection of priorities, and has chosen to
support Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based lending
aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the energy
sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant upgrading
and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more efficient
input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality; and
industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise activities
and encourage more efficient industries to produce intermediate goods,
sub-assemblies and components, both for export and as import substitutes.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1984.
24.       The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the Bank
was a successful catalyst in mobilizing four commercial cofinancing
syndications: a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization and the
Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects; and a 385 million
Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for the
Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects. The Bank
participated in these syndications with 'B' loans of $30 million and $8.8
million equivalent, respectively, for the first two projects, and $35 million
and $12.2 million equivalent, respectively, for the latter two projects. In
both these cofinancing operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over
the most recent Hungarian borrowings and to introduce Hungary to commercial
banks from which it had not borrowed previously.
25.       While the Bank has mounted a relatively robust lending and
cofinancing program in Hungary, it has also offered significant non-financial
assistance through its impact on project design and macro-economic and sector
policy, and through the provision of technical assistance.  The Bank has
influenced project design to some degree in all projects so far financed,
generally by eliminating components with lower net foreign exchange impacts.
It has also made a contribution to macro-economic policy at the analytical
level through the two economic reports so far completed and the investment
review presently in progress which have examined the process and substance of
economic reforms, commented on pricing and subsidy issues and the incentive
system, and suggested areas where further studies are needed. Partly as a
result of this work, sector studies have been commissioned in agriculture
(prices, subsidies and trade policy); in the power and coal sector (now
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the Fine
Chemicals Project, to be considered by the Executive Directors on
March 26, 1985.



-8-
complete, containing major recommendations on policy and investment options);
and in several industrial subsectors as part of a major industrial
restructuring analysis emphasizing efficiency and exports.  Partly also as a
result of the emphasis given by the Bank to these issues, the government has
acted to eliminate interest rate rebates on exports (January 1984), to remove
a point interest differential in favor of agriculture, and to continue its
efforts to reduce a range of important subsidies to producers (agricultural
inputs) and to consumers (milk, electricity, long range transportation).
There have also been elements of technical assistance in several projects so
far financed. In the Petroleum project, the Bank is financing expert services
from a Western oil company to help manage the exploration and enhanced oil
recovery programs and to provide training; the grain storage and mechanization
project contained provision for a new management information system, it
offered training in grain handling, and it provided access to improved input-
output grain storage modelling; the livestock project contains a specific
marketing component aimed at strengthening Hungary's export promotion
capabilities; and several projects have had financial covenants which, even
accounting for the special features of Hungary's financial system, has
enhanced the attention of project beneficiaries to financial autonomy and
profitability.
26.       The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14% of
Hungary's total projected convertible currency debt in 1990, and the Bank's
share in Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9% by
that time.
27.       Hungary's application for membership in IFC and IDA have been
approved by the Governors of IFC and IDA.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN HUNGARY
General
28.       Agriculture is of major importance to the Hungarian economy.  It
has largely fulfilled the country's need for food; has generated significant
surpluses for export thus permitting the importation of inputs needed for
industrial growth; has generated taxable surpluses which provide savings for
national investment; and it has been a source of labor release for growth in
other sectors of the economy.  The sector's role in generating convertible
currency earnings continues to be of particular importance, since it has a
high net foreign exchange yield, evidenced by the fact that in recent years it
accounted for about 32% of convertible currency exports, but less than 13% of
convertible currency imports. In 1983, agriculture accounted for 17% of
national income, about 22% of total employment, and some 15% of total
investment. Hungarian agriculture has earned deserved eminence in grain
production, in terms of yield levels, compared to other European countries.
There is, however, scope for improvement in productive performance and
economic efficiency in the livestock industry.  Important potentials remain
under-exploited, and the technoLogical base of the sector is in need of



- 9 -
upgrading. For all these reasons, arkd following also from the fact that the
sector is responsive to well-designed incentives, agriculture in Hungary can
contribute in important ways to the structural adjustment needs which face the
country in the next several years.
Sector Organization
29.      After World War II, Hungarian agxiculture was collectivized and
structured to conform to the centrally planned system. It was in agriculture,
however, that the reforms of that system, and the departure from physical
targetting in favor of economic, market-based production/investment decisions,
were first introduced.  The sector is organized around State farms of which
there are 131 and cooperatives of which there are 1320. There remains a
significant degree of State intervention in the sector, mainly in the form of
price and tax/subsidy interventions, and of regulations on investment and use
of profits. Although input and output prices have traditionally been
established on a cost plus basis, in recent years annual adjustments to these
have been on the basis of movements in international prices of these products,
and subsidy levels in agricultural inputs have continued to decline. The
policy of the Government with regard to agricultural pricing is to move in
time towards an alignment of domestic and international prices. Services and
credit are delivered to the sector at market-based terms through State
organizations, and output is marketed mainly through State agencies at
pre-determined prices which are adjusted to reflect movements in border
prices. The State retains a marketing monopoly on staples such as milk, meat,
and bread. Under recent policy changes, individuals frequently market other
products such as fruits and vegetables in permanent prime urban sites which
are leased, under a competitive process, from the State. This development is
expected to expand. Planning in agriculture has been retained in the system.
but as an instrument of indicative forecasting only; the pursuit of centrally
pre-set physical targets has been long abandoned.
30.       At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MEM).
It initiates virtually all the sectoral planning, policy formulation and
research, provides plant and animal protection services and undertakes other
general support activities. The other State organs directly regulating
agriculture are the National Planning Office, which is responsible for
development plans and is involved in all aspects of economic and social
policy; the National Board for Material and Prices, which makes
recommendations for administrative pricing for ali agricultural products as
well as materials and equipment used by the agricultural sector; and the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH), which is the major source of agricultural
credit.
31.       The NBH combines the function of the Central Bank with that of
commercial and development banks. All financial transactions in the
agricultural sector are entirely conducted through NBH. It administers the
State farms' and cooperatives' deposits which constitute their principal
financial assets. It is involved in all phases of project appraisal,
execution and supervision, and has a large technical, financial and economic
staff located in Budapest, 19 regional offices and 71 branches throughout the
countrv. It employs about 6,400 persons, about 25% of whom are directly or



- 10 -
indirectly engaged in agricultural lending. It also has thorough and strict
review and approval procedures for all investment projects. Under such
procedures project eligibility is based on cash flow models demonstrating
technical efficiency and foreign exchange earning potential. NBH's financial
statements indicate that the institution is in a very sound financial position.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
I
32.       Hungarian agriculture has performed well over the last,fifteen years
with an average annual growth rate of 2.92 in real terms. The 1970-74 period
was the most outstanding, when growth averaged 3.91 per annum and the sector
received major investment support from the central budget in the' form of
investment subsidies and grants. Corn and wheat yields increased
substantially during this period and capital-intensive animal production
systems were set up.  This investment pliase was also characterized by
production subsidies, high taxation and a more detailed control of uses and
sources of farm profits. Farms were heavily capitalized due, in part, to
labor scarcity for routine, heavy jobs and to land being taken out of
agriculture for housing, park and highway development. This period was
followed by more modest growth until 1979, when national policy restricted
investment for the purpose of improving the foreign trade account. Imports
were reduced and items such as petroleum, animal protein, and farm machinery
became scarce. The agricultural sector reacted by emphasizing wheat and meat
production for export without major new investments in civil works and
equipment. Despite the rapid depreciation of the capital stock and lack of
replacement investment, the sector has grown in real terms at a rate of 3.52
over the last five years.
Sector Policies
33.       The thrust of Government policy in agriculture is to decrease
subsidies while at the same time increasing the prices paid to farmers in a
coordinated manner without causing major disruptions in farmers' income. This
policy of economic liberalization, which began in 1968, was re-emphasized in
1979 by the formulation of a series of policy measures which are now being
implemented. The major policy actions carried out over 1983-84 eliminated
subsidies on tractors and most farm machinery; reduced subsidies on
fertilizers by about 15%, bringing the level of subsidy down to about 30Z;
eliminated subsidies on plant chemicals; eliminated the obligatory reserve
fund which influenced investments of individual farms; and reduced the
corporate profit tax from an a-erage of 351 to 301.  Government is also
undertaking major reforms in the management structure of the large farms and
in taxing wages. State-owned farms will now be allowed to select their own
managers as do the agricultural cooperatives and hence would enjoy greater
independence from central control. Liberalization of the wage policy allows
greater differentiation in pay to encourage productivity.
34.       In keeping with the Gove-nment's policy to move toward market-based
pricing, aggregate subsidies from the central budget to the agricultural
sector have significantly declined over the last five years. From 1979 to
1983, subsidies declined by some 30Z when calculated in 1976 prices. Current
estimated subsidies are about 20Z of agricultural GDP. The Government is
aware that these subsidies have constituted a heavy burden on the budget, and



- 11 -
that they could also cause inefficiencies and misallocation of resources in
the economy.  The Go-ernment, therefore, is committed to removing overall
subsidies within the framework of its ongoing economic reforms and, not
wishing to cause abrupt disruptions in the economy, has adopted as its
long-run objective the gradual reduction of subsidies on all products. A
major step was recently taken in this regard. On January 21, 1985, consumer
prices were raised sharply for food including milk and dairy products
(15-27%), urban transport (1001), househola fuel oil (30%) and electricity
(181). The effect of these price increases and a simultaneous adjustment in
the structure of subsidies has resulted in the overall subsidy to the dairy
subsector declining by 171 over the 1984 level. At negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it is its policy to reduce subsidies to dairy
farmers and consumers and has informed the Bank that there shall be no net
increase in the total amount of current forints spent on subsidies in the
dairy subsector beyond the 1984 level.
35.       Another issue in the sector is the presence of some product price
distortions. In the course of preparing the first project (Grain Storage and
Mechanization) the Bank noted an apparent distortion in the relative prices of
corn and wheat which tended to encourage the production of the former although
the latter normally is traded at a higher value in the international market.
Subsequently, the Ministry of Agriculture undertook a study on agricultural
prices and trade. The first phase of the study on wheat and corn, presented
to the Bank in September 1984, concluded that the system of prices, taxes, and
subsidies caused disincentives to farmers as measured by effective protection
rates (border prices). As a consequence, the Government recently undertook
measures to increase the price spread between wheat and corn at the farm level
and to increase the overall level of prices to farmers. Further work is now
being carried out under the study by including about 12 more major crops and
livestock commodities and by directing the final results toward measurable
impacts of alternative pricing policies on production, government revenues,
and exports. The final work is to be completed and sent to the Bank by
September 1985. To facilitate the continuation of dialogue on agricultural
development with the Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture will furnish to the
Bank at the end of each calendar year, beginning December 1985, information on
changes in agriculture and food industry policy which were either formulated
or carried out during that year, with special attention to export policy
measures concerning processed meat and cheese.
The Livestock Subsector
36.       The livestock subsector accounts for about half of the gross value
of output of the agricultural sector and about 61 of GDP. It also accounts
for about 12% of total exports which are virtually all sold for convertible
currency. The overall average annual rate of growth of the livestock
subsector during the 1975-84 period was about 3.51. The level of technology
used in livestock production in Hungary could be substantially improved in
certain areas. The subsector receives technical assistance from the
Government through its research stations in animal nutrition, design and use
of buildings and equipment, productivity of grasslands, dairy hygiene, and
artificial insemination. It also receives technical services from large
farms, which usually specialize in two or three activities such as corn,
wheat, livestock, carry out applied research, have extension agents, and sell



- 12 -
services to other farms. The producers' associations support the industry in
transferring technology from abroad and, to a lesser extent, in assisting with
export marketing.
37.       Hungary is a grain surplus country and supplies all of its own corn
needs and considerable quantities of sunflower meal; however, because of the
lack of high protein animal feedstuffs, it imports about 500,000 tons of
soybean meal annually. Corn is harvested at a high moisture level (28X) which
requires high energy costs for.drying. This situation has encouraged
commercial-scale experiments in the system of storing and handling high
moisture corn. Slaughterhouse by-products, such as blood and feathers, are
only being partially processed for feed on a commercial scale and cause a
serious pollution problem, as these waste materials are released into rivers
or in the environment, creating a need for improved waste processing
facilities. Another difficulty confronting the subsector is that most of the
facilities and equipment are outmoded and deteriorating, thereby causing
severe inefficiencies in production.
38.       While substantial shares of Hungary's meat production are exported
(37S of processed pork, 302 of carcass beef and 80Z of carcass mutton),
exports could be assisted by the upgrading of major slaughterhouses to conform
with standards set by the EEC and USDA. Lack of cooling and cold storage
facilities at these slaughterhouses results in lower yields and poorer meat
quality. In the dairy industry, the areas of major concern are in the poor
packaging and handling of fresh milk, which reduces its shelf life, and in the
efficient processing of milk into cream cheese for export.
39.       Other problems affecting the livestock sector include the need for
research to enhance the nutritional value of marginal grasslands for grazing
beef cows and sheep; yields are low and the tectnical package currently
available for pasture intensification is expensive and, in most cases, not
reliable. There is a need for establishing nutritional systems for livestock
which would allow a reduction in the grain feeding of cattle and other
ruminants. The average low quality of hay and corn silage requires quality
control and renumeration to suppliers according to quality. Livestock farmers
require cheaper and more cost-effective animal housing and more efficient use
of modern equipment to handle and store feed, products, and manure at the farm
level. The four existing insemination centers require rehabilitation and the
lack of good hygienic practice in handling dairy equipment is contributing to
a relatively high-bacteria milk. Training is required to make operations more
efficient in slaughterhouses and to manage large farms more effectively.
40.       Production of raw and processed meat is an important industry in
Hungary, particularly because of its export potential.  The industry, however,
is experiencing a decline in capital investment which is hindering
modernization and expansion of plants required to maintain and increase export
of processed meat. Largely as a result of increasing pig production, several
slaughterhouses are operating near capacity with three shifts per day for
seven days a week. All five of the largest slaughterhouses lack cooling and
cold storage facilities, so that carcasses dry out as they are transported
long distances from the slaughterhouse to rented cold storage facilities.



- 13 -
Export Performance
41.       Currently, Hungary exports about US$1.3 billion equivalent in live
animals and animal products, mostly to the USSR and Western Europe, with
growing markets in the Middle East and the United States. The most important
processed export commodities relevant to the project are pork sides, raw beef,
special pork cuts, canned meat and salami. Export volumes of animals and
animal products have grown at an average annual rate of 141 between 1976-83.
While Hungarian meat exports do not comprise more than 10  of the world export
market for any one commodity, the growth rate of Hungarian products has been
more than double that of total world meat exports during that period. Hungary
is continuing to make progress in the export of cheese to the Middle East,
Western Europe, and the United States by filling niches in the existing market
with high-quality products at competitive prices. During the period 1976-84,
total cheese exports increased by 3.7 times and current exports were almost
11,000 mt in 1984; over the same period, white cream cheese increased about 5
times and exports reached 5,500 mt.
42.       The carcass meat market has come under increased competition,
particularly as the EEC has expanded domestic production of table beef
formerly imported from southern South America. Hungary has established a
market share on several international markets but needs to intensify its
search for new markets and, at the same time, maintain and expand its existing
markets. The country needs to carry out further market research to identify
in detail new market opportunities and new product lines as well as to design
a short-term and medium-term strategy to develop new markets. New investment
will be required to undertake those activities which are essential to placing
an increasing amount of processed meat and cheese on world markets.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
43.       The proposed project is the second to be financed by the Bank in the
agriculture sector in Hungary. The Grain Storage and Mechanization Project
(Ln. 2316-HU) was the first which was approved in FY83, the implementation of
which is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank's role in the agricultural
sector is to assist the Government in its pursuit of structural adjustments
and technology improvements, a principal aim of which is to increase
convertible foreign exchange earnings or savings. In agriculture there is
scope for making significant contributions to these objectives both through
technology upgrading and through efficiency improvements in resource
allocation and use. The chief constraints on the increase of livestock
production for export are the limited land base in the country together with
inadequate pasture development and management, the lack of sufficient animal
protein and the difficulty in finding export markets. Additionally, the
livestock subsector suffers from the absence of an integrated approach to its
development which has been constrained by the lack of sufficient attention to
its capacities to provide essential inputs and slaughter and processing
facilities. As a result of Bank involvement in project design, the proposed
project would deal with the total production process from pasture improvement
to export marketing of livestock products, and for the first time would
emphasize an integratsd approach to improve the productivity of livestock
production in Hungary.



- 14 -
44.       The project would include technical assistance which would emphasize
training, improved financial performance of beneficiary enterprises, and use
of Bank methodology in economic evaluation of subprojects. There is also a
marketing component for which technical services from abroad would be provided
to assist in strengthening both Hungary's market research capability and its
livestock export marketing services into a more dynamic and aggressive
system. The project, therefore, fits well with the Bank's strategy of
assistance to Hungary, by improving the efficiency of resource use in the
livestock subsector; by improving the balance of payments through export
generation for livestock products and import reduction of animal feed; by
upgrading the production process through the introduction of new technology
for feed mills, livestock farms, slaughterhouses, dairy processing plants, and
animal by-products processing plants; and by improving the management of
export marketing. In the absence of Bank involvement, the development of the
livestock subsector in Hungary would most likely not have taken this
integrated approach which is expected to improve the competitiveness of
Hungarian livestock exports through a decreased unit cost of production and an
improved quality of final product.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
45.       The project was identified in July 1983 and prepared by the Ministry
of Agriculture and the National Bank of Hungary. A preparation mission
visited Hungary in March 1984 followed by appraisal in June 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1985. The Hungarian
delegation was led by Dr. Gabor Magyar, Deputy Minister for Agriculture and
Food Industry, and included representatives from the National Bank of
Hungary. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Integrated Livestock
Industry Project," (No. 5343-HU) dated February 12, 1985, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are
listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III, and a map (IBRD
18681) of the project locations is attached.
Project Description
46.       The main objective of the project is to expand the export of
livestock and animal products, particularly to convertible currency areas, by
providing a package of investments and technical services which would increase
the competitiveness of the livestock subsector. This is proposed to be
achieved by channeling project investments into activities aimed at: (a)
increasing factor productivity through the development of more efficient
farming units, the purchase of modern machinery and equipment, and the
introduction of improved technologies on the farms and in agroindustries which
process meat, milk and animal by-products; (b) reducing unit production costs
through labor-saving technologies, modern equipment and more efficient
processes; (c) upgrading the quality of meat products by improving the
hygienic conditions in the meat processing plants, rehabilitating outmoded
facilities, expanding their cold storage facilities, and improving their
packaging and handling equipment; and (d) improving the yields of livestock
production in the country through better pasture and fodder utilization and
more efficient conversion of feed into animal products.



- 15 -
47.       The project consists of the following components:
(a)   Animal feed and livestock input supply which would include:  (i) a
pre-mix feed plant; (ii) 58 feedmills for rehabilitation and expansion; (iii)
an animal blood processing unit; (iv) a feather processing unit; (v) an animal
enzyme and antibiotic plant; (vi) a meat pulp feeding unit; and (vii) a plant
for manufacturing replacement liners for milking machines.
(b) On-farm production which would include: (i) reconstruction and
expansion of 32 pig farms; (ii) expansion of 56 farms for feeder cattle and
beef fattening; (iii) expansion of 21 sheep farms; and (iv) modernization of
12 dairy farms.
(c) Agroindustrial processing which would include: (i) modernization of
7 slaughterhouses; (ii) a credit line for equipment replacement in other
slaughterhouses; and (iii) 9 new milk processing units.
(d) Research and training which would include: (i) research in pig,
dairy, and sheep production and grassland improvement; and (ii) study programs
for research workers and training activities for farm and slaughterhouse
managers and technicians.
(e) Export marketing services which would include: (i) a world market
study to identify new markets in specific countries for the export of project
commodities; and (ii) marketing services to assist market entry and the
expansion of market share through contact and sales promotion.
48.       Most of these investments are site-specific on farms or in
agroindustrial enterprises. Some of the animal feed mills under the project
are owned by the Grain Trust while others are owned by state farms and
cooperatives; the blood and feather processing units would come under the
ownership of the National Rendering Authority. The animal enzyme and
antibiotic plant is owned by the Phylaxia Company, a Hungarian enterprise
specializing in the production of these items. The meat pulp feeding system
for pigs, as well as the proposed plant for manufacturing replacement liners
for milking machines, is owned by the Dairy and Pig Service Cooperative.
Production of cattle, pigs and sheep will be on state farms and cooperatives.
The slaughterhouses and dairy processing plants are owned by individual firms
or are part of agricultural enterprises. All of these farms and
agroindustries are established enterprises which have experience in livestock
production or processing.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost including physical and price contingencies,
and duties and taxes, is estimated at $325 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange cost is estimated at $148 million or 46Z of the total project cost.
Physical contingencies were estimated at 9Z of the base cost and price
contingencies were calculated assuming annual price escalation rates of 8% in
1985-86, 7Z in 1987-88, and 6.5Z in 1989 for local costs and 8Z in 1985, 9Z in
1986-88, and 7.5Z in 1989 for foreign exchange costs.



- 16 -
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $80 million would provide about 252 of the
total project cost, and about 54Z of the estimated total foreign exchange
component. The balance of the funds needed would be provided by NBH (about
A168.4 million, or 52%) and the sub-borrowers (about $76.8 million, or 232).
Although the financing plan is complete, the Hungarian authorities have
indicated interest in raising cofinancing for the proposed project in
conjunction with both a Fine Chemicals Project and a Transport Project, which
are also being proposed for Bank financing. Depending on market c6nditions,
cofinancing using the B loan instruments will be pursued for an amount of
about $420 million for all three projects, and, once available, will
substitute for part of the funds provided from domestic sources.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On-lending Arrangements
51.       NBR, the borrower of the proposed loan, would on-lend about $79.5
million to cooperatives, state farms, enterprises and autonomous research
agencies. The demand for subloans has been reviewed by the Bank with NBH on
the basis of preliminary subloan applications. NBH has agreed that .he
interest rate on these subloans would be at least equal to the Bank rate plus
a 302 mark-up to cover its costs and the foreign exchange risk (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 2(b)). NBH, however, intends to maintain the
interest rate on subloans at the same level as the prevailing domestic
interest rate of 14Z per annum. This would result in a margin of about 52 to
be earned by NBH on the Bank loan and would allow it to cover its cost of
administering the subloans and also assume the foreign exhange and interest
risks on the Bank loan. Loans from NBH's own sources to these beneficiaries
will be at similar rates. These rates are well above the projected domestic
inflation rates of 8% in 1985-86, 72 in 1987-88 and 6.5% in 1989.  The
repayment terms of the subloans would cover a maximum period of 12 years
including a maximum of three years of grace. Funds received from
sub-borrowers by NBH and not yet due on the Bank loan would be utilized by NBH
to finance capital investment for agricultural development (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02 (b)). Agreement was reached during negotiations that sub-
borrowers would contribute a minimum of 20Z of subproject cost from internally
generated funds and that eligible subprojects would have financial rates of
return of at least 127 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, paras. 3(a)(i) and
3(b)(ii)). Project beneficiaries would be required to maintain at all times
on all operations a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5:1, a
debt-equity ratio of not more than 60:40, and a current ratio of not less than
2:1 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 3(a)(ii)). About $0.5 million would be
passed on to the Government (Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry for the
training of research staff) which would be responsible for servicing this
portion of the Bank loan.
Project Implementation
52.       The NBH would have primary responsibility for the financial aspects
of the project and its branch offices would assist applicants to prepare
subloan requests and ensure that the selection of project beneficiaries would
be done on the basis of sub-project feasibility studies, models, and credit
guidelines. MEM would concentrate on problems which may arise during project
execution and help participating farms and agroindustrial firms facilitate
communications with NBH and other Government agencies. MEM staff would
directly carry out the agricultural research and training component of the



- 17 -
project. They would also supervise the work of the Research Institute of
Agricultural Economics which would present to the Bank by December 31, 1986 a
study to determine the causes of inefficiencies in the livestock and relevant
agroindustry subsectors and to make recommendations on policies and
technological changes required to increase efficiencies at the farm and
enterprise level (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
53.       AGROBER, an engineering and economi7c consulting firm, would supply
the technical support staff for evaluation of subloan applications, when
necessary. Its main tasks would be to evaluate technical and economic
viability of sub-projects, prepare complete development plans including the
necessary engineering work for rehabilitatiob and expansion of large farms and
agroindustrial firms, supervise the construction and installation of
machinery, prepare a financial cash flow and economic analysis of
sub-projects, prepare technical specifications of bidding documents for
international tenders when requested by the designated foreign trade
enterprise, and prepare periodic reports on project progress and maintain a
project monitoring system. Where necessary, international consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be employed to assist in the design, engineering,
supervision of equipment installation, and training with respect to the
slaughterhouse component. AGROBER would be hired by the farms and
agroindustrial firms to prepare the engineering work and the full development
plans of the enterprises, and by foreign trade enterprises for preparation of
international bidding documents. Other activities carried out by AGROBER in
the implementation of the project, such as report preparation, project
monitoring, bid evaluation, review of subloan applications, and project
planning, would be as a consultant to NBH. Two foreign trade enterprises,
AGROTEX and KOMPLEX, charged with procurement of goods and services for
agricultural firms and for agroindustrial enterprises, respectively, would be
responsible for pack'aging equipment items for international tendering. Both
firms are experienced with the Bank's guidelines for procurement and have
prepared bidding documents under other Bank-financed projects. The project is
estimated to require up to 280 man-months of foreign consulting services.
54.       To monitor subloan selection procedures, samples of subloan
applications would be submitted to Bank supervision missions during project
implementation. In addition, NBH has agreed to submit to the Bank the first
subloan evaluation for each of the beef, dairy, pig and sheep farm
subprojects, for feedmill rehabilitation, and for modernization of the
Szekzard Meat Company and the Phylaxia Company, to be reviewed by the Bank
prior to subloan approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 3(a)(ii)).
Market Outlook
55.       Hungary has well-established markets for some Df the commodities to
be produced under the project and is expected to penetrate and, eventually, to
expand its share on new markets. Market strategy is being reviewed in an
international market study being carried out by GIRA of Switzerland for the
meat and dairy industry. This study was started in October 1984 and while
preliminary results have confirmed the market availability for Hungarian
exports of project products, the final study is scheduled to be completed at
the end of April 1985 and will include recommendations for penetration of new
markets. The project would also provide funds to make market contacts,
consumer surveys, advertising and sales promotions. Meat and cheese products



- 18 -
are expected to become increasingly important in Hungary's export trade due
to: (a) strong competitiveness in quality and relative prices; (b) well-
researched ideas on markets where import requirements are growing; and (c) a
program to establish a production and marketing policy which is expected to
result in the development of products for specific market niches.
Reporting and Auditing
56.       NBH would submit to the Bank a detailed semi-annual progress report
on project performance. NBH, assisted by MEM and AGROBER, would also prepare
a project completion report to be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after project closing date. NBH's accounts are audited by independent
auditors. This would be continued under the project and would be expanded to
include annual auditing of the project account and other related documents
submitted to the Bank in support of applications for reimbursement, with a
view to ascertaining whether these documents and the related internal control
procedures are sound. Sub-borrowers with investments exceeding $400,000 would
have their accounts audited within 4 months of the end of every fiscal year
and a short form audit report prepared, both in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Equipment, goods and services to be provided under the project would
be procured as follows:
(USS Million)
Project Iten              ICB       LCB     Other   Tbtal
Equipment                      93       97        -      190
(70) /a
Civil wrks                     -        66       29 /b   95
Technical Assistance           -         -       12       12
(8)
Livestock and Forage Establidsent  2 /c    26     -       28
(2) 
Total                 95       189       41      m5
(72)               (8)    (80)
/a Figres between brackets correspond to Bank financing.
/b 30% of civil warks would be by force account with no bidding required.
T_ mhe Bank ioan will only finance livestock iwxots.



- 19 -
58.       All equipment and services to be financed under the Bank loan would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. International competitive
bidding (ICB) will be used for the purchase of all equipment and goods
financed under the Bank loan except for proprietary equipment, such as
accessories to computer equipment and packages of small items of an equivalent
value of $200,000 or less which may be procured under international shopping
from quaLified suppliers. The aggregate amount of goods procured under such
exception to ICB procedures will not exceed in value the equivalent of $4
million.. Purebred breeding stock, estimated to cost about $2 million, would
be procured through limited international bidding, on the basis of evaluations
and comparisons of bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers from
three different countries. Production licenses, estimated to cost about $1
million, would be procured through direct contracting with the owners of such
licenses. Equipment, services and works not financed by the Bank will be
procured under prevailing local procedures which provide for efficient and
economic procurement. The Bank would carry out an ex-ante review of bidding
documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts limited to packages
above $3 million. These are estimated to comprise about 75% of the total
amount of contracts to be financed by the Bank.
59.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of
foreign expenditures for equipment and spare parts for slaughterhouses and
dairy processing facilities, production licenses, consultant services and
staff training and against 100Z of foreign expenditures and 100X of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for equipment and spare parts for feedmills,
meat pulp processing, antibiotics and enzymes production, blood and feather
rendering, milking machine liners, livestock production and research
facilities and livestock. In order to expedite disbursements, a revolving
fund of $6 million, equivalent to about four months' estimated average
disbursements, would be established. This amount would be maintained in a
special account with NBH (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 3).
Disbursements against statements of expenditures would also be permitted for
contracts up to $50,000 in value. Retroactive financing of up to $200,000 is
recommended to cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of the marketing
study referred to in paragraph 55.
Environmental Impact
60.       All pertinent subprojects would be designed with adequate safeguards
to ensure that they comply with pollution control guidelines set by the
National Water Authority for liquid waste and the National Authority for
Environmental Protection for air pollution and solid wastes. These guidelines
are acceptable to the Bank. Furthermore, environmental pollution will be
reduced through the processing into animal protein feeds of blood and feathers
currently discarded into rivers and the relocation of the antibiotic and
enzymes plant away from Budapest.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The economic rate of return for the entire project is 242.  At full
development the project is expected to generate incremental annual sales
revenues of about $140 million and pre-tax profits of about $25 million
benefitting about 170 beneficiaries. The annual contribution to the



- 20 -
Government budget in the form of income tax is estimated at $13 million. Net
foreign exchange earnings derived from farm production due to the project are
estimated at about $50 million annually, 8S of the existing revenues derived
from exports of commodities. Foreign exchange savings due to the project are
estimated at $8 million per annum. The project would create about 2,240 new
jobs, and reduce unit costs of production through the use of labor-saving
practices, modern machinery, and functionally designed buildings. The project
beneficiaries would be substantially strengthened both in their financial
position and in their technical level of production.
62.       Considerable savings would be realized in the use of energy and the
use bf agroindustrial waste materials. The project would also introduce new
technology both on the farms and in the agroindustries. The more outstanding
developments would be the wet feeding of pigs with high moisture grain mixed
with meat pulp or whey, the development of the marginal grasslands for
improved productivity of sheep and young stock, the financing of herringbone
milking parlors, the reorganization of cowyard facilities, modernization of
beef raising farms, and the feeding of agroindustrial by-products to beef
cattle. For the agroindustries component, international consultants would
design slaughterhouse investments to meet USDA and EEC specifications with
modern machinery and labor-saving technology, and new-style ultra-filtration
processing of milk into cheese would be introduced for the first time on a
commercial scale in the country.
63.       The project would also contribute to institution building.  The
Ministry of Foreign Trade has undertaken to identify target markets for the
incremental output produced under the project and to finance marketing
services which would strengthen the existing export marketing system for
processed meat and cheese. Training would be provided under the project for
managers of slaughterhouses in the organization of labor and in the use of
modern equipment; moreover, licenses and "know-how" would be purchased by
these agroindustries. In some cases, financial restructuring of enterprises
would occur which would enable beneficiaries to increase profits.
64.       One of the principal risks of the project is that the appraisal
assessment of international markets for all project production at renumerative
prices may be too optimistic. This risk has been minimized, however, by
making a conservative assessment of market opportunities and carrying out
special studies of the market for Hungarian products during the preparation
phase of the project. In addition, particular attention has been directed to
improving marketing techniques, including packaging.  If there is a
particularly long lag in penetrating the convertible currency markets, surplus
goods can be sold to the USSR and Eastern Bloc countries on barter terms or
with partial payments in convertible currency.  Another possible risk is the
effectiveness of the agricultural research program to arrive at useful
commercial packages of technology in marginal grassland improvement, dairy
hygiene, beef cattle development, and wet-feed for pigs. The plans seem
reasonable but there may be some delays in the transmission and application of
tha practical results of research.



- 21 -
PART V.  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hungarian People's
Republic and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided in Article
III, Section 4(iLi) of the ArticLes of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 27, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-22 -                                     Page 1 of 5 pages
NUtCAY                - 0CcA  IND.ICA6s DATA ms"ST
HUNGARY                            RPS)ICE  OuPS (EIlD AVRAS) 
MOST               (HST "CENT ESTIMATE)
aXECEIT       EAST UROPLAN 
ARA (TUD3N  Si. O)
TOTAL                              93.0        93.0       93.0
AGRICULTURAL                       71.4        68.        66.0
CSWIIF    CAPITA (3S)                   ..      490.0      2270.0                ..                 11071.0
MMmc aumsuTmu PER cain
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL LqUIVALNT)     1354.0      20o0.0     2863.0             4168.3                4996.9
IIuiATI;m  aD VITAL snSTICs
POPULATION.MID-TEAR (THOUSAN)    9984.0    10337.0    10705.6
URSA  POPULATION (S oF TOTAL)      40.1        47.9       55.0               62.4                  78.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            11.8
PoPULATION 11DIENTUN                                     1.2
POPULATION DENSILT
PER sq. U.                      107.3       111.1      115.1               42.1                 139.3
PER SQ. IN. AgIm. LAND          139.U       150.4      162.3              88.0                  519.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (t)
0-14 YRS                         25.3       20.6       21.6               24.5                   22.1
15-64 YRS                        65.6       67.6        65.5               65.5                  66.1
65 AND ABOVE                      9.0        11.5       13.1               10.0                  11.7
POPULATtON OUOWT IRATE (C)
TOTAL                             0.7         0.3        0.3                0.6                   0.6
URBAN                             .1.5        2.1        1.4                L.a                   1.3
CRtUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TH3US)      14.7        14.7       12.5               18.4                  13.8
CRUDE DLATH RATE (FMR T1OUS)       10.2        11.6       13.5               10.2                   9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.0         1.0        1.0                1.1                   0.9
FANILY PLNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUL (THOU5)           ..       149.0 Ic   711.8 7C
USERtS ( OF MARRIED WMEN)          ..        67.0 7i    74.0 7T*.*
ID0 JUND 1OR10101
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      63.0       91.0       147.0             107.1                  114.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREENTS)      122.e      I28.0      133.0              130.5                 132.3
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)         65.0        66.0       92.0              98.1                   96.5
OF 561ICR ANIMAL AND PULSE      36.0       39.0       46.0 1            53.6                  61.3
CWILD (ACES 1-4) OEATH RALE         4.0         2-3        1.0               0.6                    0.4
UPALTU
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEAlS)      67.9        69.5       71.0               69.9                  74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      48.0       36.0        20.0              20.7                   10-3
ACCESS TO SAFE IATER (%POP)
TOTAL                             22.7 L     36.6       6 64.9 f
URBAN                              ..        65.0I      U83 B                  
RURAL                              ..        10.6       42.8
ACCESS TO EX2RETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        27.2 A     53.3                 ..
URBAN                              ..        50.1 7jz   72.6                ..                     ..
RURAL                              *-         6.21      30.m7it
PoPULATION PER PHYSICIA           720.0       510.0      400.0              349.0                 553.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           330.0 lb   230.0       150.0              130.8                 166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL EED
TOTAL                            140.0      120.0      110.0               8S.6                  120.8
URBNU                            80.0 th   140.0       130.0 1.           109.0                  143.1
RURAL                                                   ..               ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..       20.5        21.6                ..                   17.8
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             3.1         3.0        2.8
URBAN                                         2.7        2.7
RURAL                                         3.2        3.0
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                             2.4         2.0        1.5
URBAN                      .       .-         1.9        1.5
RURAL                              ..         2.0        1.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            74.6        91.7       98.1
URBAN                              ..        96.6       99.1
RURAL                                       .87.4       96.9



ANNEX  I
-23-                                           Page 2 of 5 pages
NUNGAB!               - SOCIAL INDICATORI DATA RIIT
HUNGSAR                             CrE NcI C UPS (WISONTRD AVEIRAES) t
MOST               (NOST 1CINT ESTIMATS) lb
RECE~          EACT EUROPEAN             IU0SNTRIAL
6aLe    1970I-L   :,TSMA:           MORKET ICONSUIS    MARE ECONOStIES
DuiCATIO
ADJUSTED ECROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIYt  TOTAL                     101.0       97.0        99.0              104.5                  101.3
KALZ                   103.0       98.0        99.0               98.8                  103.0
FEKALE                 100.0       97.0       99.0                98.5                  102.7
SECONDARYt TOTAL                  23.0       32.0        42.0               88.2                   90.3
MALE                    21.0       26.0        33.0               67.1                  84.6
FEMALE                  24.0       38.0        51.0               72.3                  87.8
L               VOCATIONAL ( OF SECOND4RY)          30.4       47.3        54.9               32.4                   17.9
PUPIL-TEACHtR RATIO
PRtIMARY                          24.0       18.0        16.0               12.4                   20.2
SECONDARY                         11.0       10.0         8.0 /tk           14.9                   15.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (t)             96.9       98.0        98.9               99.5                   99.1
COuOuMOu
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          3.3       23.2       106.8               97.7                  367.2
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP       222.8      244.8       252.1              417.9                 1090.7
TV RECEIVERS/ITOUSAND POP           10.4      171.1       263.6              282.8                  451.0
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIMO
PER TROSHAND POPULATION          143.6      213.5       241.6 tl           359.5                  331.2
CINDIA ANNUAL ATENLDANCCPXITA       14.0        7.7         6.4               12.8                   3.6
TOTAL LABR FORCE (THOUS)          4777.0     5031.0      5214.0
FEIALE (PERCENT)                  36.4       42.0        42.7               47.5                   36.2
AGXICULTUhE (PERCENT)             36.7       25.2        20.5               17.3                    6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                34.3       4.4         42.9               43.7                   37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             47.8       48.7        48.7               51.0                   45.7
KALE                              63.1       58.2        57.6               56.6                   59.3
FDULLE                            33.7       39.7        40.3               46.0                   32.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.7        0.7        0.7                0.7                    0.7
IN-l DISEDSINYOI
PECENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED 8Y
iECI!ST 5S or HOUSEOLDS           12.111    11.5 /i    10.61.
EIGHEST 20S OF NOUSEHOLDS         34.3  f    33.7 7      32.3 I               ..                   43.1
LWVEST 20S OF RSEOLDS              9.4 '      9.9 7       0 10.8T             ..                    5.4
LOwES! 402 Of ROUSOLDS            23.6 7     24.8        26.:2               ..                    16.4
us TARGET  -
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URA                                 ...
RURAL                               ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCWM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
ESTIMATED POP. BELWN ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCaME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT  E S
la  The group average for each indicator are population-veighted arithmtic _ans. Coveraga of countrim among the
indicators depends on availability of data and ie not unifor .
/b  Unaee: otberulee noted, -ata for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970- betwen  1969 and
1971; and data for lb;ot Recent Ecsitte" between 1980 and 1982.
/c Uogun of reproductive age (3-49) uring oral contraceptives; Id 1966. unman of reproductive age Less than 45 years;
/. 1977; If Women of reproductive age loss thon 40 years; /g Percent of occupied dwellings; hb 1962; !I 1979;
[ *Prcens of Income receivd by the respectlve percent of the population. and data refer to)years 19U. 1972 and
1977; /k 1976.
JUNE. 1984



- 24 -                                                                ANNEX I
if Il_UjdaL_ 601.1                                                         a~ge  3 ~of 5  pages
9.6...  1461.1l1 69. 46.I. N.N draw  fr.. wri..           IIVfhl  3d446d 5. sSw  1hai61.911 NW6   Iiwit I   leLd .6. 9. -.d6.  6a. "IMF -,  -e 6. 1me.tatib.llty
=.Jo                                                                                                                                      O .21. _thi.  9...  .9 . iha iao   wIoiadlwed d.1i.Iilww  ad  606 e.66  sued hr d1666n..  .o.efl.   6. wlJJiwtmi   O.. .  i.  ja.  an. ..w1u.a....  4.3. *.
-..la   9*  .6    56d  6'l14.6. I."il.i .PIaN..1..r66. .dte.6  wais dirlt.--w  baw.i.ws.ee               s
it Welika.  09.s   er  (13 69.  aNI 6.6456   *-9o .6 t. ab.bJa  lIkitt9 NWd £23 a NIet., 209.. 1t1 e.-6h" hIgher  -w.ro   ss lb-~ 69. lie., a." If .  IN.
-.Jw   a.., 4..iI *60la.  066 IIFa ....  *rw. .9..  664i. 611w   19-`t Cr.  9                          li.l.    ...    .w.  9*9.t.tsI..
.I1lle .    6.6. qwlakna .  gr   I. dde  6. icefa le.9   wiwlwtla  -&m1ij.d -rlIhlt  wo..9.  -.aa  1-Ilt.. di wham  -wIF  a- .eja1.169i 2. epal, ...
am   9a4.    11. e  6.  atl.6a9.  56600lb.                               lb110I   .www  06. 1S6I.-Se. dpad. .699. -a..16..iiwY .6d.        k a6    a19o., a.owliww.w9 h
wakimladl Isllwb  w             .6.   S   .d.awI t I. Iw.I... 19.- 9.9rq.4 I. 6  wwi7 ..1  .6 l-tpw.wrIs  6. wI..I  M6-tS .   al I .a                     *l 6%. atmon  wad
A .S  6406 del..                                              f...a96sy 149 9.v.69.P.r.as-itp        I"sw  41.6414" hr lbiflr .1 prtaa*.6q
- 6.6 law. .9 64969.6 . lad lw.6wfl96 lv~~~~~~~ i.9.wwnlip      IMw     Wl. .      _4... eea, m.w.I= ww.6911. p91.16.1   fliSd
iiiidi..p-i.. -ft.  .. ad      .b hIlahs6.9 .11 695   I6. Willbti 69.631.                wa.196 .w.6.*1w
a   Na_   bab               .-Slat. 1. P. It.  W  MI_~l.w.pal-I              .    9.  t.plal  .4
~UUT~W5~  wa.w..d. .~mme.e a. WrI  IkN  Al..- 41101 6-43  aad                                                    0-llae.  9169.tPls.l. ar  .66.tI.91 a  p16*iialy .91a61
ION6. 6930. adIS   Sde..                                                                         hwIw.la.phy.l,g.la.Ulalw                      M-wp.tiawa "Itl..lp.l  1.-R1.11.
6030. ..d  1006 daw.                                                               MWh2J.L4-dd  pf    -..._INftNkmkaShaLf:  M.7.  hv  :-   ""l.l..   ki.- ill.afell
6l  I.  - I  . a  .1 Jolt I  6196?, 19161. ..J 6J6    Jb   b.
4169.tla    lie  6o.  wE.r.r.    6~ w99al -6wpw..14il9.46 4l..                     .sd L=.1  w..  -I..  £ bI.96.  I6 ll*at  W6  - my '40  W0l d I 6
Ib.. Iww.lltll.  I96A. 1iI35   k IS  40  dl.t.6.    hawhed 9.9   ll.1.I"96w
Aw.9-  I6e.&9                                                     -imp, -    .w-  9..sLn2~!lird:  .1.9,
C., L6 Mpn.Le..1 p9.11---... ate  AI  -  I60                        i  wln99=    t.1.t..  w  9911996 aul   l
IS14wd 19.19  -69i11  ad 1..t6itiwli .    wplfl.bltl et Ii  36R .                                                       l    at6at6 llttwPw   lId
rat..  Psjatiw   pwt.9.tat.69.119 91.6t.m.rl. siIt..                ..arpl.d991
l.w...S.o66  wee.       a W  t hinlt l.-tw.lt.j 1 wiha.wyw. M,              ~         ~        1t6!zu..c.   .ll..I-6qIIAI   w   11
..pit.Iw -..  t1... wd twe1. Lita..pa.a   shIlw   16 91.I                                    6wut..~1ijiwl   ln cg 'P. 16.6w'  q'V;.a91 1 .  9                     .llI,
V-.9. 19. pelsIe.f.le  6-rLIty9 t.i.ai.. h..w  thre  l..w                                    .9 i.*.l. -tb-. I1    .. -a      Ii.    wpal3.
plkatil9  petaaw.. N retiv  -m519  wit. . wwlliad .9i thawr.sl
Rflm19n313m      6w@ls-..vle   .9.  ad- -.w9-d-p.ll a          .119                WAI.39z.~71~*i~r9J96       9.   .4.16  1    wl
twe.hn.ii.is. IIIt wd Is  poltl  thIS. f wal -L-wpttt19 666II.9                          wsle   416wl  6lePi.yl.6e    c.ae   i9..t
-4-t 9496. )9. 13.16.9161  9N.Ia1111. Ilw. wgt        e. 161.-1-1* -9.                   6..ew  p"ap6?   C- haI..         .6.;.69  wtFa. wike:      lOw.-  
hail  J.6 6 . pt14aata  le.. t.e "Wri.lt..     19.   n.tle = - 9.  "w   tstaw-..I w                       lk. ..I- tel   ew.d9.. -  Imwu,             t.w.1  ..wda-_
2040. ad 19    . 91  ITh da t-           iI?i  .. 66-9695   113  9. ,a  I.a.6.                 aal-.w-  pIw,w19. -  I.Ie. 6.wtr.tw 1apwi.L.d 996.66  1p.6h           l6
P.1w1.6 -a   1w ..-a I-i 9. lw Mw, 1.   a..6wott   .rwi.                                        p.6witrl  .atwa   9.6a.                      .16llwttatn1
1w, tWa"  wl"tr19 -e 91p9t. t-IanIi,        ha. r9Li- d..lt.   -19.                              P-6.69.964
116.61   11..,ppIll   I6.9t9Ilw ata-    .gn e.  N-I,.9111                                                        d.1lM sr.   9. .  *wtned    p..
leld  76 wa   MeM-t9 IrNic- rtkt.IS.aw.I-                                                                                            76  .11.6.I.t-11 P
666,i-yw.9 fanll 3.6999 ew.. hIsalI  6663  F atII..L .t                            ewr.wwwd.g19.1.
9ttl9 6   .   OI.1.a   a       .atd. 9-                 l   rrLrl61 "It',                       M .-w,  O-  wl           -Iia.I  pw.14m?. 0.4 IeI  pt a    d Jwetb.
F-pwH.* a.twfwl(1919   flhlsee  66-l v                     Ism) .6  3-_l. II                      ..... .Al   [-L.
It1e.), IS. .r.1?w JIM.        wad*t   6peewwawedp                                          fwww` warr I19 .(9   " thwa       L.,.a6w - eha.C.q.r a. I wra.          e
ftl, tw6iO.639   d  .2   cl                                                                     a9  6.14  a.  h             ptgtp999.- wetSt  ai...6   ha...  a
flw.w9lf Cfl9h  *9.(9.91*II- ttal    6.1*6 99-.61    9..9   6.4*3Ii  aid- .           .96116  wtOe.,
919papulet_     tlew 1.9 650-.  iee-Iili = S669-7                                          .S1   _.9..19 9I... 'h-eI ..E      .aI.       SI- 63  u -dkI4 6.69     61991
PIIIIL.11- C~h be.                ae-al Itw.t  a..         ..t erha                   MI-dclt Ietr        .   .1.-16..-.   ..Ieage.
F.llI.i6al9adi4JNt-i4Wjw.aSd-f.l 6930-02                                                       9tw6oz991.9   wen.                  ISIsp-lypa  nit.-1..  .6 radi.
Cfwr 191h.t 96.:..S   -f..    6.  Iea99t9%4wwi                                                   6911we-II.6199; ata 9.-r...    v af .69509.at                rtl    laie
Mqala. pw   OML.9po-421 90. 661.  -SI6942                                                                                              L.9....r a-r..619-66.9.4 161 .66.9
09*d Scath I.e199t1..S -~  dt A.e.  I.9:  9.l. thaI. b.9.iwtt  aIse(..                                           9I...IS 1   t.epleiw)   79 t .6.    t .W-1t4.? S.9
7-  p1tIlsl  99 69I   .  d  96  4.9.." de.e  phl 999~ Lt-weI9.&..1.   .14..6.6d7   .6.
W. 9.e*tttw. 9.1  - 1.1141A.N.9.1i agtf  a -       nw     .6-. 1 a .1d-.              T.  9-1-191  ad,  6. pa   .1..  wgl1.al ta.1    .. we1.1919 1.
or6102.         _ma         I-w               -     -              ItM,1                        1.whlII19.9e    i.t1   f119l6   6.91.  a1.IV*6    .   619.             14-.r.
p. =9.6.1 -t6 =        17*Wf61. ewId. II                                                                    4.1.  9 per  1.c.lw 6-            a1.  6wM-.    dree-ta  Mtins 
-   .9 chtii-e..rewg  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~. e~~~. prnllclq  w.fl..o  hahesi-. aI-...J.                                    .1     .   I   O
p911619166 .67 96.1.1  ewlr.aa9oiew I. at?   r9 14 Ial.            1. I.eIf1.366 91w19
ma as  rmitew         -.w.whl,.: 6190  391  ad~ft -30  at..1k   19    p -                                                                                         -dLM.-
6.4. .9Pad991e.re. ar  ..J. 9166-3110 .-   111  999'pt.9.i Ira.91 .--"9.?  6. .-Wft9.   -99511.  t*l  ..                                                    ,6
enODAMbur..isiad  =9.c.   ie..    i?    dc6el  6re9  6..3swf   .. ct6  - 1-ha91l 6"'   St.l.aI6s.. .ew tr.                                                                  S
act 9.6a tw  *t .Iw13.90feal reetl.  of 9    M..6-,, 1J..ltlt.tt                                                       a.6 J.     9aatla-   .9   q .al Let. 9.99.  694.  4
4.9..                                                                                  t.rt- II.  MN"   w.I.  eIll.66. 6.- t.tn..t    ...I w.1-   ad; fwew. 1 Pard gill eI.. 
I= .twta( .9e16. .ns                ibrsl.  Weti -  .gtdP..4g                             aePliW. 11: La    I,t4   , te al  Ie,   aId  Iw-.. --ha tea.
day.  £."da2.l. ..ppl1t.w  -W.r1- 4dNInetl  pr.`.9tL.  wIn. 3-.                                69*9. V61     I J"Id464*.....       .,.-  haS-   -  6SF'.  -t.911c9.1(  -so.
-w.n.a d eheo- Ia atwt.  ft1  -psw -Iw. wtIw. ..l..Z  ld. .1.46-  . 9193.919 aIwl                                    F6*99.   9 I rMI'lsl  wa - 6ItIb c s-   I r.ad1-t-.  A
-N111  d   I.31 ftIwlit-,to    ..lrW    t- wyratw... Shet-   U6Se1.                     i9iijrifliii..  91. 44619
*9t  N-hadLwI; 61941  6430 lad (-   6  datWe.iI-4    .                               6-60 W g 6611I6Tat196p11                                      1              1J
'6*1t-919.  9.5d   p9it   4w9-.4 .61ba1  t   a         .94.*0.   6..                          JIft;,I                 tteflf  f 1999916   999.93  It-").st   Spn    099~
qot.9      ialet aZIcew*.a. MMIsatli.   Nd .19 39  twatd. F..-   f-9a   -a                          l.
.lwnt   1  9£1;6I   1.911 9996  9.9 dae. ad 1w'19a   1 wel.I a
pals. fw~l.t. .6   1~* 69990.6 .9. "J 9..16ea.cl. -   9e                        9409-9Wt 7b.41*-99 *b103911d b  r.%- 
..49. 19  le    -le   hla.     9   rani efIt39.11 -d42  £96a                             t.  w616e9  .t-11a-.w  an       P-r .pfsl.i   _.   W F- .6 9.11      lol a.
.I9 .6.1   9911.lwfg 9-I  tl   .9.I..4   99.4h   t  Ia  tr,wae9   4t91.   6%rt.6rta913
PIt 1.19  twottl ..`wi. la. esla  ad. 1*.     Pw.w  an   s91                                    *.It P1.1 4mN;rT                 e699I sI.             .11tltI   tI
41.-.    1:-L-a M e19,  2  P                                                                          11-                                              ..k
%OlId   a W. -- 64   bet te   (.9t.e.d  -1at..?I b.1h  p.  Ihwa   It                           .1.91     la.116    "` Ps ttoI s1a   14   9c.Ia     91    Stn
my  1.96-119..t_ cled;   lU1-1   1611  IIS5 9d10d ..   aw4129.                              9.911" 91.15949711.=1   .wIId  f  w9                           99.pe
s..atfl. da dals.  I.. 15. ttl.: ilC.  lic.t.  366  .....e.  Ima N``I                        _ l,  69          69.19..6 ..3  I .t1i.w   99 1 . 9*5
sal.                                                                                 9.9~~~~p ,- 01~i IM-    12  1.61 'I-,L,l. 9.3.. 49.16*9  P...n    Ins ldwt (s.s5    -. b9
-Wl tsa.66t I     II U  t...)-an    thf  1pw   116    ..6I                                      .149-19.6 -   1-t..w 7 a..3ws.    t1. -Ad r Ifal  9   t   9.I3t.
a1 hItta 6190. 6410 ad 6402 6....
I.e..  1091Nf 99 19. 1.6 tIneS) -A-.3 *119. .91..61  mdI.t
1..9 Ne, pw1%a 1.  et   90. 6979 ad i"I dew.
aea.e 14.)Ift-an -* sIN 9I .. P--1911  laral. 9.959... Id                                                                                        J.-. It"
Ea..Is9 .61 ,t.  r...               . a.....wl  6        11. th    9 . h...9
ct  99. hia.6.9h3  6.-bha.  t        -Ipwd atwl.lb...tw1.  en.
99. 417 16 fetmrg III. 9d.91p. wl.  ..
M-Irm.9.   61 n.4sta.    s'ls   d   ..3  lw v          r_ 1.99.1  kse-e I_I
1.W 911911    d d19.w. Ilt.  .919-   t                     If.6l .2h..lry
ISewtw. %r a1 419-9.*    W7 s                .91.    r.  pit prlw,I6 IS
eaelt_  LN-lwaan-



- 25 -                                              wa spa
am=DOWA
can=  PN==  16                                                _LM  xM W =mm (2, cacc pie.)
UsS I f.           2                   1970-75        197540            196 1
Gat  *tic                         19.0           10M.0                  6.2              3.2              2.1             2.4
Grow Doetic Tutit                  4.7            24.7                  6.9              2.2            -4.2             -2.9
;au D mtic Sm                      5.4            2.4                  10.5              5.7              3.8             6.3
u.1   1.1mm                        0.7             3.7
bpOu of Gorl, Ws                   7.9            41.6                  9.6              6.9              5.2             6.8
1Itu of G, 16                      7.2            37.9                  7.5             3.9             -0.5              0.9
r
Ouavzw L  rm MD
am  Valn hAl4C..A. ,  W
it Bin.     KUSS DIn.      ___                                    2               W                 S
ftdcaltus              7              3.3         17.6              1.072               21.7          3,071.0            80.9
hnatxy (i*l. coet.) 400             7.8          41.5              1.96       l       35.6           4.0m.0            107.
Smyice                293            5.7          30.3              1.960              39.7           2.96.0             76.4
°uioratUl  Il         1>              2.0         10.6               _
talaU ~    ffBUJ966              15.         I0.0              4.960              10.0          3.6.0 /2           1IO.0 2
-. -
(Pf t n)    _________
W         1911           1900-.
o;ec   Fu               571.0      59.0           59.1
QOt       tarit m       497.9      51.5           52.4
OaM   gzpit              73.1       7.6            6.7
Qrpi1    _D W            58.1       6.0            6.7
BEaKd AmiatuM  (no) 
mm, anad  mT
1978             1979             190               1981             1912             1963
CBiLUaon Va1nt atutadia* ad priod)
)bW ad Qsi Iu                                   255.4            301.9             362.1             365.1            387.6          405.2
k  Czdit to PRblic Sect                        422.0            460.0             496.3             537.1            563A           579.9
Bmk Crdit to Privet. SecCor                      81.6             91.4             107.2             119.9            133.6          154.6
(hirmwqea or iidm trnab,
I.yadd Qii NIW  mof a                            45.4             45.4              47A               46.8             45.7           45.2
Grul Price T         (1975 - I0                  14.1            124.2             135.6             141.             151.5           163.3
c rP rice oU:                                     4.6              8.9               9.1               4.6              6.9            4.5
USk clit to Public Sector                        16.5              9.0               7.9               8.2              4.9            2.9
1ik endit to Privata Secor                       t4.3             12.0              17.3              11.8             11.4           15.7
/I  GUb   dtim ad vabamim diflEea ihdch are mc allocated b            aid sd  b couiratble fluctuation. flm  it d   a duiscrtwin inctoduce
into du inteqretaim  of dato a  tncural dw Ln tm econmy.
/2 b1sadizg AIocetor.
ot applical 
..ibt Mailb.. leFd                                                                                                            0, 1965
14W



AMt t
-  26  -                                                    P     >-    5 pope
T  RsM  MD CAFML K
LMAIZ Or PUfl1
MWC_M       a5=  UIIW   19W943)        Tnsin              Trade in
t98t      192       19X       19                                             "too*           No,   la
TRITHOW tar         -                                              _S !n.  t               _.  t     )
ba of               8,8!.5.0   9,C03.0    8,912.8   8,67.0   rDt,. alelmtic   U                              26.3      0.7    42S.4  1 .9
ram  of                           . 8,5.0   8,575.0    68455.8   7,912.0  R_  umria1, ,'-firuA
rS-fas as  (Nt)                   U6.8    107.0        220.2       6.0     psostu. sin, PKu "73.1    23.2   1.653.3    ii.5
raum  Gp (defi i*-)                L.        slByi ,;           Vu d,   oc
1 _        U f ' (M             -.1,12D2     962.0     -W.5   -745.0        =a        _        nr Bm6                   4      655S      1126
admitta                      ..        ..         ..       ..    rAicntl l  _d.                     556.9    14.8   1.4.&7       30.0
Dam Pot   k u               ,     ,     , ,               .        .. Teul                                 ,765.4    107.0  1.S16.8      M0.0
lbs Tiawfuu                         47.2      63.0       56.3  M     .0
a1m1se an Ou!uccunct             .-p         WT          7C       2a.o0    M    . 1 .    .mR   30, MY
KU 8In
1_hol-ad 1aqr1s cla tu1                           IbbLic dkt, incl.  wumd                                                                7.8
AMI_U t                         -U0       -LID       -70.0   -111.0    (ot  IdLh. e  mwitble ce!u!y)                                 (6.8)
Liabiliau                      1.119       367       497.4     YA.0   lEr_           p!imdak
Intl.            1          (2.MC5)   (1I2.7)  l,.769.2)   (   )         Total aaStmdlat ad di.-rn                                 7.8
CAtla.                       (40)    (4()   (-1,271A )
Smc-iu Ca,itu1M  saw= 38310 p- t1i/4
AmS   /1                        -67       -33       -276.7   -1W.0                                                                     :
ULi&izm  /2                     -622      -96        650.3   -32
Rblic ddec, iecl. e _l                                       25.0
a   is  "A.i. /3                    ..       235        352       436        lVgur_ad privAs debt
I1m   in  R         (-     )       616       m1      -1.231.7   -612             Tbae                                                  25.0
PA   w  MEN=                                                          tMDM  nO     in umG Lse) (.  uso
2as     11 4 (ad of)
US 1.00   51.9 MFi
Ft. 1.00 - 10.0195                                                                                                        mmM
O*uluii  IA dizbxud                                180.3
E9Tw (-.                                                              lKdidb                                               .6 
Ft. 1.00  M A82                                                       Outadi,  in l.  diud                               525.4
./1  omvmumw sums;  cutLy  t   f iE'it-
7H  Tibhbu arrors WAd .un
74 -'.i  AtL  debt            n        amodiu_d  to   u. to ta          f        ad 8ic. Mm dus hmvice rcia of ceiywsible cNuqny debt
co      u ao Oak ad b vum1 iln ci      bla ca my m_ 6L
IbC apaliable.
.. iUble.
FVbAq 20, 1905
t1Y~



-27 -                      ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statment of Bank Loans '
(As of September 30, 1984)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                             (less cancellations)
Number      Year        Borrower        Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU     1983        NBH k'        Grain Storage & Mech    130.4        70.3
2317-HU     1983        HPR ''        Energy Conservation      109.0      103.3
B2-HU       1983        NBH           Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation              30.0         -
B3-HU       1983        NBH           Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation               8.8 '
2397-HU     1984        NBH           Industrial-Export &
Restructuring            110.0      104.7
2398-HU     1984        OKGT d"      Oil and Gas Dev.           90.0       89.8
B8-HU       1985        NBH          (Industrial Export & )
(Restructuring        )    35.0         -
()
B9-HU       1985        NBH          (Petroleum            )    12.2 '       -
Total                                 525.4       368.1
of which has been paid               _
Total now held by Bank                 525.4
Total undisbursed                                 368.1
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ National Bank of Hungary.
c/ Hungarian People's Republic.
d/ National Oil and Gas Trust.
e/ US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen Loan of Y2.1 billion.
f/ US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen Loan of Y3 billion.



- 28 -                    ANNEX III
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Praiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare               10 months (July 1983
the project                                    to May 1984)
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project          Ministry of Agriculture
and National Bank of
Hungary
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank         March 1984
(d) Date of first mission to consider the
project                                        March 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission         June 1984
(f) Date of completion of negotiations              January 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                  June 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) To ensure that interest rates on subloans would be at least equal to
the Bank rate plus a 30X markup to cover its costs and the foreign
exchange risk (para. 51);
(b)  To use subloan repayments not yet due on the Bank loan to finance
capital investment for agricultural development (para. 51).
(c)  To ensure that subborrowers would contribute a minimum of 20Z of                 )
sub-project cost from internally generated funds (para. 51);
(d)  To ensure that subprojects would have financial rates of return of at
least 12X to qualify for subloans (para. 51); and
(e) To send to the Bank for review the first subloan evaluation for each
beef, dairy, pig and sheep farm development, for feedmill
rehabilitation and for modernization of the Szekzard Meat Company and
the Phylaxia Company prior to subloan approval (para. 54).
2.       The Guarantor is to present to the Bank by December 31, 1986 a study
on ways to improve efficiency in the livestock and agroindustry
subsectors (para. 52).



HUNGARY
APPRAISAL OF INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Elvatleons In Mnt s                    Enterprls and Raueh Sttlana                      - - Canaln
200 400                      jl Slauihtmrhoum                                   - -       Rivers
Above 400                              Ultra-High Tampeature Milk Plants                   Notional Capital
0oe so zo 0 o o 7 s   Ulir.Fhltfetion Pvocessing Plants  _    _   Memve (countyl CBori.
- - Mauve (county) Bo
KILOMETEIRS 0    10   0   30  40   S0  00   70  0oPhyxCompany                                                - -        International Bouw---
MILES 0       to      20      30       i0      50               BOSCOOP
0t        Blood and Father Renderln Plants
_aa..~ ' ,;;                Reearch Stations
Motorway
AUSTRIA           ¶.                                      ----  Main Roads
;   }  )-\  \    \,    @  @ |  ~~~Railroads0 t                                      Z2r
ro                                                                                                Vdc~~~ ~Ofm aovr&~wA.hp Sa
V..,w.         C                   -                     . . K0PoS9Or-v A 5 )¢   --    t--E} t \-} nKDmdrorn 
SzoIjateIy   ..     . (                                             SzeIesem             - 7        -,>9/  
YUGOSLAVIA~~~~~~szr~ /J                                               \ \        ^'
KUSRW~~~~ °-~~-   l0'                          Rs       Durifoidd
11| _s _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o_mho,o_ r                                         _                       ckunlv' 
"'-0
V_ 
I.4



IBRD 18681
2W                                                  11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ao~~ m,. _
-  L  L>/"-           ¢H. \h t                                   U. S. S. R.
-ICapitals                   I
~'l Boundirin             r
.~~~~bi..r
\! *   'Nyireg _
'\ Kskunml.§>S^ g vh, a
\        r.~p  *                                                            42 *  HUNGA_ P) Y/0'Mi2  Sre
N   ~ ROMANIA 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                                                           I.-
iKSnhrlos                dmzvr lrf                 r             o '22
J\  5  ^\   %    --   t  O>  >. POLAND {
14?                               ITALYU.S. S.TUR.E
2?                                                                            J DSvOevse-    borze~.<   ;fi  5  HUNGAPY z  -
.  _ R D OMANIA     98
\x'                              v-' ~~~~~~~YUGOSLAlVIA  .,i
\   ~  ~      ~      ~     -s  -^            ?  8~~~~~~~ULGARIAl
2D'      j                                 *   -          |~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE: -  TRE
DECEMBER 1984



