Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5-443-HUi
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC
INEEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
February 12, 1985
Europe. Middle East and Nortii Africa LRegion
Projects 3epartment
Agriculture IT Divisi.on
This docunent has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclased without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Forint (Ft)
Uc-1 = Ft 50
Ft ; = US$0.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGROBER        -      Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK        -      Agricultural Equipment Import Agency
AKI            -      Research Institute of Agricultural Economics
ATEV           -      National Rendering Authority
BOSCOOP        -      Dairy & Pig Service Cooperative
DT             -      Dairy Trust
EEC            -      European Economic Community
GT             -      Grain Trust
HUNGEXPO       -      Hungarian Export Sales Promotion Company
KOMPLEX        -      Agroindustrial Equipment Foreign Trading Company
KOPINT         -      Institute for Market Research
MT             -      Meat Trust
MEM            -      Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MFT            -      Ministry of Foreign Trade
NBH            -      National Bank of Hungary
NPO            -      National Planning Office
PHYLAXIA       -      Enzymes and Antibiotic Manufacturing Firm
RF             -      Revolving Fund
TERIMPEX       -      Meat Export Agency
USDA           -      United States Department of Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLTS REPUPLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



HUNGARY               FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
INTEGRATED Li'JESTOCK INDUSTRY PkOJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:         Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:            US$80 million equivalent
Te.-ms:             Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:              US$79.5 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to
cooperati-ves, state farms, enterprises and autonomous
research agencies for a maxim-m period of 12 years including
a maximumn of three years of grace at an interest rate at
least equal to the Bank rate plus a 30 mark-up which
includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
NBH.
Project
Description:       The proposed project seeks to improve production efficiency
in the livestock industry and tc increase convertible
foreign exchange earnings through the expansion of exports
of processed animal products. it would help strengthen the
livestock industry by rehabilitating and expanding existing
facilities which would provide inputs or directly produce
cattle, pigs and sheep and processed meat and cheese; it
would also provide funds for pasture and livestock research,
management training for large farms and slaughterhouses, and
export marketing services. The project would consist of
five investment components: (a) animal feed and livestock
input supply; (b) on-farm production; (c) agroindustrial
processing; (d) research and training; and (e) export
marketing services.
Project Benefits
and Risks:         The project is expected to generate incremental sales
revenue at full development of about US$140 million
equivalent and pretax profits of about US$25 million
equivalent per annum for about 170 beneficiaries, ranging
from farms to meat processing plants. The expected
incremental contribution to the Government budget in the
form of annual income tax is estimated at US$13 million
equivalent.  Net foreign exchange earnings and savings are
estimated at US$58 million equivalent per year. The project
is expected to create about 2,240 new jobs and strengthen
the beneficiaries, both in their financial position and in
their techniical level of production. Non-quantifiable
benefits of the project include institution building in the
areas of strengthening the export marketing system,
training, and reduction of environmental pollution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The major risks reflect the difficulty of penetrating new
markets or expanding the market share for the project's
export commodities and the possible lag effect of the
research program to find useful commercial packages of
technology in marginal grassland improvement, dairy hygiene,
beef cattle development, and wet-feeding of pigs. Measures
have, however, been designed into the project to minimize
these risks.
Estimated Costs:                                Local    Foreign       Total
…--    US $ Million…
Livestock Prod-action
Pigs                                       22.5       10.8        33.3
Beef                                       23.7        5.9        29.6
Dairy                                      11.5        6.7        18.2
Sheep                                       8.4        4.7        13.1
Agroindustry
Slaughterhouses                            38.7       46.2        84.9
Feedmills and Input Supply                 22.0       18.7        40.7
Dairy Processine- Plants                    3.0        9.9        12.9
Rendering PlaulLs                           2.4        2.0         4.4
Engineering, Research & Training               5.0        5.6        10.6
Export Marketing                               1.6        2.3         3.9
Base Cost                                    138.8      112.8       251.6
Physical Contingencies                        11.9       10.1        22.0
Price Contingencies                           26.4       25.2        51.6
Total Project Cost                           177.1 /I  148.1        325.2
/1 Includes $63 million of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                  Local    Foreign       Total
…--    US $ Million -
World Bank                                     -         80.0        80.0
Beneficiaries                                 76.8        -          76.8
,NBH                                         100.3       68.1       168.4
Total                                     177.1      148.1       325.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY              1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991
-      US $ Ymillion ------
Annual                9.5      22.0      22.9      16.0      8.1       1.5
Cumulative            9.5      31.5      54.4      70.4     78.5      80.0
Economic Rate of Return: 24 percent.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ............                                         I
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .1
A.  Role of Agriculture.                                       1
B.  Agricultural Performance.                                  4
C.  Agricultural Policy.                                       4
D.    Bank's Strategy of Agricultural Development              7
E.    Previous Bank Project in Agriculture.                    8
III.     LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY SECTOR ISSUES.                              8
A.  Animal Feed and Inputs.                                    9
B.  Livestock Production .10
C. Agroindustry .11
D.  Research and Training .12
E. Export Marketing .12
IV. THE PROJECT .13
A.  Concept and Objectives .13
B.  Project Description .14
C. Cost Estimates .19
D. Financing .20
E. Procurement .21
F. Disbursement .23
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .24
A.    Organization and Management .....................    24
B.  Technical Services .25
C.  Lending Terms and Conditions .26
D.    Accounts and Audits .............................    28
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .28
F.  Environmental Impact .29
VI.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES....    29
A.  Financial Analsis .29
B.    Production ................                             31
C. Markets .32
D. Prices .33



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
VII.     PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......................   34
A.   Benefits ........................................   34
B.   Economic Analysis ...............................   35
C.  Risks .............. .                                37
ViiI.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION  37
SUPPORTING TABLES:
Table 1:   Project Costs:  Project Components by Year
Table 2:   Project Costs:  Summary Accounts by Project Components
Table 3:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table 4:   Dairy Pricing Structure of Fresh Milk and Ultra-High
Temperature Milk
Table 5:   Financial and Economic Prices Used in Project Analysis
ANNEXES:
1.        Finanicial Analysis of Agroindustrial Sub-projects
2.        Export Markets for Specific Commodities Produced Urder the Project
3.        Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Background Files
CHARTS:
1.        IBRD 26312.  Project Organization and Flow of Funds
2.        IBRD 26800.  Project implementation Schedule
MAPS:
1.        IBRD 17061.  Agricultural Area, Sunlight and Precipitation
2.        IBRD l868;.  Tocat1on of Project Investment Components



- iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
IMPL:MENTATION VOLUME
ANNEX  1:   Onfarm Production Models
ANNEX  2:   Slauglhterhouse Rehabilitation and Modernization
ANNEX  3:   Dairy Processing
ANNEX  4:   Animal By-products Processing
ANNEX  5:   Phylaxia Vaccine Production Company
ANNEX  6:   Feedmill Industry
ANNEX  7:   Meat Pulp Feeding System
ANNEX  8:   Livestock Research and Training
ANNEX  9:   Technical Assistance to Slaughterhouses
ANNEX 10:   Export Marketing Services
ANNEX 11:   The Financial System
ANNEX 12:   Economic Analysis
ANNEX 13:   Export Markets
ANNEX 14:   Livestock Subsector
ANNEX 15:   Meat Processing Subsector
ANNEX 16:   Milk Processing Subsector



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of the Hungarian People's Republic has requested
assis.tance from the Bank in financing investment in its livestock industry.
The proposed project would support the objectives of the current (1981-85)
Five Year National Development Plan which aims at improving the foreign trade
balance through increase of exports to convertible currency markets and
increase of efficiency in the productive process. The project was identified
during a Bank mission in July 1983, and prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MEM) with assistance from the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
The Economic Development Institute of the Bank (EDI) was associated with
project preparation by organizing courses for MEM and NBH personnel in
financial and economic analysis of subprojects. The appraisal mission, which
visited Hungary in June/July 1984 consisted of Messrs. W. R. Ringlien, mission
leader and agricultural economist, F. Lucca, financial analyst, J. Hall,
livestock specialist (Bank), C. Cronberg, agroindustrial engineer, and
D. Baker, animal nutritionist, (Consultants).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Role of Agriculture
General
2.01     The agricultural sector, which includes livestock, is an important
branch of Hungary's economy and plays an important role in trade and
employment. In 1983 the agricultural sector provided 17% of Gross Value Added
in the economy, 32% of convertible currency exports, 15% of ruble exports, and
employment for 22% of the economically active population. The share of GNP
has remained stable at about 18% over the last ten years. In terms of
exports, the agricultural sector slightly increased its share of total trade
since 1976. The sector generally provides the country's food requirements
with surpluses for export and provides materials for a number of
agricultural-based processing industries.



-2-
Structure of Production
2.02     In terms of gross production, the agricultural sector is divided
about evenly between livestock and crops. In the livestock subsector, pigs
make up 36% of the gross value of animal production, beef and dairy cattle
make up 31%, poultry 25%, and sheep 3%; rabbits, bees and other small animals
account for the remaining 5%. In the crop subsector, cerea:.s and legumes
comprise 43% of the gross crop production, fruit, vegetables and grapes make
up 34%, industrial crops 12% and other crops 11%. There are about 6.6 million
cultivated hectares in the country with the best quality land largely
concentrated between the two rivers --Danube and Tisza-- which form the great
plains area (see Map No. 17061). About 130 large state farms and 1,320
cooperatives farm about 87% of the cultivated land and account for about 70%
of agricultural production. Most of the remaining 30% of the production comes
from small plots, i.e. up to sixth-tenths of one hectare, owned by the workers
on large farms and cooperatives, industrial workers and retired persons
residing in rural areas.
Institutions Supporting Agriculture
2.03     Virtually all agricultural support activities are carried out by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MEM), which is responsible for planning, policy
formulation, research, plant and animal protection and other general support
activities. However, agricultural and livestock extension services are
provided by specialized large farms (Production Systems) whose technical staff
carry out applied research and work as extension agents; they usually
specialize in two or three main activities e.g. corn, wheat, livestock, and
sell services to other farms. Large stock farms with technical expertise as
well as producers' association of animal breeders and raisers support farms
producing livestock in terms of applied research, extension, input supply and
veterinarian services. The National Planning Office (NPO) operates under the
authority of the Council of Ministers and undertakes the task of preparing the
Five Year Development Plans (FYP); the current FYP ends in December 1985. In
that exercise, the NPO sets the indicative targets for production and
estimates the necessary physical and financial means to achieve those
targets. It also directly controls the investment budget and, thereby,
determines the national investment plan and the scheduling of completion of
already initiated investment. It is involved in practically all aspects of
economic and social policy in the country. The National Board for Materials
and Prices makes recommendations for administrative pricing for all
agricultural products as well as materials and equipment used by the
agriculture sector.
2.04     The National Bank of Hungary and the State Development Bank (SDB) are
the main sources of investment and production loans to agriculture as well as
all other sectors. The banking system consists of a number of banks, confined
to their -.n specialized activity which is strictly controlled by tie NBH.
There are seven main financial institutions in the country in addition to the
NBH and the SDB. As the central bank, the NBH handles the foreign exchange
and gold reserves, plays a principal role in setting the exchange rate,
determines banking policies, and issues banknotes and coins; it is the main
banker for the State, state enterprises. banking institutions and



- 3 -
cooperatives. It also has responsibility for establishing and administering
the credit policy of the banking system. As a commercial bank, NBH accepts
deposits, and extends loans to Hungarian enterprises and cooperatives for
working capital and investment. It carries out payments, credit, and other
banking operations relating to foreign trade ard other external economic
relations, and administers exchange controls. The volume and direction of
credits to be granted by the banking system and the credit and interest rate
policies to be followed are determined by the credit policy guidelines which
are reviewed annually by NBH and the National Planning Office to reflect
changes in nmonetary policies and help facilitate the implementatioli of Lhe
Five Year Plan. The NBH headquarters is in Budapest and it operates
country-wide through 19 regional offices and 71 branches.
2.05     NBH's balance sheet and income statement indicate thiat the
institution is in good financial condition. Gross income and profit have
increased over 1979-83 by 45? and 26Z respectively. A sharp increasc in
profit took place between 1982 and 1983 due largely to an increase in interest
rates. Holdings of gold, foreign exchapge and Special Drawing Rights (SE'Rs)
also increased substantially during 1983. The main sources of NBH funds are
the mandatory deposits of banks and enterprises. In 1983 other important
sources of funds were IMF deposits, foreign loans and, in part, NBH's own
profit. The overall financial position of NBH is sound largely due: (a) to
its role as the central bank; (b) to iLs close review of sub-borrowers
finances by controlling borrowings and holding their accounts; and (c) to its
excellent credit recovery record.
2.06     The export promotion credit line, under which the majority of
subloans for the present project will fall, is the investmenit area of highest
priority for the Government. Under this credit line, NBH grants loans for
profitable foreign exchange earning investments by creditworthy enterprises.
In addition, export promotion investments must be capable of (a) increasing
export products; (b) generating positive net foreign exchange earnings to pay
back sub-project investment in less than four years from project inception;
and (c) yielding 9% return in constant terms on fixed assets and permanent
working capital. Applications for the export promotion credit line, which
began in 1977, have grown steadily to an aggregate total of 1,900 in 1983.
The field offices of the NBH are responsible for processing and approving
agricultural applications for export promotion credits for all other credit
lines up to Ft 30 million. The Agricultural Credit Departmenit in Lhe head
office may approve export promotion credits for up to Ft 80 million, althougl
in all cases a consent letter is also required from the Foreign Trade
Department which, in effect, coordinates and administers the credit line.
Investments above this limit are decided by the Bank's top management. Export
promotion credits now account for half the investment lending of the NBH and
are targeted to reach 60% of total bank investments over the current Five Year
Plan.  Of the Ft 54 billion which were disbursed during the 1976-1980 period.,
Ft 10.9 billion went to over i,sdn agricultural inive.tnmerits, or more Lhlaf 80%,
of all borrowers.  This investmenit Is estimated Lto h:ve gener;ated the
equivalent of Ft 25.0 billion iI; fore4gn exchal.ge.
2.07     Oth,er kev agencies inv.lved in the sector include AGROBE>. a national
engineering a-nd ConsflOtuh .r w.   branrh"s ;r-':'t-  th- countrYl.



- 4 -
autonomous agency under- the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture.  It is
hired by large farms atnd agroindustrial enterprises to give technical and
engineering advice as well as to prepare dCLailed investmezit plans; it also
underLakes building construction and equiipment installationi.  TERIMPEX is a
foreign trade enterprise exporting about uS$900 million of livestock and
products and importing about US$30 million ot processed animal products
annually.  Its objective is to make prof.ts in the sale of Hungarian goods on1
the world market.  It has been reasonably successful in the past and has
recently stopped working through agents and brokers in foreign countries and
is now selliig directly to wtolesalers anid importers.  ILs staff works jointly
with Lthe Meat Trust (para. 3.10) in exportL selling and contract signing; these
institutions can provide the sales networ-k reqtLired to export project
coimodiLies.  AGROTEFK imports virt-ually all farm machinery atnd equipment;
KOMPLEX imports agroiuldustrial equipnient; AGRIMEX exporLs cereals and
sunflower oil.
B.  Agricultural Performancte
2.08     Hungarian agriculture has performeXd iiell over the last fifteen years
with an average annual growth rate otf 2.9'.  During the 1970(-74 period growth
averaged 3.9% p.a. due Lo major investment support tfrom the central budget in
the form of investment subsidies and grants.  Corti and whe2at yields
subst;tntially increased during thlis period and capiLtzl-i:iten sive animal
production systems were set up. This investmetnt phase was also characterized
by production subsidies, highl taxation and detailed control of uses and
sources of [arm profits.  Farms wert hledvily capitalized due, in part, to
labor scarcity for routine, heavy jobs and land being taken out of agriculture
for urban, park atnd highway development.  This period was followed by more
modest growth until 1479, when macro-economic policv and agricultural policy
restricted investment 'or the purpose of inmprovinz tthe foreign trade account.
The reduction of imports was the most practical restult ot this policy and
imported items such as petroleum, animal protein and farni machinery became
scarce. The agricultural sector readjusted to the new set of policies by
emphasizing wheat and mtcat production for export without major new investments
in civil works and equipment.  Despite thc rapid depreciation of thle capital
stock and lack of r-placumenit investment, the sector has grown aL a rate of
3.5% over the last tfive years with disparities, largely due to climatic
factors, in tht rate for 1982 (7.4%), l183 (-2.8') and (preliminary) 1984
(5%).  This high growth in "h  face of low inveSt:uerzt levels is indicative of
a more efficient uSe )f .nsta.ied capacity in th.e agricultural sector.
C.  Agricu. tura' P.' cv
2.09     it has be>.ten a teaturf- of the rc4.2;:i: process i.T Hunigarv that refornis
in the agriculture se':t-'r h:,%e preceded thos   n the industriai sector; for
example, cv-erliment .s                      i:!ig tc deecnr.tr.j . -  s. :LLk ?ng :-or agricultural
producti'-o. st.:I i '    : 't .trsh:, rW.ts. 'n.;'rftr.. r!Orc . iheral Cri 'in
and eTzccur.tgt: 7'rlvat  >;:-:::: .irti.: t.    i .l I :-t_S o: ' '-:ritnt pol icv '.
agricul !ru is to  2c.roust : s-_sidi_  wh.   at t . 5rtj ' ':. r.;rease prices
paid to farmtrs  lose-- tu intternat. :a  pr:-es  n a  cLrdrinatsd manner withcut
causing a;i,o: d:sru* :ms C ;r!.es   noni.   The "0c-ir; ot econormi'-
i bher;s                                                           .        f ;.<<4,1  -*     -O~t- .n ,;t.. t
.4I-9- >   , s2   . . ,  . ,   .  .   ,t       , ,,*' '   ,,, !w 't(._ .   



implemented, is progressing well in the agricultural sector. The major policy
actions carried out over the recent 1983/84 period for exampLe were:
(a)  elimination of the subsidies on tractors and most tarm nmachinery;
(b)  reduc_ion in the subsidy oll fertilizers by abaut 15% in 1983 to bring
the level of subsidy down to about 30%;
(c)  elimination of the subsidies on plant chemicals;
(d)  increast- of consumner prices on meat products by 20-25%;
(e) elimination of the obligatory reserve fund of farms which influenced
investments of individual farms; and
(f)  reduction of the corporate profit tax from an average of 35X to 30%.
In addition to these significant policy raforms, Government is undertaking a
major reform in the management structure of the large farms and income taxes
for agricultural workers to eliminate current disincentives built into the tax
system. These reforms set in place by a decision of the Government earlier
in 1984 are economy-wide and have the following objectives: (a) to accelerate
growth; (b) to reward firms for increasing production by further liberalizing
central Government control of management and corporate finance; and (c) to
create greater interest on the part of managers and workers at the enterprise
level. In agriculture, management reform would primarily concern the
state-owned farms, which have recently been authorized to select their own
managers in the same way the agricultural cooperatives do. The state farm at
Komarom has already adopted the new system and other state farms are to be
phased into the system over the next three years. This action means more
independence of state-owned farms from central controi and greater reliance on
decision-making at the farm level. The safety net which Government now
maint,1ins under farms facing continued losses would gradually be removed and
these enterprises would become responsible for their own financial management.
2.10     The current wage reform is aiso economy-wide following on the
experimental application in the industrial sector in 1983. The control of
wages in the Hungarian system is the most important policy instrument used by
the central Government to maintain low inflation rates and low consumption
levels of the working population. The objective of the new wage reform is to
provide greater incentives for enterprises and farms to achieve labor
productivity increases.  The old svstem uses average wages based on a highly
progressive tax rate table to level out differences in overall wages which is
a major disincentive to increase labor productivity.  Mlanagers are permitted
to increase wages at about the same rate as inflation and any increase beyond
that would increase tax i4abil4t.es equal to several times the wage increase.
The new s.stem wouil  'ss  the margi:n.ml wage zs a basis for determining
taxation.  Farms woe d choese frcni T!ree A1ternatives mcthods in order to
calculate taxes on labor.   hey wouid be then recuired to remain with that
alternative for the next three vears. These three systems of taxation on
wages permit farm managers to pay differential wages to workers at the same
level based on in-rease ii: te :r D>i; C- v zi  v.  It  1s .1 -  _  . flt
developmen't .  .eberaiz.l;g wages t 2 '-e so;-or anrd  p*.  8vrii t greater
disparities of income among workers than cuarrer.tly exis.



- 6 -
2.11     Althlough the overall pricing system in Hungarv is geared toward
market oriented pricing of products, particularlv in the industrial sector,
roughlv 80% of agricultural prices are still centrally determined, and
Government interventions are the established practice for the remaining free
priced commodities to prevent wide fluctuations from centrally determined
levels. A fundamental objective of the Government for the agriculture sector
is to ensure adequate supplies to meet the expanding demand for foodstuffs by
domestic consumers at low prices in order to minimize increases in living
costs. In addition, surplus earnings have been extracted from agriculture to
finance other Government expenditures in a way which mav have created
disincentives to production. These have been the two traditional pedestals of
domest-c producer price policy. A third, efficiency, is now recognized by
planners and volicv makers as being critical for future growth in the sector.
Prices were established or. a simple cost plus basis without reference to
border prices. Relative profitability reflected the planners' and not the
markets' demand thus potentially inducing resource misallocation.
2.12     Aggregate subsidies from the central budget to the agricultural
sector have significantlv declined over the last five vears (para. 2.09).
From 1979 to 1983, subsidies declined bv some thirtv percent when calculated
in 1976 prices. Current estimated subsidies are about 20% of agricultural
GDP. Total subsidies to the agricultural sector include: investment subsidies
which accounted for about 14% of the total subsidies for the sector in the
1981-83 period; (b) production subsidies which accounted for about 59%
including the cross subsidization of farms bV those with highlv productive
land to those with less productive land; and (c) indirect subsidies which
accounted for about 27%.  Indirect subsidies were largely subsidies to foreign
trade enterprises which imported fertilizers, pesticides and agricultural
tractors and farm machinerv.  On the other hand, taxation of the agricultural
sector has not declined over the same period and this is causing a squeeze on
profits in the sector.  S-nce 1981, the transfer of resources in aggregate
subsidies and taxes rrom tHle agricultural sector to Government exceeds the
aggregate subsidies granted to the agricultural sector from  0overnment and
this situation is exoected to continue for the foreseeable future. This
condition is not unique to agriculture as other sect-ors also have felt the
effects of a tight fiscal Dolicy; recent -overnment policies are intended to
reduce the rate of growth of investment in an attempt to improve the current
foreign trade balance.  This policy initiative has met with success in terms
of an improved foreign trade balance.
2.13     Despite the tendencv zo reduce subsidies to the agricultural sector,
the dairv subsector still receives direct subsidies aimed at keeping consumer
prices down which will be about Ft 4.3 billion in 1985 an" indirect pavments
to corsumers channeled tnrough dairy processing plants which will be about Ft
5.3 billion in 1985.  3ank missions have discussed this issue with Hungarian
authorities pointing out the inefficiencies and the misallocation of resources
in the economy that could be caused by government intervention in prices.
Government is aware that these and otrer subsi-ies are having adverse effects
on its budget. As part of their pricing reform effort, Government, on Januarv
21, 1985 increased consuaer prices of fresh milk and dairv oroducts and
adjusted the structure of subsidies to the subsector- whnic' nas resulted in a
reduction of the overall subsidy of 17%, and further reductions are planned
(para. 6.02).



-7-
Aggregate subsidies on investments for dairy farmers have also been steadily
reduced since 1980. Government considers it necessary to introduce greater
efficiencies in the sector and is maintaining a close dialogue with the Bank
on these issues (para. 5.04).
2.14     Under the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan 2316-HU), the
Ministry of Agriculture has commissioned its policy analysis unit, the
Research Institute for Agricultural Economics, to carry out a study on
agricultural prices and trade, of which the first phase of the study was
presented to the Bank in September 1984. The conclusions of this part of the
study on wheat and corn indicate that the system of prices, taxes and
subsidies caused disincentives to farmers as measured by effective protection
rates (border prices). As a consequence, Government recently undertook
measures to increase the price spread between wheat and corn at the farm level
and increase the overall level of prices to farmers. Eungary is constrained
to some extent in a shift from corn to wheat by a series of interlinking
factors of which the most important are: croD rotation patterns, seasonality
of harvests, storage facilities, use of farm machinery, availability of labor
and the grain requirements of its pig herds and poultry flocks. However, corn
which is currently being exported could be substituted by wheat if yields and
profitability merit the shift. Further work is now being carried out under
the study by including about 12 more major crops and livestock commodities and
by directing the final results toward measurable impacts of alternative
pricing policies on macro-economic variables such as production, government
revenues and exports. The study is scheduled to be finalized in
September 1985.
D. Bank's Strategy for Agricultural Development
2.15     The aim of the Bank's assistance program in agriculture, including
projects and sector work, is to help Government carry out its long-term
program of structural adjustment toward a more open economy and to increase
efficiencies in the productive process. Bank efforts are primarily aimed at
achieving increased exports to convertible currency markets and, to a lesser
extent, toward import substitution of critical agricultural inputs such as
animal protein. Structural adiustment in agriculture means the most efficient
use of installed capacity in terms of increased production and, consequently,
increased exports. Progress is already being made in this area as volume
exports of wheat and livestock and products have increased since 1980. The
Bank is reenforcing government's policy action in the sector to restrict
investments to those activities which:
(a) are export oriented;
(b) cause increased efficiencies in production;
(c) make better use of agroindustrial waste products for onfarm use; and
(d)  increase productivity of labor and capital.



- 8 -
E. Previous Bank Project in Agriculture
2.16     The first loan CUStI30.4 million) to Hungary was for a Grain Storage
and Mechanization Project which became effective in August 1983. It was
supplemented by a 'B' loan of USt39 million equivalent as the Bank's
participation ir a commercial cofinancing syndication. The project is making
good progress with disbursements having reached USW66 million by end October
1984, about twice that of the appraisal estimate. The Government has learned
considerably from this experience particularly in the NBH where the staff in
the department of agriculture credit has acquired the tools of analysis to
carry out ecor.omic and financial analysis of projects according to the Bank
methodology. The project has also given Government the opportunity to use
international competitive bidding for the first time and this procedure has
resulted in considerable savings on imported equipment compared with prices
previously paid. Good performance in the preparation, evaluation and award of
contracts according to Bank guidelines has been achieved by the responsible
Hungarian agencies. The experience gained under this project was used to
optimize the design of the proposed livestock project.
III. LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY SECTOR ISSUES
3.01     The livestock subsector accounts for about half of the gross value
derived from the agricultural sector aad about 6% of GDP. It also accounts
for about 12% of total exports which are virtually all sold for convertible
currency. As shown in the table below the number of animals over the last ten
years has grown at 4.3% per annum for pigs and 4.2% per annum for sheep, but
stagnated for cattle and actually showed a rate of decline of 1% per annum for
Cows.
Estimated No.
of Animals on               Average
Stock of    Average Annual    an Average        Exports    Annual
Animals      Growth Rate      Large Farm          1984   Growth Rate
1984          1975-84          in 1984       ('000 of)   1975-84
Livestock   ('000 heads)          (%)       (Number of Head)  m tons/a       (%)
Pigs            10,200           4.3             5,000            308        15
All cattle       1,900           0.0                200           109         0
Cows               720         - 1.0               400             11 /b    14
Sheep            ',000           4.2             3,000             31         5
/a  In carcass weight equivalent.
/b Cheese exports.
The overall average annual rate of growth of the total livestock subsector
during the 1975-84 Deriod was about 3.5%. The level of technology used in



- 9 -
livestock production in Hungary is acceptable but there is room for
substantial improvements in certain areas. One of these areas is the
reduction of unit costs of production including labor use through
modernization of animal housing and new equipment to work with livestock.
Another area to be improved is the poor quality of forages which cause
relatively low yields in ruminant production; this incl;des the improvement of
marginal grasslands in the country for more intensive use by sheep and beef
animals.
3.02     In supporting livestock farming, Government research stations have
several assistance programs in animal nutrition, design and use of buildings
and equipment, productivity of grasslands, dairy hygiene and artificial
insemination. Large farms usually have their own veterinarians to carry out
the daily tasks of maintaining animal health at the farm level, but also
receive technical support from one _f the Production Systems specialized in
animal health and development (para. 2.03). In addition, there are producer
associations which support the industry in transfering technology from abroad,
in obtaining favorable livestock policies from Government and, to a lesser
extent, in promoting exports.
A. Animal Feed and Inputs
Feed
3.03     Hungary is a grain surplus country and supplies all of its own corn
needs and considerable quantities of sunflower meal; however, because of the
lack of animal feedstuffs, it imports about 500,000 tons of soybean meal
annually. Corn is harvested at a high moisture level (28%) which requires
high energy costs for drying. This situation has encouraged commercial-scale
experiments in the system of storing and handling high moisture corn, which
is comprised of horizontal silos for storing the corn, large tanks to hold the
meat pulp or whey and to mix it with corn and feed additives, trailers to
transport the liquid mix and the pumping mechanism to transfer the feed from
the trailers directly to the pig troughs. This investment would be supported
by the proposed project. Further commercial experiments need to be carried
out on preserving the meat pulp and whey beyond a 3-day period and thus,
provide the wet-feeding system with greater f.exibility.  Slaughterhouse
by-products, such as blood and feath-rs, are only being partially processed on
a commercial scale for feed and cause a serious pollution problem, as these
waste materials are released into rivers or in the environment requiring a
need for improved waste processing facilities.
Inputs
3.04     Most conventional feed mills are in need of repair and are outmoded;
several are converted flour mills with low operating efficiency. These plants
are located mostly on large farms and presently require rehabilitation and
expansion in order to meet the expanding needs of the livestock industry.
Storage facilities adjacent to those mills are also inadequate and require
modernization and expansion. In addition, some of the smaller pre-mix
concentrate plants are now obsolete and are scheduled to be shut down and
replaced with modern large-scale plants. Additicnal ffeedmil7 capacitv for



- 10 -
concentrates and pre-mixes should also be expanded to meet the demand for
increased livestock numbers. Feed-additive enzymes and antibiotics for
increasing digestibility of feeds and controlling animal disease are being
produced by the Phylaxia Vaccine Production Company, but its equipment and
buildings are outmoded and deteriorating. Modernization of facilities would
permit production of improved and more efficient products, which are in demand
in the country. The proposed project would address these issues.
B. Livestock Production
3.05     About half of all pigs are raised on large farms, with the other half
being owned by farm workers on the cooperatives and state farms and industrial
workers and retired persons living in rural areas who usually enter into feed
and pig sharing arrangements with large farm management. In 1983, about
11 million pigs were slaughtered, yielding about 880,000 tons of carcass
weight, of which about 20% was exported. Many pig raising facilities were
built around 1968-1972 and now require rehabilitation and modernization in
order to reduce unit costs of production. The major areas for improvement in
pig development concerns the better used of space in pig houses, the
substitution of mechanical ventilation with natural ventilation and
mechanization of the feeding system.
3.06     The beef cattle population has <   nated during the last 20 years
with little change in the productivity of Qutput. Beef fattening units are
generally not using pastures effectively nor are they using sufficient
low-cost, by-products from agroindustries to supplement their rations. Large
farms with beef raising activities usually provide their own forage to feed
the animals. Usually these farms are divided into two component parts in
terms of financial control and operations. One part deals with the
agricultural aspects including corn and hay silage and improved pastures and
the other part deals witn animal husbandry. Unfortunately, the quality of
forage is poor not only because of the lack of productive species on
grasslands, but also because the forage producing part of the farm does not
have sufficient incentives to make available high quality forage. These
problems would be addressed under the project.
3.07     The number of dairy cows has declined by about 15,000 head p.a. over
the last five years and milk production has stagnated.  Small-scale farmers /1
are leaving dairy farming because of the long hours and weekend work required
and also because it is, aDparently, more profitable to raise smaller animals,
such as rabbits, ducks and geese for market. Compared to 1977, small-scale
farmers have decreased their herds about 5% p.a. and currently manage about
30% of all dairy animals with the assistance of the large farms which supply
forage, supporting technical services and marketing. The national dairy and
beef cow herd is about 720,000 head, of which about 520,000 are owned by large
corporate farms and about 200,000 are owned by small scale farmers who usually
keep about two cows p'us their followers per family. On the other hand, milk
yields per cow have doubled to an overall countrv average of 4,000 kilos per
lactation in the last twelve years, mainly due to the upgrading of the animal
stock to Friesian-Holstein. Project investment would support further
improvement in the pure breed animals and would also emphasize the
/1 Small scale farmers are mostly comprised of laborers on state farms and
cooperatives whc work individuallv about 0.6 ha.



- LI -
introduction of improved technology in dairy farming. While this will cause
increases in some herds on particular large scale farms, in the aggregate, it
would not compensate for the overall decline in dairy animals (para. 6.04).
One of the improvements needed in dairy farming is a change in the system of
handling cows which would decrease unit costs of production and make labor use
more efficient. Nearly all of the dairy herd in the large farm sector is
milked in barns with stanchion-type cattle stalls. Milking equipment is
generally old and largely worn out and is not well-adjusted to large dairy
operations. In many cases, dairy herds are scattered on different parts of
the same large farm unit and need to be collected into one unit to achieve
economies of scale and reduce unit costs. There is, therefore, a need to
upgrade the infrastructure on most farms.
3.08     Hungary has 1.3 million ha of grasslands which are not suitable for
cultivation but could be upgraded to maintain sheep and beef cows. Pasture
yields are low and farmers complain that the technical packages currently
supplied by technicians for pasture intensification are too expensive and not
reliable. In fact, these packages have been developed by agronomists better
acquainted with intensive annual crops rather than by specialized pasture
scientists. A major grassland management research program is required to make
more productive use of the existing grassland for ruminant production.
3.09     Sheep population has fluctuated from 2 to 3 million heads since
1970. After 1975, farms began to increase these herds because of promising
international markets for lambs and Kaskavel cheese; sheep are grazed on the
large farms marginal grasslands. Sheep development policy has traditionally
encouraged wool production and, to a lesser extent, export of high-quality
light and heavy lambs. Greater emphasis is now being given to dairy-type
breeds.
C. Agroindustry
Meat Processing
3.10     Between the state-owned and cooperative-owned slaughterhouses and
onfarm slaughter, about 1.3 million tons of liveweight pigs, -00,000 tons of
beef and 15,000 tons of sheep were slaughtered in the country in 1983. About
37% of the processed pork, 30% of the carcass beef and 80'6 of the carcass
mutton were exported. Hungary also exports about 100,000 tons of live cattle,
63,000 tons of live pigs and about 35,000 tons of live lambs. Exporting of
carcass meat and meat products is overseen by the Meat Trust (MT) which is a
specialized agency for the industry and assigns specific tasks to its
19-member slaughterhouses, determines the annual investment outlays by the
plants and assists in the export of these products. The MT also attempts to
improve management of plants and supports research and development nn the meat
industry. However, capital investment in these firms has declined from
US$50 million equivalent in 1981 to onlv US$20 million in 1983, which is a
rate of iivestment too low to support modernization and expansion of plants
required to maintain and increase exported processed meat. The capacity of
the slaughterhouses is utilized to a high degree largely due to the rapidly
increasing production of pigs. The seven largest plants in the country are
operating ot 92% of their actual capacity.  Some slaughterliouses are operating



- 12 -
their processing lines thlee shifts per day, seven days a week in order to
meet the increased production. All five of the largest slaughterhouses lack
cooling and cold -torage facilities and pork, beef and steep carcasses are
transported long distances from the slaughterhouse to rented cold storage
facilities, which results in lower yields and poorer meat quality.
Dairy Processing
3.11     The dairv industry is organized into 15 large state companies which
comprise 62 processing plants and 18 cooperatives. The state industry is
managed by the Dairy Trust as a legal and financial entity which owns the
assets of the individual plants. Its role is to determine investment for each
plant and to organize the production mix in specific products to be produced
by member plants. These plants account for about S6% of total processed milk;
cooperative-owned dairies largely meet small city demands of fresh milk, sour
cream and cheese curd. Capital investment in the state-owned industry has
declined froir US$23 million equivalent in i98L to US$11 million in 1983.  The
most out-dated equipment in the industry is principally in the packaging and
processing of milk and in the production of cheese curd products. The state
dairy companies are distributing their products daily to about 22,000 sales
outlets all through Hungary, of which 4,400 are located in Budapest. One
major problem in the distribution of milk is the short shelf-life of the milk
packed in polyethylene bags. Due to low quality of the incoming milk, and low
quality of the packaging material, the shelf-life does not exceed one day.
Milk which is not sold during the day either goes back to the dairy for
reprocessing into powder or is dumped.
D. Research and Training
3.12     As described above in para. 3.08, a major research issue is to
enhance the nutritional value of marginal grasslands for grazing of beef cows
and sheep.  There is a need for establishing nutritional systems for livestock
which would allow reduction in grain feeding of cattle and other ruminants.
The average low quality of hay and corn silage requires quality control and
remuneration to suppliers according to its quality. Livestock farmers require
cheaper and more cost effective animal housing and more efficient use of
modern equipment to handle and store feed, products and manure at the farm
level.  The four existing artificial insemination centers require
rehabilitation and the lack of good hygienic practices in handling dairy
milking equipment is contributing to the h  , bacteria counts in raw miik.
Training is required to make operations more efficient in slaughterhouses and
to manage large farms more effectively.
E.  Export '1arketing
3.13     Currentlv, Hungary exports about US$1,300 million equivalent in live
animals and animal products, mostly to the USSR and Western Europe with
groWing markets in the Middle East and United States.  All incremental exports
of livestcck and its products are paid in convertible currency. The most
impcrtant processed export commodities relevant to the project are:  (a) pork
s'des, US$166 million in 1983; (b) carcass beef, US$70 m'llion; (c) special
pork cuts, US$53 million; (d) canned meat, US$41 mill1on: and (e) salami,
L-S2   million.  Export %-0Iule ol ani-mals and Droducts has grout. at an averaZe



- 13 -
annual rate of 14% between 1976-83. While Hungarian meat exports do r.".
comprise more than 10% of individual commodities on export markets, the growth
rate of Hungarian products has been more than twice the growth rate of total
world meat exports during that period. Hungary is continuing to make progress
in the export of cheese to che Middle East, Western Europe and the United
States by filling niches in the existing market with high quality products
with relatively low prices. During the period 1976-84, total cheese exports
increased by 3.7 times and current exports were almost 11,000 tons in 1984;
over the same period, white cream cheese increased about 5 times and exports
reached 5,500 tons.
3.14     The carcass meat market has come under increased competition,
particularly as the EEC has import-substituted carcass beef usually imported
from soutnern South America. Hungary has established a market share on
several international markets but needs to intensify its search for new
markets and, at the same time, maintain and expand, its existing markets. The
country needs to carry out further market research to identify in detail new
market opportunities and ziew product lines as well as to design a short-term
and medium-term strategy to develop new markets. New investment will be
required to undertake those activities which are essential to placing an
increasing amount of carcass and processed meats and cheese on world markets.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Concept and Obiectives
4.01     The rationale for the project is based on the introduction of modern
technology to the livestock indi try in Hungary and the provision of the
necessary foreign exchange for the procurement of western-style machinery and
equipment. The proposed livestock project fits in well with the strategy to
modernize the integrated livestock industry from the feed and input supply
system and onfarm development to agro-processing of livestock and improved
export marketing. In the absence of Bank involvement in the development of
the livestock subsector, Hungary would, most likely, not have taken this
integrated approach which would improve the competitiveness of Hungarian
livestock exports through decreased unit costs of production and improved
quality of the final product. Under the project, Hungary would directly
import farm machinery, livestock equipment and agroindustrial equipment to
rehabilitate and modernize livestock farms and agro-industries which provide
inputs to these farms and process the animals into commercial products for
export. Under the existing Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan
2316-HU), modernization of storage facilities and procurement of modern
machinery for grain production is being carr-ed out.
4.02     The main objective of the project is to increase foreign exchanige
earnings in convertible currency through the expansion of expotts of ra- and
processed animal products.  This would be achieved by strengthening the
complete chain of production from inputs to processed output by addressing the
main issues presented in Chapter 3, i.e. the rehabilitation and expansion of
existing facilities which provide inputs or which directly produce cattle,



- 14 -
pigs and sheep, and which process meat and cheese. Project investment would
increase the efficiency and quality of production and place Hungary in a more
competitive position for exporting. The project responds to the current
investment needs of the livestock sector in reorienting production toward
increased efficiency and toward greater export opportunities.
4.03     To achieve these objectives, project investments would be aimed at:
(a)  increasing factor productivity through the development of more
efficient farming units, the purchase of modern machinery and
equipment, and the introduction of improved technologies on the farms
and in agroindustries which process meat, milk and animal by-Droducts;
(b)  reducing unit production costs through labor-saving technologies and
more efficient equipment and manufacturing processes;
(c)  upgrading the quality of meat by improving the hygienic conditions of
meat processing plants in line with USDA and EEC standards,
rehabilitating outmoded facilities, expanding their cold storage
facilities and improving their packaging and handling equipment; and
(d) improving livestock yields in the country through better pasture and
fodder resource utilization and more efficient conversion of feed
into animal products.
B. Project Descriptio
4.04     The project would consist of five investment components:
(a)  Animal Feed and Livestock Input Supply, including:
(i)    a pre-mix feed plant of 20 tons per hour;
(ii)    58 feedmills for rehabilitation and expansion;
(iii)    an animal blood processing unit;
(iv)    a feather processing unit;
(-X)   an animal enzyme and antibiotic plant;
(vi)    a meat pulp feed unit; and
(vii)    a plant for manufacturing replacement liners for milking
machines.
(b)  Onfarm Production,  ncluding:
(i)    reconstruction and expansion of 32 Dig farms;
(ii)    expansicn of 56 farms for 'eeder cattle a..d beef fattening;
(iii)    expansicr o,a  2  sheen farms; and



- 15 -
(iv)    modernization of 12 dairy farms.
(c) Agroindustrial Processing, including:
(i)    modernization of 7 slaughterhouses;
(ii)    a credit line for equipment replacement in other
slaughterhouses; and
(iii)    9 milk processing units.
(d) Research and Training, including:
(i)    research in pig, dairy and sheep production and grassland
improvement; and
(ii)    study programs for research workers and traiting activities for
farm and slaughterhouse managers and technicians.
(e) Export Marketing Services, including:
Ci)    a study of an improved market strategy in world markets for
project commodities, including specific recommendations for
penetrating new markets; and
(ii)    marketing services to enhat.ce market entry and expansion of
market share through sales promotion.
(f) Technical Assistance
ti)    280 man-months of internationally recruited consultants to carry
out agroindustrial design and engineering and agricultural
research services.
The project would provide financing through subloans from NBH for state farms,
cooperatives and agroindustrial firms to make the investments required on
productive components and would be implemented over a four year period.
4.05     Most of these investments are site specific on farms or in
agroindustrial enterprises. Some of the feedmills under the project would be
owned by the Grain Trust while others would be owned by state farms and
cooperatives; the blood and feather orocessing units would come under the
ownership of the National Rendering Authority (ATEV). The animal enzyme and
antibiotic plant is owned by the Phylaxia Compary. The meat pulp, wet-feeding
scheme for pigs, as well as the proposed plant for manufacturing replacement
liners for milking machines is owned by BOSCOOP, a large cooperative which
provides technical services to livestock farmers. Production of cattle, pigs
and sheep is carried out on state farms and cooperatives. The slaughterhouses
and dairy processing plants are owned by individual firms or are part of
agricultural conglomerates and the dairy processing plants are owned
and operated by the Dairy Trust. Map 18681 shows the location of the
site-specific components of the project. All of these farms and



- 1b -
agroindustries are established enterprises which have experience in
livestock production or livestock processing. The project would also include
a study to determine the causes of inefficiencies in the livestock and
agroindustrial subsectors (para. 5.04). Detailed investment costs are shown
in Tables I and 2.
Detailed Features
4.06     Animal Feed and Livestock Input Supply.  A large (20 ton/hr) feed
concentrate plant will be established at one of the large farms to provide
pre-mixes of high protein content to feedmills for protein enrichment of
feed. About 30 deteriorated feedmills would be modernized and expanded to 7.5
ton/hr and some 27 existing feedmills would be converted into liquid feed
mixing plants located on pig farms. Ail animal blood processing unit and
feather processing unit would be installed in a large rendering factory in the
southeastern part of the country. Both units would produce meal for animal
feed and would have desirable anti-pollution effects. An animal enzyme and
antibiotic plant would be reconstructed outside of Budapest to provide animal
drugs; the plant would import-substitute as well as export some of these
products. BOSCOOP would construct a modern meat pulp feed system on one of
its farms to develop a process for increasing the storage life of meat pulp
feed from three days to two months. Finally, a small plant for manufacturing
rubber replacement liners for milking machines would be established.
4.07     Onfarm Production.  Under the project about 32 pig breeding/fattening
farms would be reconstructed and expanded from about 500 to 800 sows. Simpler
buildings would be constructed to save space and use natural rather than
mechanical ventilation relative to the previously-built structures and
imported equipment would be used to introduce new technologies in wet feeding
and upgrade the dry feeding system for pigs.  Investment would also improve
the manure handling system, pig farrowing pens and nurseries. In addition,
some 56 beef breeding and fattening farms would be modernized and expanded.
Beef breeding farms are expected to expand from about 200 to 500 cows and
would keep their animals outdoor year-round, about 170 days per year on
pasture in summer and on cheap roughages, including maize stalks and straw and
some agro-industrial by-products, in winter to keep production costs low.
Beef fattening farms would have simple, cheap barns and yards with central
feeding troughs for forage. About 21 sheep farms would invest in the
expansion of sheep barns and milking machines. Farms would expand from about
2,800 ewes to 4,000 ewes and herds would be crossbred with imported rams of
dairy breeds which have been tested for their suitability under Hungarian
climatic conditions; investment would also be made in improving meat-type
sheep. Finally, about 19 existing dairy farms would be modernized and herds
scattered on different units of the large farms would be brought together in
one centralized unit, which would be expanded from 400 to about 800 head,
converting stanchion barns into loose housing and new building structures to
house side-by-side, herring bone milking parlors.
4.08     Agrcindustrial Processing.  The reconstruction and modernization of
seven existing slaughterhouses are planned in Debrecen, Cegled, C-yula,
Szekszard, Kapuvar, Miskolc and Papa.  While each plant has its own investment
needs, common features among them are the modernization of slaughtering,



- 17 -
processing and packing facilities, expansioni of cold storage units, and the
addition of cold storage space with low-temperature, quick-freezing tunnels to
increase yields and to maintain high-quality products. All facilities under
the project would be equipped to meet the hygienic standards in line with EEC
and US meat import regulations.  Licenses and "know-how" would also be
purchased by the slaughterhouses. Four ultra-filtration units would be
installed in existing dairy plants for making cheese which would enable those
plants over the medium-term to export an increasing amount of higher-quality
cheese. The ultra-filtration technology would save about 20-25% more milk
solids than the existing process. Also, five ultra-high temperature milk
processing units with packaging equipment would be installed in existing dairy
plants which service the metropolitan areas of Budapest, Lak! Balaton, Miskolc
and Szeged. This process would significantLy extend the shelf life of
retailed fresh milk and would reduce fresh milk losses.  The financial and
technic,l features of these project investments along with investments in
feedmills and livestock input supply are detailed in Annex 1.
4.09     Research.  With a view to improving technical feedback to producers
on nutritional systems and equipment for livestock, two 500-ha research farms,
one at Herceghalom for research in animal nutrition and a second at Godollo
for testing equipment for use in livestock production, would be established
and equipped under the project; the work to be undertaken at Herceghalom would
be managed by the livestock research department of MEM and the work at Codollo
would be managed by the Livestock Joint Enterprise, a specialized company
owned by several large farms. In addition, since grasslands in the country
are a large underdeveloped source of animal feed, but little is presently
being done to improve them, an improved grassland research program would be
undertaken at the Pasture Research Institute at Szarvas, which would include
study tours abroad by Hungarian technicians on grassland management. The
Animal Breeding Company, an autonomous entity, would rehabilitate four
artificial insemination centers for bull accommodations in different regions
of the country; training grants would be made available for overseas study for
artificial insemination specialists. Because of a relatively high bacteria
count in fresh milk and the widespread occurrence of mastitis which cause high
culling rates of dairy herds, a central milk testing lab would be established
at Godollo and managed by the Animal Breeding Company. This is expected to
result in higher quality milk and in the early diagnosis of mastitis.
4.10     Training.  Achievement of project objectives would entail training of
agroindustrial technicians and agricultural research workers in modern
techniques of plant and farm management and in specific areas of operations in
slaughterhouses and on large farms. This would include the bridging of
technical capacity gaps in slaughterhouses by:
(a) improving the systems of accounts, control cf inventories and the
handling of materials;
(b)  developing new inputs and final produrrs; .nd
(c) operating and maintaining new equipment.
For ,!gricul ture, this would. ;--hit-:
(a) improving the quality of forage;



- 18 -
(b)  upgrading of individual skills in management, professional, technical
and worker levels;
(c) providing technical assistance to deliver specialized skills to some
key staff; and
(d) providing equipment to upgrade the capacity of the MEM training
center.
This training would be implemented by the individual project slaughterhouse
with the coordination of the Meat Trust for agroindustries and by MEM for
agriculture. Training would include workshops, seminars, courses, and
in-service training in addition to study trips and tutored training through
technical assistance.
4.11     Export Marketing Services.  A study of an improved marketing strategy
in world markets for the meats and cheese expected to be produced under tlle
project is being carried out by GIRA of Switzerland (para. 6.05). The study
would indicate recommended marketing strategies to be taken by Hungary on
identified new markets regarding individual commodities. This detailed
information on specific markets would set market targets for meat and cheese
products which would be developed through a series of export marketing actions
undertaken during project implementation. TERIMPEX, the Meat Trust and
HUNGEXPO would be the agencies which would carry-out these marketing services
for:
(a)    establishing a more effective export market organization through
personal contacts in 15 to 20 markets;
(b)    testing existing and new products in the target markets;
Cc)    building up brand names;
(d)    designing of packaging and labeling according to different
market demands; and
(e)    carrying out advertising campaigns, public relations and sales
promotion activities.
Design and Engineering
4.12     In all of the five major project slaughterhouses, preliminary designs
are available or under preparation. In some cases, such as the reconstruction
of the Debrecen slaughterhouse, intermediate drawings are already available;
the Meat Trust will hire foreign engineering consultants to review the design
work already advanced and they would make adjustments to the designs in order
to meet EEC and USDA standards and propose the most efficient plant layout.
They would also assist in preparation of specifications for equipment and
civil works in individual plants. All sites have been selected for the
installation of the five ultra-high temperature units and four
ultra-filtration units and the individual dairy plant management under
supervision by the Dairy Trust is tundertaking preliminary desigr. and



- 19 _
engineering work. The Phylaxia Company which will reconstruct its enzymes and
antibiotic plant has preliminary drawings ready for review. The blood and
feather rendering facilities which will be installed as an extension of an
existing plant are still in a planning stage. The sites of the feedmills and
farms participating in the project will not be known until NBH has received
specific subloan requests from investors in accordance with project criteria
(para. 5.09). See Chart 26800 for the project implementation schedule.
C. COST ESTIMATE
4.:;     The total project cost including physical and price contingencies is
e.timated to be US$325 million equivalent, including an estimated US$63
million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component, which includes
both direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. is estimated at US$148
million or 46S of the total project cost. The base costs were derived from
feasibility studies and adjusted by the appraisal mission to prices of January
1985 at the exchange rate of US$l = Ft. 50. The cost estimates presented in
the table below include a physical contingency of 9% of base cost and price
contingency of 192 of base cost plus physical contingencies. Price
contingencies have been allowed at 8Z in 1985, 9X in 1986-88 and 7.5% in 1989
for foreign currency cost and 8% in 1985-1986, 7% in 1987-88 and 6.5S in 1989
for local cosLs. The project is expected to be completed by December 1989.
Projict Cost Estimate
Local   Foreign   T-,tal    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign   Base Cost
Project Components          Million Forints----     -- USS Million------  as S of   as S of
_____________________________________                                       Total      Total
LivestDCk Production
Pig farms             1.125.4   538.2   1.663.6    22.5   10.8    33.3       32        13
Beef farms            1.183.3   296.5   1.479.8    23.7    5.9   29.6        19        12
Oiiry farms            578.2   333.5    911.7       11.5    6.7    18.2      37        7
Sheeo farms            41B.9   237.4      656.3     84      4.7   13. 1      X
Sub-total          3.05j   1.405.6   4.711.4     kJ    2is.   2942        1_        37
Agro, ndLstry
Slaughterhouses       1.93Z.9  2.312.8   4.245.7    38.7   46.2   84.9       54        34
Feedmills. Input supply 1.099.3   936.3   2.035.6    22.0   18.7   40.7      46        16
Dairy plants           1S0.8    493.3    644.1      3.0    9.9    12.9       77        s
Rendering plants       122._2  _ 9L       220.Z    2_4       0LJ    4.4      *
Sub-total          3,303.0  3-84i.1   Z.146.1    6AI    7L6.    142I.L    5
Engineertn. Research
and Trag.ninq          Z49.6   279.6    529.2       5.0    5.6    10.6       53        4
79.9   114.1    194.0       t.6    2.3    3.9       59         2
Base Costs             6.940.:  5.640.4  12.580.7    138.8   112.8   251.6    45       100
Physical coritingencies    596 a    505.6   1.102.0    11.9   10.1    22.0    -        9
Price contingencies  1.319J.    1.258.0   2.577.7    264    25.2    LA.6     _
Total Project Cost    .,856.4  7.404.0  IJi.2,5    177.1   148.1  325 25           129
Base costs in January 1985 Prices



- 20 -
D. FINABNCINC
4.14     A Bank loan of US$80 million is proposed to cover about 252 of total
project cost and about 54% of the estimated total foreign exchange component.
Additional financing required for project implementation would be provided by
NBH presently estimated to be in the amount of US$168 million or 52% of
project cost, and from equity contributions of subborrowers in the amount of
US$77 million or about 23% of project cost.  The Bank loan would be made to
NBH for 15 years including a three-year grace period at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. US$79.5 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan
would be on-lent by NBH to the beneficiaries on terms and conditions agreed by
NBH and the Bank (para 5.09). The balance of US$0.5 million necessary for the
training of research workers would be carried out by MEN and would be
transferred by NBE to Government which would be responsible for servicing this
part of the Bank loan.  The Bank loan would retroactively finance up to
US$200,000 of foreign expenditures incurred in the carrying out of an export
market study for Hungarian meat and cheese products. Assurances were given at
negotiations that counterpart funds would be made available for project works
according to the sources of financing in the table below.  Depending on market
conditions, a "B" 1,oan type o' co-financing operation will be pursued in
conjunction w"th the Fine Chemicals Project and tne Transport Project which
are also be'ng proposed for World Bank assistance. The co-financing operation
will be in the order of about US$420 million for all three projects and, once
available, will substitute for part of the domestic funds. The detailed
financing plan is as follows.
Source of Financing
Project
NBH        Beneficiaries        IBRD            Total
--------------US$ Millions-----------------
Equipment                72.8           46.0             71.0             189.8
Civil Works              72.2           22.9              -                95.1
Livestock                13.3            4.9              2.0              20.2
Technical Assistance      4.0            1.0              7.0              12.0
Pasture Establishment    6.1             2.0              -                 8.1
Sub-total            16S.4           76.8             SO0             325.2
Percentage Distribution  52%             23%              25%              L00%



- 21 -
E. PROCUREMENT
4.15      Equipment, goods and services to be provided under the project would
be procured as follows:
ICB      LCB       Other    Total
Project Item                                  ---US$ Million---
Equipment                                          93         97        -       190
(70) /b
Civil Works                                         -        66         29 /a    95
Technical Assistance                                -          -        12       19
(8)
Livestock and Forage Establishment                  2 /c      26        -        2&
(2)
Total                                       95       189        41       325
(72)                (8)
/a 30% of civil works would be by force account with no bidding required.
/b Figures between brackets correspond to Bank financing.
jc The Bank loan will only finance livestock imports.
4.16     All equipment and services to be finarced under the Bank loan would
be Drocured in accordance with Bank guidelines. International competitive
bidding (ICB) will be used for the purchase of all equipment and goods
financed under the Bank loan except for proprietary equipment, such as
accessories to computer equipment and packages of small items of an equivalent
value of US$200,000 or Less which may be procured under international shopping
from qualified suppliers. The aggregate amount of goods procured under such
exception to ICB procedures will not exceed in value the equivalent of
US$4 million. Purebred breeding stock, estimated to cost about US$2 million,
would be procured through limited international bidding. on the basis cf
evaluations and comparisons of bids invited from at least three qualified
suppliers from three different countries. Production licenses, estimated to
cost about US$L million, would be procured through direct contracting with the
owners of such licenses. Equipment, services and works not financed by the
Bank will be procured under pre-*ailing local procedures which provide for
efficient and economic procurerae.-t.
4.17     ICB procurement would be carried out by two fo reign trade companies:
KOMPLEX and AGROTEK. KOMPLEX wouid be in charge of ail imports of equipmelnt
and machinery for meat processing, dairy and rendering plants. For these
purchases, about 10 separate equipment contracts are expected to be awarded
for slaughterhouses for an estimated value of US$35 million involving m
slaughtering lines, processing `ines and cold storage equipment.  Two l:-



- 22s -
contracts would be awarded for imports of ultra-high temperature and
ultra-filtration milk processing, sterilizing and packing equipment for an
estimated value of about US$11.0 million. Two contracts for imports of blood
and feather rendering equipment would also be awarded for an amount equivalent
to about US$1.3 million. AGROTEK would be in charge of ICB procurement for
each of the major packages of equipment for the animal feed and input supply
including: (a) fermenters, air compressors and other equipment for an enzymes
and antibiotics factory and a meat pulp feed plant for an estimated value of
about US$2.3 million and equipment for a small plant to manufacture rubber
liners for milking machines for US$0.4 million; and (b) peletting mills and
other equipment for a feed concentrate plant and the modernization of about 58
feed mills for an estimated value of about US$9.0 million and for imports
related to onfarm investment valued at about US$10.0 million for
rehabilitation of beef, pigs, sheep and dairy farms. AGROTEX would also
procure about US$1 million of livestock research equipment under ICB
procedures.
4.18     Consultant services for design, engineering and equipment
installation for the slaughterhouse and training for agricultural research
workers and slaughterhouse technicians and managers are estimated to cost
US$4.7 million. Marketing services to promote the sale of project commodities
on international markets are estimated to cost about US$2.3 million. AGROBER,
a national engineering company (para. 2.07), and other qualified engineering
firms will provide engineering services for the supervision of construction of
civil works and for the installation of the agro-industrial equipment. At the
request of the foreign trade entreprises, they would also be available to
prepare specifications for the bidding documents. international consultants
would be hired to complement the work of local engineering firms by: (a)
ensuring that the slaughterhouse designs and engineering are responsive to FEC
and USDA hygenic standards required for export of meat products; (b) providing
expertise in supervising the equipment installaticn in slaughterhouses and
dairy processing plants; and (c) assisting in the final preparation of
specifications for ICB. About 702 of the contracts for civil works related to
the industrial installation would be awarded under LCB procedures; the
remainder will be built on force account by the individual enterprises.
4.19     The Bank would carry out prior review of bidding documents, bid
evaluation reports and draft contracts of packages above US$3 million, which
is estimated to comprise about 75' of the total amount of contracts to be
f ianced bj- the Bank. Assurances were given durirg negotiations that the
Borrower would carry out these procurement procedures.



- 23 -
F. Disbursements
4.20     Disbursement of the proposed bank loan of US$80 million would be as
follows:
Amount of Loan
Allocated
(Expressed in US$          % of Expenditures
Category                       Equivalent)                 to be Financed
(1) Equipment and spare parts               22,300,000)
for feedmills, meat pulp                        )
processing, antibiotics and                     )  100% of foreign
enzymes production, blood and                    )    expenditures and
feather rendering, milking                      )  100% of local
machines liners and livestock                    )    e-penditures
production and research                         )    (ex-factory cost)
facilities                                      )
(2) Livestock                                2,000,000)
(3) Equipment and spareparts for            40,000,000)
slaughterhouses and dairy                       )
processing facilities                            )
) 100% of foreign
(4) Consultant services, staff               5,500,000)   expenditures
training, marketing services                    )
and production lcenses                          )
(5) Special Account                          6,000,000
(6) Unallocated                              49200,000
TOTAL                                   80,000,000
Disbursements under all categories would be supported by full documentation.
Statement of Expenditures would not be used for contracts for goods or
services valued at more than US$50,000. Assurances that these disbursement
procedures would be followed were obtained during negotiations.
4.21     The disbursement profiles for Bankwide livestock and agricultural
credit projects show that project disbursement required seven years while
EMENA agricultural credit projects reauired nine years. In the case of the
present project, full disbursement is expected to take place over six years
from the date of loan signing (Table 3). The reasons for deviating from the
disbursement profiles are: (a) Hungary has an excellent record of
disbursements; for example. the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project was
declared effective in August L983 and bv end October 1984, US$66 million had
already disbursed i.e. about twioe the Bank SAR disbursemcnit estimates for



- 24 -
that date; (b) the livestock project deals mostly with large commercial farms
and agroindustries which are expected to carry out the design and engineering
work as well as purchase investment items in an efficient and timely manner;
and (c) a revolving tund would be provided to facilitate disbursements.
4.29     To accelerate payments of ICB suppliers and reduce administrative
work in the Bank for small disbursements, a Revolving Fund (RF) would be
established at the NBH. Deposits into the RF would reElect actual need for
financial resources as estimated.  The RF would maintain a constant floor of
Bank deposits of the equivalent of the average four months' expenditures which
are estimated to be about US$6 million and would be allowed upon request by
NBH to increase adequately deposits at the time of major ICB bid opening.
Records of the revolving funds proceeds and outlays would be kept in a special
project account to be held at the NBH and run parallel to the master project
account. A record of all contracts financed and a permanent accounting record
of operations financed would be kept by NBH and be available for review by
Bank missions upon demand. Payments from the RF would only be made for
eligible expenditures indicated in the Loan Agreement. An audit report by an
indeoendent auditor on the RF account would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank not later than 4 months after the end of the fiscal year.
V.  PROJECT iMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management
ResDons ibi- ities  cor implementation
-.01     NBH would be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan.  NBH would have
primary responsibility 'or the financial aspects of the project, establish
credit worthiness of the subborrowers and decide which firms would receive
subloans. ;BH branch offices wouid assist subloan applicants to prepare
subloan requests and ensure that the selection of project beneficiaries will
be done on the basis of sub-project feasibility studies, models and credit
guidelines.  AGROEER would be hired by NBH to supply the technical support
staff for evaluation of subloan applications when necessary.  MEM would help
participating farms and aeroindustrial firms facilitate communications with
NBH and other Government agencies through its management and tLccLnica'. field
staff.  The work related to project execution in MEM would be the
responsibility of the GrouD for International Development organized within the
Ministry to deal with foreign-assisted projects.  MEM staff would directly
carry out the agricultural research and training component of the project.
5.02     AGROBER is a large engineering and consulting firm which services
natlona. as w-ell as foreign contracts.  It has plaved an essential role in tl,e
Vreparation of- the sub-projects for Government's feasibility report on this
project and will continue to play a central role ir. evaluating the technical
and economic f'eatures of project implementation.  Its main tasks would be to:



- 25 -
(a) review all subloan applications and evaluate their technical and
economic viability;
(b) prepare complete development plans including the necessary
engineering work for rehabilitation and expansion of large farms and
agroindustrial firms;
(c) supervise the construction and installation of machinery;
(d) prepare a financial cash flow and economic analysis of sub-projects;
(e) prepare technical specifications of bidding documents for
international tenders when requested by the designated foreign
trading companies; and
(f) prepare periodic reports on project progress and maintain a project
monitoring system.
Consultants would be hired by the farms and agroindustrial firms to prepare
engineering work and development plans and by the foreign trade enterprises
for preparation of specifications for international bidding documents.  It was
agreed during project appraisal that AGROBER would be hired by NBH for report
preparation, project monitoring, bid evaluation, review of subloan
applications and project planning. AGROTEX and KOMPLEX are foreign trade
enterprises charged with the procurement of goods and services for the
agricultural firms and agroindustrial enterprises, respectively, and would be
responsible for packaging equipment items for international tendering. Both
firms are experienced with the Bank's guidelines for procurement and have
prepared bidding documents under other Bank financed projects.
B. Technical Services
5.03     TERIMPEX, the foreign trade enterprise dealing in food and animal
feed, and the Meat Trus:, a specialized agency representing the interests of
the state-owned slaughterhouses, would be responsible for executing the
marketing services component of the project. TERIMPEX and the Meat Trust
would actually sign contracts for export sales of meat products, and the Dairv
Trust for cheese products. In some cases, it is expected that meat processing
companies would undertake direct selling abroad. HUNGEXPO, an export
promotion and sales organization attached to the Ministry of Foreign Trade
would assist in the promotion of Hungarian meat and cheese products in
selected international markets.  The Department of Foreign Trade in MEM Swould
participate with the above mentioned agencies in group decision making on the
use of project funds for implementation of the marketing services component.
5.04     The Research Institute of Agricultural Economics (AKI) would carry
out a study to determine the causes of inefficiencies in the Livestock and
relevant agroindustry subsectors and to make recommendations on a set of
economic policies required to increase efficiencies at the farm and enterprise
level and on a package of technology which could be incorporated in the
existing system of producing and processing livestock and products. Terms of
reference tor the study were presented to -he 3ank and subsccuentiv approved .



- 26 -
Assurances were given at negotiations that AKI would complete this study and
present it to the Bank by December 1986. In addition, given the importance
that livestock prices, taxes, subsidies and export policy play in the
financial viability of the proposed project and given the extensive policy
changes being implemented in this area, it was agreed at negotiations that the
Ministrv of Agriculture would present to the Bank at the end of each calendar
year, beginning December 1985, information on changes in agricultural and food
industry policy which were either formulated or carried out during that year
with special attention to export policy measures concerning processed meat and
cheese. This would be in support of the continuing dialogue on agricultural
and agroindustrial prices, taxes and subsidies between MEM/NBH and the Bank
that has already been established.
5.05     Consultants would be hired to advise local technicians and engineers
on agricultural research and on rehabilitating agroindustrial plants. At the
agricultural research stations, internationally recruited consultants would be
retained to help local research workers identify useful commercial packages of
cechnology in marginal grassland improvement, dairy husbandry, livestock
development and better systems of wet feeding pigs. In the slaughterhouses,
local and internationally recruited consultants would be hired to review plant
designs and engineering work and supervise the installation of equipment
purchased under the project. The scheduled training activities for farm and
slaughterhouse managers would be given by internationally recruited
consultants assisted by local consultants. Assurances were given at
negotiations that the above-mentioned consultants would be hired under the
project.
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
5.06     NBH lending policies and procedures aim at extending credit under
terms and conditions suitable to facilitate the achievement of the five year
plan targets. The principal priority of the credit guidelines is the
promotion of exports to the convertible currency areas through the granting of
preferential credits. Almost half Df all investment credits extended by the
National Bank in the fifth five year plan (1976-80) went to projects which
added to the nation's export capacity. In view of the high demand for credit
generated by the preferential credit lines and tne need to mobilize foreign
exchange, the guidelines include strict efficiency and profitability criteria
for selecting investment beneficiaries. Despite the persistence of tight
Government budgetary and fiscal policy, the role of credit for allocation of
financial resources is increasing. There is also a clear Government intention
to increase enterprise efficiencv and a:tonomy bv stressing greater emphasis
on profitability.
5.07     All subloans under the project would be extended by NBH at the long
term, domestic interest rate of 14%. The difference of about 5 percentage
points above the Bank's lending rate will allow NBH to cover its
administrative costs and assume the foreign exchange risks on the Bank loan.
The projected domestic inflation rates are 8% in 1985-86, 7% in 1987-88 and
6.5% in 1989. Should changes in the interest rate occur during project
implementatioa, trbe interest rate on project subloans may also change.



- 27 -
However, assurances were given at negotiations that, the new rate would not be
less than the Bank lending rate plus a mark-up of 30% on the Bank financed
portion of the subloan. On the non-Bank portion of the subloan, positive real
interest rates, meaning such rates which are greater than the annual
producers' price index, and the same maturities applicable to the
Bank-financed portion would be maintained at all times. These conditions
should provide an adequate margin to cover NBH's administrative costs and
foreign exchange risk.
5.08     Average maturities of subloans to beef, dairy, pig and bheep farms
would be eight years including two years grace; average subloan maturities for
agroindustries would be ten years including three years grace. Assurances
were given at negotiations that subborrowers would contribute a minimum of 20%
of project cost in the form of equity. Assurances were also given at
negotiations that repayment of subloans, not needed for repayment of the Bank
loan, would be utilized by NBH to finance capital investment in agricultural
development.
5.09     Subloan applications in all cases would be supported by detailed
feasibility studies or appraisal reports prepared with A(ROBER assistance and
reviewed and approved by NBH agricultural and agroindustrial credit
departments. The appraisal reports would take into account the following:
(a) the technical feasibility, financial viability, commercial soundness,
economic justification and availability of markets and processing
facilities for the incremental production of the subproject; the
project cut off point would be the opportunity cost of capital to
subborrowers estimated at 12%; and
(b) an evaluation of the proposed scale of the subproject, the need and
adequacy of the equipment to be used, estimated investment costs,
location of the investment project, its layout and design and the
technical staff available to the subborrower for implementing the
subproject and its operations.
The subborower would maintain at all times on all its operations, including
the proposed subproject, the following:
(a) a debt service average ratio of not less than 1:5:1; this ratio is
-  defined as the net income before depreciation and interest but after
taxes compared to the debt service which is comprised of repayment of
principal and interest;
(b) a debt-equity ratio at not more than 60 to 40 on subborrower
operations; and
(c) a current ratio of at least 2:1.
Assurances were given at negotiations that these conditions would be adopted
by NBH under the project. Effective demand for project funds by farms and



- 28 -
agroindustries was confirmed by NBH as a result of a preliminary advertising
of the project credit line and the submission of preliminary sub-loan
applications from interested firms.
5.10     To monitor subloan selection procedures, samples of subloan
applications in English wouald be submitted to Bank supervision missions during
project implementation. An assurance was given at negotiations that NBH would
submit to the Bank one subloan evaluation each for beef, dairy, pig and sheep
farm development, for feedmill rehabilitation and for modernization of the
Szekszard Meat Company and the Phylaxia Company to be reviewed by the Bank
prior to subloan approval.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.11     The NBH controller's office would set up a project account at the
start of the project. Such account would keep a detailed record of all
subloans extended under the project, whether financed with Bank or NBH funds.
The agricultural credit and the food industry credit departments of the NBH
would receive monthly copies of the controllers print out for such an account
and prepare a summary note for the Depz:tment Deputy President, indicating:
%a) up-to-date project financial status; (b) the type of subprojects financed
such as pig farms or slaughterhouses; and (c) the respective sources of
finance used such as Bank funds, NBH funds, beneficiary equity contributions
and Government subsidies.
5.12     The project account would be a valuable source of information for
NBH, MEM and supervision missions to check project progress and investment of
project funds. An assurance was given at negotiations that NBH will furnish
to the Bank, within four months of the end of the fiscal year, a report of the
project account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. One
such auditor, the General Bank and Trust Company in Hungary has been assessed
by the Bank as acceptable. The NBH agreed that each agroindustrial and farm
beneficiary with investment above US$400,000 shall, within four months after
the end of each fiscal year, submit to the NBH for subsequent review by Bank
missions, a short-form, annual, audit report on its financial performance,
consistent in scope and content with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditin of Projects Financed by the World Bank which is dated
March 1982. The audit reports would be kept at NBH and shown to Bank
supervision missions on request.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13     NBH assisted by MEM and AGROBER would be responsible for monitoring
all project components. This would include supervision of procurement
operations, of project progress at farm and factory site, of operating results
by means of field visits and periodical review of financial statements of
project beneficiaries. NBH would submit to the Bank a detailed semi-annual
progress report which would include among others: (a) Project performance
indices comparing appraisal expectations with actual results; (b) narrative
review of major technical and administrative problems encountered during
project implementation; and (c) actions or revisions recommended. AGROBER is
presentlv preparing a manual for distribution to NBH, MEM and stl borrowers na



- 29 -
project monitoring and reporting requirements under the project. In addition
to the report submitted by NBH, AGROBER would monitor the physical progress of
the subprojects and submit its report to NBH to be included in the progress
report sent to the Bank.
5.14     The progress report would be submitted to the Bank within 30 days of
the end of the semester under review. NBH would also attach to each progress
report an up-to-date copy of the project account with a narrative section
qualifying the project's operational and financial aspects. NBH assisted by
MEM and AGROBER would also prepare a project completion report to be submitted
to the Bank not later than six months after project closing date. Assurances
were given during negotiations on these reporting and monitoring requirements.
F. Environmental Impact
5.15     Existing regulations for environmental protection are acceptable to
the Bank. For each of the sub-projects an assurance has been given by
Government that all pertinent sub-projects would be reviewed for compliance
with pollution control guidelines as set by the National Water Authority for
liquid waste and the National Authority for Environmental Protection for air
pollution and solid waste. The slaughterhouses would have to meet national
guidelines for pollution control of the discharge of animal blood and meat
waste. The project would have a major impact on improving the environment
with the establishment of animal blood and feather processing units in the
southeastern part of the country which would gather blood from several
slaughterhouses; these firms are currently draining the waste blood into
rivers and burning feathers. The project would provide financing for about 27
high-moisture feedmills which would use meat pulp from slaughterhouses and
whey from dairy plants for mixing with high-moisture corn for pig feeding.
This technology would turn waste by-products into productive uses and halt
further pollution of the environment. In addition, the ultra-filtration milk
processing units would use fresh milk more efficiently in manufacturing cheese
and lessen the discharge of whey.
5.16     The proposed relocation of the enzyme and antibiotic plant of the
Phylaxia Company outside of Budapest would alleviate waste and air pollution
problems associated with these operations. Manure handling on the beef
feedlots, pig farms and dairy farms would be mechanized and the manure would
be recovered to spread on the fields of the producing farm or sold on the
local market as natural fertilizer. Approved dust control measures would be
designed in the rehabilitation of the feedmills and the feed concentrate plant
to protect workers' health and prevent grain dust explosions.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Financial Analysis
6.01     The project will derive financial benefits from the livestock
industry subsector mainly on account of: (a) incremental sales; (b) decrease
in operating cost due to technological innovation and more efficient use of
manpower; and (c) increased profitability deriving from a more etticient



- 30 -
management of current assets and a more balanced capital structure. In all
cases considered, the financial analysis of net incremental benefits indicates
that the proposed sub-projects are financially viable with comfortable debt
service coverage ratios and satisfactory financial rates of return (FRR)
ranging between 131 and 381. All subprojects would be undertaken by existing
enterprises and farms. The major financial indicators are sumnarized in the
table below:
FINANCIAL INDICAOPS OF SURPROJECTS
(Ft Million)
---------------…Incremental------------------___
Company                    Expected   Sales    Pre-tax  Current         Debt    Project  Foreign  Export            Financial        Eco-
Number   Revenue  Profit        Ratio    Service  Invest.         Ex-    Value    FRR    NPV 12S   nomi
of sub-    (1983)  (1983)   (1983)          Cov.        Cost   change        at               uSSN       ERR
borrowers                                   (1984)      (1984)              Cacac.
A.  Agroindustrial Enterorises
Slauk  terhouseS
maJau-Bihar meat Co (Debrecen)           4634      138        1.9          2.5      974        463      379      28        10.9       37
Szekszard Meat Co                        4096         -       3.3          -        283        157        -      17         1.7       23
Gyula meat Co                            6162      233        2.5          5.7      644        345      257      36        10.6       44
Kapuvar-Gyor-Sopron Meat Co              4428      204        2.9          5.8      539        277      175      24         3.7        30
Cegled-Pest-Nograd Meat Co               3480       86        2.0          1.4      968        529      734      16         2.8        17
miskolc Meat Co                          3245        78       2.5          2.1      208        165      739      29         2.8        36
Papa meat Co.                            4207      150        2.1          3.5      288        120      404      20         1.6       28
Mill s
Ory Feed Mill                   28       3388      157        3.5          1.5       38         28               13         0.1         16
High-Molsture Feed Mill         30       5535      255        4.1          1.7        6          4               30         0.1         38
Concentrate Feed Mill             1      2745      126        2.5          1.5      302       226                16         1.1         14
Dairy Trust                            33316       787        1.5         2.5       490       377        30       -         -            -
ULT Milk Plants                  5       1082       12       2.1          2.7        59        46                29         0.9        37
Ultra Filtering Plants           4      2895        59        1.6          1.5      297       297                38         1.4        42
Other CoManies
Phyla.ia Chemical Co                      706      155      13.0          2.5       388       307                32        9.8         37
Boscoop Agroindustry Co                  11S6       13       2.S          2.9        72        47                27         D.6        25
Grain Trust ATEV                          981       49        2.2          2.7        -          -                          -
Blood Rendering                             -         -       -            -         82         59               18         0.3        22
Feather Rendering                           -         -       -                     181        11S               13         0.1        17
B. Representative Subbarrowing Farms
Beef Farm
Nag, (Breeding)                 50        443       24        2.1          1.8       45         25               14         0.1        20
Paoac (Fattening)                6        528       64        2.4         3.3        65         19               25         0.8        29
vr1 V. Mihaly                   12        110       15       10.1          2.5       46         12               15         0.3         17
Pi_ Fa in
Szoede.                         32        168       19       10.9         4.3        39         15               19         0.5        27
SVeea ram
hajdunanas                      21        128       17        1.7         5.0        30          6               15         0.1         17
1037 C. 3



- 31 -
6.02     The project is expected to generate incremental sales revenue at full
development of about Ft 7,275 M (UStI45 M) and profit before -ax and
depreciation worth about Ft 1,285 M (US$25 M), benefitting about 170
beneficiaries ranging from farms to meat processing plants. It is also
expected to generate incremental tax revenue worth about US$13 M annually and
to introduce a more efficient use of manpower. In all cases, incremental cash
flow is estimated to be satisfactory, increasing substantially the
beneficiaries' self-financing capacity. This closely reflects the policy
advocated by the Government for the seventh five year plan, with regard to
increasing financial independence of enterprises. As indicated in para. 2.13,
Government is subsidizing consumers to enable them to purchase inexpensive
milk and dairy products. The Government confirmed at negotiations its policy
that there would be no net increase in the present total amount of subsidies
going to the dairy subsector and that Government would not exceed the total
amount of current forints spent on subsidies beyond the 1984 level to
producers and consumers and, over time, would reduce the subsidies to dairy
farmers and consumers. Table 4 shows the dairy pricing structure of fresh
milk and ultra-high temperature milk.
6.03     In general, the financial situation of a sample of possible project
beneficiaries is satisfactory from the standpoint of creditworthiness.
Current ratios of the agroindustrial beneficiaries in almost all cases are
above the 2:1 standard. The debt service coverage ratio, averaging 2.5,
indicates satisfactory levels of financial resources to meet current and long
term financial obligations. Pretax profits averaging 3-4% of sales revenue,
compare positively with other efficient agroindustrial concerns operating in
the country. In Hungary, however, as is the case in other centrally planned
economies, the financial management of enterprises does not always directly
reflect corporate interests. Hence, the level of inventories is often high
reflecting concern for shortage of spare parts and material supplies; this
problem is forther compounded by the inefficiency of the market for spare
parts and iaput supplies. Accounts receivable are excessively high as such
accounts are transacted by the NBS and often subject to excessive delays in
payments. This often results in unnecessary high financial costs to the
enterprises. Likewise, the capital structure of enterprises does not directlv
reflect cost of capital considerations. Most project enterprises are not
acutely affected by these financial shortcomings as are many other firms.
B. Production
6.04     As shown in the table below, estimated incremental capacity of
feedmills due to the project investment would be 742,000 tons of finished feed
equivalent to about 15% of total installed capacity in the country; there are
virtually no high-moisture feedmills in the country. Project investment would
convert existing feedmills into nigh-moisture mills which would considerably
decrease operating costs but would not increase total feed throughput.
Capacity for bloodneal processing would be increased by 3.5 times while modern
feathermeal processing does not currently exist. incremental onfarm
production cf pigs, beef, cattle and sheep due to the project in -stimated to
be about 1.6% of the actual national output for 1983.  Tte present trend of
small scale farmers moving out of dairy production combined with lesser



- 32 -
increase in large scale farms indicates a global reduction of the national
dairy herd. The present milk production can therefore only be maintained and,
possibly, slightly increased through a gradual increase in milk yield per cow
with the objective of reaching an overall annual average of 5,000 liters per
animal. Current national milk output sold off the farm is about 2.7 million
tons derived from about 675,000 dairy cows at an average milk yield of 4,000
kg per animal. If current trends continue, within ten years Hungary would
still be producing about 2.7 million tons but from a reduced herd of about
540,000 cows yielding an average annual output of 5,000 kg of milk. This is
baseo on the continued shift, observed in the last ten years, from a decrease
in the cow herd in the small scale sector to an increase in the large scale
sector, but in the aggregate the total herd is expected to decrease. The net
incremental production of milk due to the project is estimated to be about
16,000 tons to 20,000 tons per annum at full development; this amount of milk
would be equivalent to about 3,000 tons of white cream cheese. Project
investment would also finance slaughterhouse capacity of an additional 72,300
tons of processed meat and products in seven plants. This would be about a
20% increase over existing capacity in those particular slaughterhouses.  And
in the dairy plants, the installation of five ultra-high temperature units
would increase the national capacity to provide high-temperature milk by 3.6
times. Ultra-filtration of milk in manufacturing cheese, dessert curds and
other dairy products would double the installed capacity.
C. Markets
6.05     Hungary has well-established markets for some of the commodities to
be produced under the project and is expected to penetrate and, eventually, to
expand its share in new markets (para. 3.14). Market strategy is being
reviewed in an international market study being carried out by GIRA of
Switzerland for the meat and dairy industry; while preliminary results have
confirmed the market availability for Hungarian exports of project products,
the final study is scheduled to be completed at the end of April 1985 and will
include recommendations for penetration of new markets. Furthermore, the
project would provide funds to make market contacts, consumer surveys,
advertising and sales promotions. Annex 2 shows those geographical areas
which provide established and potential markets for specific commodities
produced under the project. Incremental meat and cheese production from the
project would be placed on export markets because of:
(a)  strong competitiveness in quality and relative prices compared to
Hungary's c,mpetitors;
(b)  well-researched ideas on markets where the structural import
requirement is growing; and
(c)  the existence of a well-prepared program to establish a
well-structured production and marketing policy which is expected to
result in the development of products for specific market niches.



- 33 -
Estimated Incremental Production or Capacity Due to
Project Investment
Current           Increment
Increment due to    National    as X of    as X of
Project at full      production  national    plant
development        or plant   production  capacity
capacity
---tons '000-------------
I. Animal Feed Livestock
Input Supply
Dry feedmills                  742          5,000            15.0        -
High-moisture feedmills        350               -            -
Bloodmeal processing            14               4            3.5 times  -
Feathermeal processing          20               -           -
II. Onfarm Production
Pigs/Pork                 21.0/15.0    1,220/872              1.7
Feeder cattle/Beef         5.9/3.8        454/292             1.3
Fat steers/Beef            3.6/2.3        360/238             1.0
Sheep/Mutton                3.2/2.5         49/39            6.5
Cow milk/Cheese            18.0/3.0     2,659/443             0.7
III. Agroindustry
Slaughter houses           72.3                367           -          20
Debrecen                  14.8                  40           -          37
Cegled                    28.0                   -           -           -
Gyula                      9.4                  68           -          14
Szekszard                  -                    70            -          -
Kapuvar                    5.1                  63            -          8
Miskolc                   10.6                  60            -         18
Papa                       4.4                  66           -           7
Dairy Plants
Ultra-high temperature
milk                    60                    16.7         -    3.6 times
Ultra-filtration milk    36                     18.0               2.0 times
D. Prices
6.06     Table 5 shows the list of financial and economic prices which was
used in the analysis of the project. These prices were taken durinig the
appraisal mission of mid-1984 from farms and agroindustries c-xpected to



- 34 -
participate in the project and confirmed by the technical staff of AGROBER;
appropriate price information was taken from the Bank's Division of Commodity
Studies and Projections.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION kND RISKS
A. Benefits
General
7.01     Project benefits would come from increased quantity and quality of
production of meat and cheese and the increase in exports of the commodities
to convertible currency markets. Net foreign exchange earnings derived from
onfarm production due to the project are estimated at about US$50 million
annually which is about 82 of the existing revenues gained from exports of
these commodities and an additional US$8 million annually in import
substitution of animal feed and feed additives. The project would account for
about 2,240 jobs of incremental employment as well as a reduction in unit
costs of production through the use of labor-saving practices, modern
machinery and functionally-designed buildings. Considerable savings would
also be realized in the use of energy and the use of agroindustrial waste
materials. Pollution would be reduced through the productive processing of
animal blood and feathers and the relocation of the antibiotic and enzymes
plant.
Beneficiaries
7.02     The beneficiaries of the project would be the large state farms and
cooperatives a'd t;_ qeroindustries participating in the project.  These
institutions would be substantially strengthened in terms of their financial
position and their technical level of production which would enable them to
supply high quality products on their foreign and domestic markets. It would
also permit these firms to provide better working conditions and greater
benefits to their workers.
Technology Transfer
7.03     At the farm level, the project would provide for an upgraded level of
technology in the following areas: (a) wet-feeding of pigs including
high-moisture feedmills with their corresponding liquid transport system
instead cf the traditional system of feeding dried grains; (b) improved
marginal grasslands for grazing of sheep and beef cows; (c) side-by-side,
herringbone milking parlors with loose housing instead of milking cows tied in
stanchions; and (d) upgrading the dairy herd management and the hygienic
practices required to achieve hygienic milk. At the agroindustrial level., the
project would provide upgraded technology for the following: (a) modernizing
and upgrading seven existing slaughterhouses in line with USDA and EEC
standards; (b) introducing on a commercial scale ultra-high temperature milk
to large urban areas; (c) using the ultra-filtration method of processing milk
more et iciently into cheese; and (d) providing modern blood and feather
renderit- faci-lities to manufacture animal protein.



- 35 -
Institution Building
7.04     The Ministry of Foreign Trade has taken steps under the project to
identify new markets for the incremental output produced due to project
investment and to finance marketing services which would strengthen the
existing export marketing system for processed meat and cheese. Training
would be provided under the project for managers of slaughterhouses in the
organization of labor and in the use of modern equipment; also licenses and
"know-how" would be purchased by these agroindustries. In some cases,
financial restructuring of enterprises would occur which would enable
beneficiaries to increase profits.
B. Economic Analysis
7.05     Quantified benefits include incremental production of animals on the
farms, increased throughput capacity in agroindustries and cost savings of
operations due to the investment. New agro-processing units installed by the
project include modern blood and feather rendering facilities and
high-moisture feed mills. Nine dairy processing plants would introduce
relatively new developments on a commercial scale with the expansion of their
facilities with ultra-filtration milk and ultra-high temperature milk. Modern
designs for feed mills and the antibiotics and enzymes factory would produce
better quality products.
7.06     Economic costs included in the analysis are all the net incremental
operating costs at the farm and ag:oindustry level and the investment costs
net of taxes, subsidies and transfer payments but inclusive of physical
contingencies. The average economic life of the project components was
estimated to be 15 years, during which the appropriate replacement investment
was assigned to the cost streams for calculation of the ERR and NPV. Research
and training costs were included in the economic analysis as the completion of
those tasks was considered necessary for achieving increased benefits on the
sheep, beef-raising and dairy farms. Marketing costs allocated to the project
are also included. The economic cost of labor was calculated as the financial
cost less social security charges. No shadow price was assigned to foreign
exchange because the quoted rate was considered to reflect the real value.
7.07     Economic prices are based on border prices for all traded products
and reflect the average border prices of 1978 to 1983 which modified problems
of commodity price cycles. These average prices were then adjusted to US
dollars denominated in 1984 terms. Traded inputs have also been valued at
their border price; these inputs were energy costs, electricity, diesel fuel,
corn and a vaziety of feed concentrates for calves, pigs, and lambs.
7.08     Project investment in the onfarm development of dairy production is
limited to only rehabilitation and does not extend to new farms because the
net present value due to capital investment is considerably greater on the
existing farms. In most cases, large dairy farms have their herd spread among
two or three units of the farm; under the project, they would consolidate
these herds of about 800 head into one unit. The principal objective of the
investment would be to decrease unit production costs by modernizing farm
buildings and equipment and by reducing manpower use from ten cows per worker



- 36 -
to twenty; the project would also increase milk yields per cow per lactation
from about 4,800 liters per lactation to about 6,500 liters by better feeding
practices. The prices used in the economic analysis are based on the border
price of powder milk and butter oil imported from New Zealand. By including
the cost of recombining the powder milk and butter oil to make liquid milk and
increasing the cost by 5% as a quality and taste difference, the economic
price to the producer of raw milk is estimated to be about 18% higher than the
actual financial price received by farmers in Hungary. Furthermore,
incremental production of fresh milk produced on the farms or saved through
the investments in dairy plants would be converted into white cream cheese for
export. Since white cream cheese is not sold on the Hungarian market and no
comparison could be made between the border price and domestic price, raw milk
was used as a proxy to derive the economic price. The onfarm dairy model
indicated an ERR of 17% with a switching value for total revenues of 23%; the
ultra-filtration milk processing model indicates an ERR of 42% and an
switching value for total costs of 90%. Hungary is competitive in the world
market in the export of white cream cheese as it receives more foreign
exchange per unit of cheese marketed abroad than it costs in terms of border
prices to produce a unit of white cream cheese in the country.
7.09     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was
calculated to be 24% and the net present value (NPV) was calculated to be
US;112 million. This is an aggregate rate for all project components. The
ERR and NPV of groups of project components and their corresponding
sensitivity analysis are shown below:
Switching values
Activities                                    ERR      NPV               Total
%   US$ million   Costs   Benefits
Feedinill and input Supply                     23        17         3         -3
Onfarm Development                             22        41        47        -32
Slaughterhouses                                30       42          9         -8
Dairy Plants                                   40        12        71        -42
Total                                      24      112         10         -9
The sensitivity analysis indicates that the feedmill and input supply
components and the slaughterhouse components are sensitive to changes in
project benefits and costs.  This phenomenon is not uncommon to
agro-industrial enterprises whereby their total operating costs are
overwhelmingly dominated by the cost of the raw material such as is the case
of the corn, wheat and sunflower and soybean meal for feedmills and of the
live animals for the slaughterhouses. It is highly unlikely that these
project components would counter unacceptable FRRs and NPVs because they would
pass along to the retailers or exporters any increase in the price of the raw
material. In the case of government determined prices, the margins required
by agrc-processing firms to cover all costs plus normal proEits are determined
prior to a change in those particular prices.



- 37 -
C. Risks
7.10     One of the principal risks inherent in the project is that
international markets for project commodities may be found at prices lower
taan estimated by the appraisal mission. The risk has been minimized by
making a conservative assessment of market opportunities and carrying out
special studies of the market for Hungarian products during the preparation
phase of the project. In addition, particular attention has been directed to
improving export marketing services. If there is a particularly long lag in
penetrating markets in the convertible currency markets, surplus goods can be
sold to the USSR and Eastern Bloc countries on barter terms or with partial
payments in convertible currency. Hungary is well located to service a
variety of different markets. Another possible risk is the effectiveness of
the agricultural research program to arrive at useful commercial packages of
technology in marginal grassland improvement, dairy hygiene, beef cattle
development and wet-feeding of pigs. Plans seem reasonable but there may be
some delays in the transmission and application of the practical results of
research.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  NBH would make counterpart funds available for financing project
works and equipment in a timely manner according to the agreed
financing plan (para. 4.14);
(b)  procurement procedures would be carried out in accordance with
conditions in paras (4.15-4.19);
(c)  the disbursement procedure agreed under the loan would be followed by
NBH (para. 4.20);
(d)  the Research Institute of Agricultural Economics would present to the
Bank by December 1986 a study to determine the causes of
inefficiencies in the livestock and agroindustry subsectors and to
make recommendations on a set of economic policies required to
increase efficiencies at the farm and enterprise level and on a
package of technology which could be incorporated in the existing
system of producing and processing livestock and products
(para. 5.04);
(e)  Ministry of Agriculture would present to the Bank at the end of each
calendar year, beginning December 1985, information on changes in
agricultural and food industry policy which were either formulated or
carried out during that year with special attention to export policy
measures concerning processed meat and cheese (para. 5.04);



- 38 -
(f) expatriate consultants would be hired as agreed for design and
engineering, work, supervision of equipment installation and training
in project slaughterhouses and for research and training in
agriculture (para. 5.05);
(g) the interest rate charged to subborrowers would not be less than the
Bank's lending rate plus 30% on the Bank-financeu portion of the
subloan and, on the non-Bank portion of th- 'ubloan, positive real
interest rates and the same maturities applicable to the
Bank-financed portion would be maintained at all times (para. 5.07);
(h) subborrowers would contribute a minimum of 20% of subproject cost in
the form of equity (para 5.08);
(i) repayment of subloans, not needed for the repayment of the Bank loan,
would be uti'lized by NBR to finance capital investments in
agricultural development (para. 5.08);
(j) all subprojects would have financial rates of return of at least 12%
to be eligible for subloans (para. 5.09);
(k) the lending conditions of NBH for project subloans would follow those
set down in para. 5.09;
(1) one subloan evaluation each for beef, dairy, pig and sheep farm
development, feedmill rehabilitation, and for modernization of the
Szekzard Meat Company and the Phylaxia Company would be sent to the
Bank for review prior to the subloan approval (para. 5.10);
(m)  NBH would furnish to the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year a report by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.12);
(n) NBH would send to the Bank a detailed semi-annual progress report on
the project (para. 5.14);
(o)  Government would prepare a project completion report not later than
six months after project closing date (para. 5.14); and
(p) regarding Government's policy on subsidies, there would be no net
increase in current terms in the present total amount of subsidies
going to the dairy subsector and that Government would not exceed the
total amount of current Forints spent on subsidies beyond the 1984
level to producers and consumers and, over time, would reduce the
subsidies to dairv farmers and consumers (para. 6.02).
8.02     With the above assurances and conditions, the Integrated Livestock
Industry Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of USM80 million with
repayment over 15 vears including a grace period of three vears. Retroactive
financing o; up to US$200,000 (para. &.14) and th.e establishment of a
Revolving Fund of US$6 million (para. 4.22) are recomnecded under the proposed
loan. The project completion date will be December 31, 1989.
1039E



HUNGARY
INTEGRAlED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJELI
Project Components bu Year
Totals Ir.cluding Contingencies                          Totals Including Contingencies
(FT '000)                                                (USt '000)
1986        1987         1988        1989       Total         1986       1987       1988     1989    Total
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF BEEF FARMS            515.958,S   629,996.5   130,069.2  90,715.6  1,366%739.8   10,319.2  12,599.9  2.601.4  1,814.3  27,334,B
BEEF FATTENING FEEDLOTS                               137P639.0   230,158.1    88,196.8            -    455,993.9    2,752.8   4.603.2  10763#9           -   9,119.9
REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF PIG FARHS             432,477.0 1.035,005,0   665469.2  55,516.0  2,186,467.2    8t649,5  20,700,1 13,309.4  1,110.3  43,769.3
REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF SHEEP FARMS           351,43B.9   386,589.1    63,743.0  31,377.5    833,148.5    7,028.8   7,731.8  1i274.9    627,6  16,663,0
REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF DAIRY FARMS          319,266,4   498,053.1   246,608.6 117,218.2  1,181,146.3    6.385,3   9,961.1  4,932.2  2,344,4  23,622.9
Sub-Total LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION                         1,756,779.7 2,779,801.9 1.194,086.8 294,827.3  6,025,495.7   35,135,6  55,596.0 23s881.7  5)896.5 120,509.9
B. RESEARCH AlND TRAINING
HERCEGHALON ANIHAL NUTRITION RESEARCH CENTER           62,173.0      3,540.1            -          -     65,713.1    1,243.5        70.8         -        -   1,314.3
GOIIOLLO LIVESTOCK MANAGEMEENT RESEARCH CENTER        293.730,8    33,622.8             -          -    327,353,6    5,874,6       672.5         -        -   66547,1
SZARVAS GRASSLAND MANAGEMENT RESEARCH CENTER           99,970.2    100454.6       8,438.8   2,546.8    121,410.3    1,999.4        209.1    168.8      50.9   2,428,2
REINFORCEMENIT OF LIYESTOCK SERVICES                  117,710.6        60087            -          -    118,319.3    2,354.2        12.2         -        -   2,366,4
IMPROVEMENT OF LARGE SCALE FARM MANAGEMENT             16,374.9      6,012.7        517.7          -     22.905.3       327.5      120.3     10.4         -     458.1
Sub-Total RESEARCH AND TRAINING                          589,959.5    54,238.9       8,956.5   2,546.8    655,701.7   11,799,2   1,084.8    179.1         50.9  13,114.0
C. AGROINIIUSTRY
MEAT PROCESSING                                     1,526,817.9 1,451,639.1 2,115,493.5 541,723.3  5,635,673.8   30,S36.4  29,032.8 42,309.9 10.834,5 112,713.5
DAIRY PROCESSING                                      438P967.8   368,011.6             -          -    806,979.3    8,779.4   7,360.2           -        -  16,139.6
RENDERING PLANTS                                       76,672.6   205,145.6             -          -    281,B18.3    1,533,5   4P102.9           -        -   5,636.4
FEED INDUSTRY                                         741,947.7 1.410.160.2   4/,1h53.2            -  2.629,261.1   14*839.0  28E203.2  9,543.1           -  52.585.2
MARKETING                                             11P0996.8    66,489.7    47,943.6            -    225,430.1    2,219.9   1,329.8    958.9           -   4,508.6
SJb-7TOta1 AGROINPUSTRY                                2,895,402.7 3,501,446.1 2b640,590.3 541,723.3  9,579,l62,4   57,908.1  70,028.9 52,811.8 10,834.5 191,583.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      5,242.141.9 6,335,486.9 3,843,633.6 839,097.5 16,260,359.8  104,842.8 1267009.7 76,872.7 16,781.9 325,207.2
Februarv 19. 198'  10:23



INTIM1ATED  LIE1T     I0IWIIT F9ICT
5*sdrw Attt ba Pro.t Cuuwwnt
III '0OO)
tUwsTO  mlCIIa                                      IOQ9S  COLD  SITYS
~---    - +^------------- --- -------------*  -------- -- ----------  --------------- ----------I-IT-r------5R
LIYESTDM  PRWXIIN                     16=~391AL.  LIWIOC    IzmISlUlM 3lfAIM
EIWILITATIOA      OtU      P141121A1101N   WWIILITATIWO   IEWILITATIOS    1UtRITI1   M TNAV1  AMEVIT KifORIo-ENI OF  LARK  WM- . ...........
NS  FfVA NSIO     FFATTEING N   E12NSleN or AM V177 SION Mcr N    (DM 0  or  R           4N OF    tSEA( RES3N1     0S0 4  LIITI             rAT                            MilF   3116IY1N
Ur  rAs       FTEKOTs      PIG rFm          SW    F WIGS     MIRY F.M           CENTER      cEMn        CErm         SuYIs          IWAiEII         EA  nnwSSIOm  r in      i   n     r m FMa ZSTUT   l.A12K          1.1.1
..............* n. .........fl: ............. .. I ............. . . ........ .   ...             .......................................... -        .a ........:.....n........                                      _
1. IMTENI ECSls
. ..... ..... .
CIYII  MS                                      1353104.6 1871136.7         31.12.0           '86020.          387,103.2      2.577.7  119443.1   24091.1            2x1M..                         11321i142.t   21,147.7  81*12.2       23-3*31.1         -   3.722n..
1IY100110                                      465*400.0 152.755,2          23,10.5           37,23.9         122,235.2             -   25*425.6    2*040.0                 -              -                 -           -         -             -          -    3711.5
PIsumi No       r i i*stAiL                    756.3510           -                -          55,27.6          29,97.5                  10-311.5    2,063.1           1,040.0               *                            -         -             -                324W5?.7
SlIlTmh                                         74.010.7  29,762.7         112,192.2         211S5.6         1334,215.0             -          -          -                 -              -         54903.1   10.10.2  31,14.5          W77I7W.I          -   2.492211.9
(IjIMulE   Itfi(                               200257.5           -        415,174.2          £1,17.7          32157,7       4.72U4.2  107,713,1   49,497.0          6.470.5        11.22.3        2.12.e50.6  515042.0  ".9 .2          m9 .46.1               4.6991771.0
1n106CM  ASSISTlM                                  204.7       31.1            029.2             111.2            3n.6       3,58.1            - 1*1u539              12759.7        7,02.1          217'93.1   27,174.    5il,1          26,913.?   3 47 1 M.4    503t.43.1
---------       -----     -------- ... - . -------   - -   -  --  _, -     ---  -  -    _-   ---    __,,,,    ,, -_ -----     ,-_ - -----     ---   - -_--  _-_ -----
Total IMITIENET COSTS                           1-110.105.5 3,69.614        135.               664               911,72.2       543911.6  230M.2    6974.1                3s57.2       151371.5       4,245703.3  £44135.1 220.60.6   20557.9 193,3.4  120647.1
It. KfM6w    COIls
A. 5L*IIES 
olate] MI      CllTErS                           1110.103.1 3691dw.6 4      1.6636.s4.1          5629.           911,722.2      54i.116  263M.092   96,974.1             96.157.2      16011.1         4,245,703.3  644,1331 220.0.6  2,0351847.9  132 .4  12.5 4,117.I
Pt*viil CMtI*rsrc*n                             64450.1  21,.n9            163I4D7.1          61,807.4         n1537.3        4.904.5  311.64.2   10n7243            10,91.6         191.37.2        174. n4.6   61,2M.1  21313.2        1940313.I          -   l,l#.00k.3
Punt  Cwt,in                                    1972.414.2  64,615.6        361.406.1         214,972.4        190377.3       6,420.0  32174.2   13721.?              20.990.6        2.696,6       205.05.3  101,160.5  40.019.5          M3959.3  312444.A   217n7*M2
Tot.l P Ct COSTS                                I2366 73.3 0559n3.9          2.91417.2            3 48.1         11l1.146.3      £1723.1  127.32;53    121.410.3        l119.3          22,90 725.3    S.633     .1 8U.979.3 281111.3   2629P261.1 225,430.8  16,264W.3
-s .....  ....... 21t sZzX  ssaa:::-? -::ssts: ....          zr: z s...   =z.......  . ::zz .....  ...... . s- .  -sss ...........          -ss- .sa:X:                                            ... 4-z  s :  --
Tams                                            103,13.3 1*1.077.0          731l1M.2          2425241.5        135*437.5     13.760.2   3*920.7   24.111.4            79591.5         5103.2        1.002.317.2   45,315.2  47397.0       5307M2.t           -   3,14M521.0
Fonvit  Exclare                                 121962.9  43I39.0           713,130.3          0 34341.0       435.300.2    02.5253.  1470411.9   7361.2              651121.3       17.306.        3120051.4  619.21831 124.1`6.        . I.20,4695 112363.1   2*401.983.
....................... .. ..............  ........... _... _ ........... . ... .. ..... ..... ................ .................... .. . ....................... . ....... .....................
rFbuwu   1ts IM5  10:24
1-
Sz



STAFF APPRA16AL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC
INTEGRA ED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Di3bur3ements of Bank Loan
IBRD                                      -----------Bank Disbursement---------          Relevant Disbursement Profiles
Fiscal   Semester   Endings              By End of                     Cumulative            (C.mjlatlon X Disbursed)
Year                                      Semester    Cumulative    Disbursed            --Bank wide-----        Romania
Lives-   Agricul-  Agriculture
tock       ture
---USS Millions---           --------          --------------X---
1985        June          1985                -                -           0               -            -           -
1986        Dec.          1985                6.2              6.2         8
June         1986                 3.3              9.5        12               4            3          10
1987        Dec.          1986 (end PYI)    9.5               19.0        24
June         1987                12.5             31.5        39              19           16          39
1988        Dec.          1987 (end PY2)    12.5              44.2        55                                                                       I
Jujne        1988                10.4            54.4         68              39          36           69
1989        Dec.          1988 (end PY3)    8.6               63.0        79
June         1989                 7.4             70.4        88              59          58           89
1990        Dec.          1989 (end PY4)      5.8             72.2        95
June         1990                 2.3             78.5        98              77          76           99
1991        Dec.          1990 (end PYS)      1.5             80.0       100                                      100
June         1991                                                             90          89
1992        Dec.          1991 (end PY6)
June         1992                 -                                           98          98
1993        Dec.          1992 (end PY7)                                                 100          100
Number of ProJects                                                                        37           48          17
Expected Date of Signature:         March 1985
Expected Oate of Effectiveness: June 1985
Expected Completion Date:           December 1989 B
Expected Closing Date:              December 1990
1037E



- 42 -                          Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Dairy Pricing Structure of Fresh Milk
and Ultra-high Temperature Milk
Ultra-high
Pasteurized       temperature
fresh milk           milk
…-------   Ft/liter---------…
Retail Price                                      8.00              10.00
Retailers margin                                  0.68              0.86
Price to pasteurizing plant                       7.32              9.14
Subsidy                                       1.73              1.33
Subsidized price to plant                         9.05              10.47
Distribution cost of other dairies a/                                 .48
Income of plant for extra
butter oil  b/                                  0.60                .60
Total Income to plant                             9.65              10.59
Spread for plant to cover cost c/                 2.65               3_.9
Price to farmer dl                                7.00               7.0'.
Subsidy                                      2.00                2.00
Total income to farmer                            9.00               9.00
a/ Distribution cost of other dairies which would also use their sales
outlets to market UHT milk.
b/ Pricing system is based on a butter fat content of milk at farmer level of
3.6% and at retail !evel to consumers of 2.8%.
c/  Spread to cover overhead at pasteurizing plant including processing,
tranport and profit.
d/ Price to farmer is first grade milk, which is the highest price paid of
four milk categories.
Note:    Data in the table include retail price increases introduced on
January 21, 1985. Prior to that date, the retail price was Ft 6.2
per liter for pasteurized milk and Ft 7.8 per liter for Ultra-high
temperature milk.
1037E p.12



- 43 -                           Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices Used in Project Analysis
(In mid-1984 Prices)
Economic
Unit   Financial    Conversion   Price Long
Price        Factor        Term
Fts                        Fts
Farm & Agroidustry Products
Beef cattle, liveweight              kg         52.00         1.30        67.52
Pigs, liveweight                     kg         40.51         1.42        57.37
TL s, 56 days, liveweight            kg         86.00         1.05        89.88
Lambs, 160 days, liveweight          kg         60.00         1.04        62.40
Cow milk to farmers                  it          9.0          1.18        10.62
Beef hindquartes                     kg        109.11         1.0        109.11
Pig sides                            kg         87.75         1.0         87.75
Mutton                               kg        171.45         1.0         171.45
White cream cheese                   kg         84.49         1.0         84.49
Sheep cheese                         kg        169.05         1.0        169.05
Farm & Agroindustry Inputs
Calf concentrate                     kg          5.88         2.32        13.63
Milking cow ^oncentrate              kg          7.33         1.33          9.77
Reconstituted milk for calves        kg          9.46         1.01          9.53
Cattle fattener concentrate          kg          6.47         1.68        10.84
Corn                                 mt          3.600        1.96          7.051
Pig concentrate                      kg          5.88         2.77        16.27
Ewe premix                           kg          7.33         1.29         9.46
Lamb starter concentrate             kg          9.46         1.08        10.19
Lamb fattener concentrate            kg          5.88         1.51         8.87
Diesel fuel                          kg         11.01         1.48        16.26
Natural gas                          m3          4.03         1.88          7.58
Electricity-Agriculture             kwh          2.02        0.99          1.99
Eelctricity-Agroindustry            kwh          1.40         1.42         1.99
Wages                            per mo.       120.00         0.83       100.00
Cow milk to dairy plants             it          7.00         1.52        10.62
Fertilizers: Nitrogen                kg          8.60         1.30        11.18
Phosphate              kg          8.50         1.30        11.05
Potassium              kg          3.40         1.30         4.92
Investment costs
Civil works                                      1.00        0.962         0.962
Equipment                                        1.00        0.798         0.798
1037E p. 6



ANNEX 1
Page 1
- 44 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF AGROINDUSTRIAL SUBPROJECTS
Gyula Meat Company
1.       The Gyula Meat Company was established in the 1930s as a sausage
factory in the eastern part of Hungary in an area which has a tradition of
cattle raising. In 1974, a large slaughterhouse was constructed with an
annual capacity of 650,000 pigs and 25,000 cattle. Currently, the
slaughterhouse has a processing plant with an annual liveweight capacity of
62,000 million tons/year. The firm's major market is Budapest where it
primarily sells carcass meat and sausages, but it also exports about
40,000 million tons of carcasses and processed meat including sausages; total
sales were US$154 million in 1983. Sales have increased on an average of 7%
per year over the past three years. The company's pretax profit in 1983 was
US$5.8 million. it is in a sound financial position with a 5.7 debt service
coverage ratio, a 2.5 current ratio, and a debt to equity ratio of .01/1.
Hence, the company could comfortably use long term borrowing for future
capital investment. The management of the slaughterhouse is experienced and
well qualified and manages a labor force of about 2,000. The firm is
organized into four operating departments and three support departments:
accounting, technical services and economics. The Meat Trust carries out
medium-and long-range production and sales planning for the company.
2.       The proposed investment would finance the establishment of a
5,000-million tons-capacity cold storage unit and modernization of their
processing and packaging facilities which would be used primarily for export
commodities. Total sub-project cost 1/ is estimated to be US$11.7 million of
which US$7 million would be the foreign exchange costs. Implementation would
take place over a two year period with full capacity production at the end of
the third year. The Bank Loan would finance the direct foreign exchange
requirements or abcut 60% of sub-project cost. The Gyula Meat Company would
contribute 30% of investment cost under the form-of equity and NBH would
finance the balance with a local currency long-term loan.
3.       Incremental benefits would provide the firm with a highly salable
line of production that would be exported because of its quality and
compliance with international hygienic standards.  Revenues from commodities
exported due to subproject investment would be about US$6 million p.a. after
depreciation of imported machirnery; this would allow foreign exchange
reimbursements to NEH well within their credit guideline requirements of four
years. The sub-project would generate incremental orof_ts after financial
costs and depreciation of abDout US$'3. Q million, at full capacity, and have a
2.3 debt service coverage ratio, which would be adequate to make the
enterprise financially self-supporting.
1/ Investment cost estimates for all sub-projects are based cost plus
physical contingencies of about 10%, quoted in mid 1984 prices.



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                           Page 2
Hajdu-Bihar Meat Company in Debrecen
4.       This enterprise grew out of its predecescor know as the Debrecen
Livestock Distribution and Meat Industry Company which was established in
1894. The company presently ranks 5th in terms of sales among the 23
slaughterhouses associated with the Meat Trust. It operates a slaughter and
meat processing plant in Debrecen and a pig fattening farm with a capacity of
20,000 animals in the town of Polgar, located about 57 km from Debrecen. The
Company's main products are pork, beef, meat products and fats. In 1983, the
firm operated at about 90% capacity and processed about 40,000 million tons of
meat including about 300,000 pigs and about 23,000 cattle. About 50% of the
company's sales revenue (US$108 million) was derived from export sold mainly
(95%) to the EEC and Spain.  Seventy percent of the company's internal market
is in Hajdu Bihar County and the remainder sold in Budapest. The company also
exports about 15,000 live pigs and 7,000 live cattle per year to the USSR.
Lack of adequate cold storage facilities prevents it from substantially
increasing its export sales revenue through better quality products and higher
inventories. The project would increase production of dressed meat by
5,400 milion tons, for an estimated value of US$19 million. The company's
management is capable and experienced and employs 1,500 workers, 75% of which
are mostly skilled manual workers evenly divided between slaughtering and
processing activities. The company is in a sound firnancial position with a
2.5 debt service ratio and a small amount of long-terni debt; however, the
management of short-term assets needs improvement.  The 1983 income statement
shows a 17% increase in sales revenue over 1982, but it also shows a 60%
increase in inventories, 71% increase in accounts receivable, and 44% increase
in short term borrowing. Net profits were 3% of sales revenue.
5.       Sub-project development would rehabilitate and expand slaughtering
and processing facilities. It would also finance incremental cold storage
capacity of about 2,000 million tons. Total sub-project cost in 1984 prices
is estimated at US$18.7 million, of which about 47% would be direct foreign
exchange required to finance ICB procurement. Implementation would take place
over three years with full capacity to be reached at the end of the fourth
year. The Bank loan would finance the direct foreign exchange requirements
and the company would cover about 30% of project cost under the form of equity
contribution and NBH would finance the balance.
6.       The sub-project investment would cause substantial increases in the
export sales revenue of about US$8 millicn at full capacity.  The sub-project
would generate incremental profits before taxes of about US$5 million, which
would enable it to pay back foreign exchange requirements in about two years.
Kapuvar-Gyor Sopron County M1ea. Comany
7.       The Livestock Distribution and Neat industrv ComRIany of Gyor-Sopron
county was founded in 1959 by the merger of two existing companies. It
operates four meat plants among whicli the Kapuvaar siaughterhouse, for which
investment is sought under the project, cuerates a breediiig and pig fattening
farm. The main products produced in the slaughterhouse are processed beef and
pig products including dry sausages and canned meat for export. in 1983, the
company, through its four plants, slaughtered 530,000 pigs and 20,000 beef



- 46 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 3
cattle for an aggregate output of about 54,000 million tons of meat products.
About 40% of the 1983 revenue from sales was derived from exports, which were
US$42 million mainly to EEC markets with some canned and foiled packed bacon
and ham to the US. The largest part of their internal market is in the
surrounding Gyor Sopron County with the balance of domestic sales taking place
in Budapest. The proposed sub-project would rehabilitate slaughtering and
cold storage facilities (1,000-million-tons capacity) of the company's
export-oriented Kapuvar plant, which is located close to the Austrian border.
The proposed investment would increase export of ham shoulders, bacon and
dressed meat and improve its marketability by providing improved product
packaging. The company is creditworthy as its capital structure consists
mostly of equity and its debt service coverage ratio is 5.8. Its profits
before taxes increased by about 25% in 1983 over 1982. The company plans to
improve the management of current assets in order to keep a satisfactory level
of profitability.
8.       The total sub-project cost is estimated at US$9.4 million about 50%
of which is directly imported equipment. Project implementation, including
the establishment of cold storage, would take three years, with full capacity
to be reached in the fourth year. Bank funds would finance foreign exchange
requirements while the company would finance the remainder through equity
contribution and a long-term loan from NBH.
9.       The project would increase the company export sales revenue by about
US$8.7 million at full capacity which would allow the repayment of foreign
exchange requirements to NBH in about two years. It would also generate about
US$2 million profit before taxes and a tax revenue of about US$0.9 million.
Szekszard Meat Company
10.      The company is situated in the southern part of Hungary in Tolna
county, which is one of the most productive pig and cattle raising areas in
the country. About 55% of its production with an estimated value of about
US$50 million is exported to both eastern and western countries. Principal
exports are dressed beef, quartered beef, pork quarters, and canned bacon
which are virtually all paid for in convertible currencies. The construction
of the present slaughtering and processing facilities was completed in 1981.
Various problems, including faulty plant design and indecisive management,
delayed plant commissioning by about two years from the scheduled dates. In
1984, the company recruited an experienced and forceful general manager and a
skilled financial manager to improve plant productivity and financial
efficiency. It presently employs 2,300 person, 1,800 of which are manual
laborers and the rest skilled workers and administrative personnel. Most of
the personnel is being retrained and a new management information system is
being introduced with a use of computers to help improve operations. The
company is in a difficult financial situation as it has never been endowed
with its own capital since it began operating in 1981. Its fixed assets were
financed with a State Developmenit Bank loan, which still has about US$60
million outstanding. Hence, the financial burden to the company is high and
its financial statements show that iLs losses (US$10 million in 1983) and
short-term liabilities are increasing more than proportionally to its sales
volume. After a detailed review of the company's financial situation with the
NBH, the Meat Trust and the company's management, the intervention of the
country's financial authorities was requested and an agreement was reached



ANNEX 1
_ 47 -                         Page 4
that a financial plan for i.te company's rehabilitation would be presented to
the Bax.k (para. 6.03). The review would indicate, within a five year period,
the steps to be taken by the company to reach a 60:40 debt/equity ratio, a 2:1
current ratio and a debt coverage ratio above 2.0. This plan would need to be
acceptable and begin to be implemented prior to subloan approval by the Bank.
As a first step, to improve its financial position the Ministry of Finance has
allowed an initial capitalization of Ft 100 million of the 2resent,
outstanding, long term debt.
11.      The sub-project would finance the establishment of cold storage for
2,000 million tons-capacity at the site of the slaughterhouse. It would also
finance the procurement and installation of handling and packaging equipment.
Sub-project cost is estimated at US$5.3 million of which US$3.1 million would
be the estimated value of directly imported equipment, financed by the Bank
loan. The balance would be provided by the company using incremental
Development Fund resources generated by the sub-project and a long-term loan
from NBE.
12.      Sub-project benefits would increase the company's earnings by about
30% due to cutting current high cold storage rental costs and improving the
quality of stored carcasses. The sub-project is estimated to produce
incremental profits before taxes of about US$1.5 million per year and
incremental tax revenue of about Ft 35 million.  From an institutional
viewpoint, the sub-project would be instrumental in providing the company with
an adequate capital structure and facilitate the establishment of a more
independent financial management. It would be financially self supporting
with a comfortable 2.2 debt service coverage ratio.
Cegled-Pest-Nograd Meat Compaly
13.      The company has four slaughterhouses located in central Hungary in
Pest-Nograd County and was originally constructed in 1937. The Cegled
slaughterhouse processes about 50% of the company's total output, but it
operates with obsolete equipment and recently lost its permit to export meat
to the EEC. In 1983, the ccmpany produced about 50,000 million tons of
processed products, about 16% of which were exported to convertible currency
m.rkets. The company employs 2,400 persons, 75% of which are manual laborers
and the rest are skilled workers and administrative staff. The management is
well qualified and experienced and the company's organization is one of the
most efficient amcng the Meat Trust compauies. It has a satisfactory
financial position with a 1.4 debt service ratio and a 2.0 current ratio. It
also has a long-term borrowing capacity due to its high capitalization.
14.      The sub-project wculd provide funds for the rehabilitation of
slaughterhouse facilities in order to increase the present capacity from
210,000 pigs to 270,000 p.a. It would also upgrade the cooling and freezing
compartments, provide equipment for processing edible fat and for skin
preparation, and would also finance cold storage for 3,000 million tons.  The
investmtnt would reduce losses caused by the present obsolete equipment and
considerably improve sanitary conditions. Total project cost is estimated at
about US$18.8 million of which US$10.6 million is in directly imported
equipment. Implementation would take three years. The Bank loan would
finance the direct foreign exchange portion of the investment costs, the meat
company wou'd contribute about 30% and the rest would be provided by the NBH.



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                            D        C
15.      The sub-project's main benefits would be the substantial increase of
the company's export sales due to increased output and improved processing and
sanitary conditions. It would generate incremental profits after financial
charges and depreciation of about US$1.9 million. It would also be
financially self-supporting as indicated by the debt service coverage ratio
which averages 1.8 throughout the period of project implementation.
The Miskolc Meat Co.
16.      The company slaughters livestock sells about 60% on the local market
to the three eastern counties of Borsod-Abauj-ZerLiplen and the balance is
exported. It also operates two small sausage and ham processing plants. In
1983 the Miskolc slaughterhouse processed about 64,000 million tons of animals
and sold about 12,800 million tons of liveweight animals to eastern
countries. The animal capacity of the pig slaughterline is 200 head per hour
and the cattle line 30'head per hour. Only part of the slaughtering
facilities have EEC hygienic approval for export. The company employees 1,990
workers about 25% of whom are skilled. The management of the company is well
qualified and, in recent years, has substantially increased productivity and
operating efficiency with technical assistance from a US firm. In 1983 the
company's sales were US$81 million and pretax profit was US$2 million. The
main export products are pork cuts, beef parts and canned products. Main
export markets are the Soviet Union, the Middle East and the EEC. The company
is in a sound financial position with a 2.1 debt service coverage ratio and A
2.5 current ratio.
17.      The sub-project investment would finance procurement of modern
processing equipment to make it possible to comply with EEC import
regulations. In addition special packaging and slicing equipment would be
procured to improve the company's export market appeal. Total sub-project
cost is estimated at US$4.1 million of which about 80% would be direct foreign
equipment imports. Sub-project implementation would make two years with fu'l
capacity to be reached at the end of the second year. The Bank loan would
finance the direct foreign exchange requirements and the Miskolc meat company
would provide the balance under the form of equity.
18.      The sub-project benefits would be to increase exports of processed
meat products. The project would generate incremental profits before
financial changes and depreciation of about US$1 million at capacity and have
a 2.1 debt service coverage ratio.
The Papa Meat Company
19.      The company operates livestock slaughtering and meat processing
facilities in the western county of Veszprem in a large plant with an annual
production capacity of 65,600 million tons of processed meat. It also
directly exports about 12,000 million tons of live animals.  The comp,ny is
run by capable and experienced management and employs 2,800 workers. Its 1983
total sales were US$105 million and pretax profit was about US$3 million.
About 60% of production is sold locally around the Lake Balaton area. Main
export products are canned ham, dry sausages, pork cuts and lard. The company
is in a sound financial position with a 3.5 debt service ratio and a 2.1
current ratio.



ANNEX 1
- 49 -                            Page 6
20.      The investment under the sub-project would finance the rehabilitation
of the pig slaughterline and improvement of the pork handling and can packing
facilities. The sub-project cost is estimated at US$ 5.8 million of which
US$4.3 million would be the directly imported equipment. Funds from the Bank
loan would finance the direct foreign exchange requirements and Papa Meat
Company would contribute 25% of project cost under the form of equity.
21.      The project would increase the company's export potential and
generate sufficient foreign exchange to compensate foreign exchiange
expenditures in a two year period. It would also generate yearly incremental
profits at capacity after financial and depreciation charges of about
US$0.9 million, and maintain through the implementation period an average 1.9
debt service coverage ratio indicating sufficient capacity to self-finance the
proposed investment.
Feed Industry Subproject
22.      The subproject envisages: (a) the establishment of a large
(20 ton/hr) feed concentrate factory to provide premix to feed mills for
protein enrichment; (b) the reconstruction of 30 old and obsolete feed mills;
and (c) the conversion of 27 old feed mills into liquid feed mixing
factories. Average increase in capacity in the dry feed mills would be from
5 million tons per hour to 7.5 million tons. The purpose of the project is to
increase the volume and efficiency of feed production for swine, poultry,
ruminants and smaller animals like rabbits. The concentrate factory will be
located in the northwestern part of the country on a large state farm, which
is presently operating a feed premix plant. But the equipment is obsolete and
the output capacity is much below demand. The subborrower has a sound
financial position indicated by the 1983 financial statements of sales revenue
of US$55 million, pretax profits of US$2.5 million, a current ratio of 2.5,
and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5. The average dry feedmill and high
moisture feed mill subborrowing under the project are likewise creditworthy.
The 1983 financial statements show satisfactory profitability, current ratios
of 3.5 for the average dry feed mill and of 4.1 for the average moisture feed
mill.  Debt service coverage ratios are respect.vely 1.5 and 1.7.
23.      Investment for the concentrate factory will finance imports of
equipment and constructions. Total cost is estimated at US$5.4 million.
Imported equipment for the dry feed mills and high moisture feedmills would
include new grinding, mixing and pelleting machines. Average project
investment cost for the dry feed mill would be US$0.8 million for the high
moisture mill, US$o.1 million. Foreign exchange requirements would be about
44% of project cost and would be financed by Bank resources. The balance
would be covered by subborrowers equity contributions and subloans from NBH.
24.      The principal benefits to be derived from investment would be
increased efficiency and increased volume of formula feed production and large
applications of liquid feed mixing operations with s':bstantial decrease in
operating costs. Incremental profits before taxes are estimated at US$1
million for the concentrate plant, US$o.1 million for the dry feed mill and
US$0.05 for the high moisture feed mill.



ANNEX 1
- 50 -                           Page 7
Ultra-Filtration Units for Export Cheese Production
25.      Four dairy plants would install ultra-filtration facilities retaining
about 20% more milk solids in the processing of milk to white cream cheese
than is currently achieved. Live single dairy plants do not have independent
legal status, the official sub-borrower under the project would be the Dairy
Trust, a large state holding company, owning about 80% of dairy facilities in
the country. The plants are managed by competent staff and technicians and
they would be fully trained by the suppliers of the imported equipment in its
installation, operation and maintenance. Tne Dairy Trust's aggregate
financial position is sound despite high overhead costs. The 1983 financial
statements show profits before taxes of US$17.5 million, a current ratio of
1.5 and a debt service coverage ratio of 2.5. The Trust, as other similar
trusts in the country, is almost totally capitalized with its own capital.
26.      The milk processing plants which would install the ultra-filtration
unit would produce white cream cheese packed in cans for export. Total
sub-project cost is estimated to be US$5.4 million. The directly imported
equipment would be 75X of total costs and would be financed by the Bank loan.
The Dairy Trust would contribute 25% of sub-project cost under the form of
equity. Project implementation is estimated to take two years. Engineering
and design work would be done by AGROBER, the engineering consultants to NBH
under the project.
Ultra-High Temperature Units for Production of Long Shelf Life Milk
27.      Under the project, five new ultra-high temperature facilities would
be installed in dairy plants at Csongrad, Hajok, Gyor, Kapuvar and Srolnok.
The installations would allow pasteurized milk to be preserved beyond a week
compared to the cne day shelf life of current fresh milk. The subborrower, as
in the case of the ultra-filtration equipment, would be the Dairy Trust.
28.      The sub-project would finance sterilizing and packing machine units.
Total sub-project cost is estimated at about US$5.8 million. The investment
would be almost completely financed by the Bank loan as 90% of the cost are
for directly imported equipment. As in the case of ultra-filtration
technology, engineering and supervision of installation would be done by
AGROBER
Phylaxia Vaccine Production Company
29.      Phylaxia is a well established pharmaceutical company which has been
in operation for over 70 years. Its present fermentation plant was built
about 20 years ago to produce enzymes and antibiotics required for animal
feeding. It is the only pharmaceutical company under the supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture. It produces medicines and enZymes for animal feeding
and the food industry, including feed antibiotics, nutrients and
pharmaceutical materials used in premixes, some of which are exported. In
1983, its sales revenue totaled US$78 million, about 10% of which was exported
to convertible currency areas. The comDany is administered by experienced
management and the largest part of its staff is made up of chemists and highly
qualified technicians. The company's financial position is sound. Profits
before taxes in 1983 amounted to about US$15.7 million. Its creditworthiness



ANNEX 1
- 51 -                            Page 8
is enhanced by the fact that its capital is almost entirely equity and its
debt service coverage ratio is 2.5. The management of its working capital
needs improvement, due to excessive accumulation of inventories and
receivables. For this purpose, the official auditor of NBH financed subloans,
the General Banking Trust Company, would undertake full auditing of Phylaxia's
1983 accounts providing qualifications on its working capital administration,
and submit it to the Bank for review prior to subloan approval and a financial
plan would be prepared to show how Phylaxia's management would improve the use
of its of current assets over a period of 2-3 years (para. 6.03).
30.      The current fermentation plant is physically and technically
obsolete. The sub-project would finance the construction of a new plant to be
located out of town to abide by recently applied environmental regulations.
The plant would produce bO million tons of antibiotics and 1 70 tons of
enzymes, including cellulose, renin and amyloglycosidase for cheese production
and starch. Total sub-project cost is estimated to be Ft 498 million (US$10.0
million) of which 40% is direct foreign exchange component. Sub-project
implementation is estimated to take 33 months with full capacity reached in
the fourth year. The basic engineering work will be done by Phylaxia's own
staff assisted by Vejiterv, a well known state engineering and pharmaceutical
company. Phylaxia itself would contribute about 30% of the required funds.
The balance would be provided through a long-term NBH loan.
31.      The subproject benefits would improve livestock quality and decrease
losses through healthier and more nutritious feed. It would also have an
import substitution effect by decreasing imports of enzymes and antibiotics.
The project is expected to increase Phylaxia's profitability by decreasing
operating costs and improving the management of current assets. It would
generate incremental profits before taxes of about US$3.6 million at capacity,
and tax income for an amount equivalent to about US$1.6 million. The project
would be financially self-supporting with a 2.5 debt service coverage ratio.
ATEV Company: Blood and Feather Rendering
32.      ATEV is an affiliate of the Grain Trust and it operates eleven blood,
feather and fat rendering plants in the country. The company produces highly
valuable animal feed ingredients such as blood and meat meal. It also
processes non-edible fats into raw material for export. Its financial
position is sound with profit before taxes of about US$1 million. ATEV's 1983
financial statements show that it is creditworthy with a 2.2 current ratio a
2.7 debt service coverage ratio and a capitalization almost completely made up
of equity.
33.      The project would finance: (a) a blood rendering line with a capacity
of 2.5 million tons per hour designed to render 14,000 million tons of raw
blood per annum into 1,980 million tons of blood meal with 82% protein
content; and (b) a feather processing line designed to render 17,000 million
tons of raw feather into 6,200 million tons of feather meal, with 78% protein
content. While raw material supply has been identified and transportation
costs acceptable, ATEV would have to plan and coordinate collection of raw
material from meat and poultry processing plants. Sub-project costs are
estimated for the blood rendering facilities of US$3.4 million and for the



ANNEX 1
-52 -                             Page 9
feather rendering facilities of US$3.6 million. Aggregate direct foreign
exchange requirements are estimated at US$3.0 million. The Bank loan would
finance the direct foreign exchange or about 51% of project cost while ATEV
and NBH would contribute 30Z and 20X respectively of investment requirements.
34.      The main benefits to be expected from the project are a substantial
increase in blood and feather meal availability with import substitution
effects and enhanced environmental protection. The blood rendering line would
generate incremental profits after depreciation of about US$0.3 million.
0978E



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Exoort Markets far Snecific Cogmodities Produced Under the Prolect
Slaughter pigs,               Slaughter beef, raw            Slaughter sheep/lambs,    Cow-milk cheese,
pork sides, pork products   beef, beef products              mutton, ewe-milk cheese   white cream cheese
Socialist          Live pigs and raw pork         Live beef cattle, raw,
beef and veal
Western Europe    Pork sides, dry                 Young fattened cattle,         Lightweight lambs,           Special cheese,
20-40 lbs                   white cream cheese.
sausages, salami, special   special cuts and                 and sheepmeat products
pork cuts.                    boxed-in beef for
wholesale distribution
i1ddle-East                      -                Raw beef and veal              Heavy weight lambs           White cream
(40-60 lbs)                 cheese, and cheeses
and beef products             sheepmeat products and    combining cow milk
ewe-milk cheese             with sheep milk
USA                Canned and foiled-             Prime cuts, boxed-in           Sheepmeat products           Special cheeses
packed ham/bacon,             beef for catering services
special pork cuts,            and beef products
pork products.
salami.
Far-East (Japan)  Fro2en pork sides,
special pork cuts,
pork products
1037E p. 4
1x



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Background Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-sector
A. 1      Studies in Agricultural Economics, Research Institute for
Agricultural Economics, Quarterly Journal, Various issues.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B. 1      Integrated Livestock Industry Project, Preparation Report, NBH
and MEM, March 1984, 14 volumes.
B. 2      Sub-project feasibility studies on five slaughterhouses, NBH,
July 1984, 5 volumes.
B. 3      Sub-project list of equipment for slaughterhouse credit line,
NBH, July 1984.
B. 4      Marketing in Hungary, Hungarian Chamber of Commerce, Quarterly
Publication, various issues.
B. 5      Preliminary Calculations of the Nominal and effective Protection
Coefficients and the Domestic Resource Cost Indexes of the Main
Animal Products in Hungary, Research Institute for Agricultural
Economics, May 1984.
B. 6      World Agriculture:  Outlook and Situation Report, USDA,
June 1984.
B. 7      Meat, Meat Products and Milk Products Reports, FAO, 1984,
various studies.
B. 8      Projections of Foreign Commodity Supply and Demand, USDA,
June 1984.
B. 9      "Beef and Pork Capacity of Marketing Services", in Livestock and
Poultry, Outlook and Situation Report, USDA, March 1984.
B.10      "Trends and Developments in the Hog-Pork Industry", USPA/ERS,
October 1980.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.11      Changing Trends in the Red Meat Distribution SYstem, USDA/ERS,
February 1984.
B.12      Meat Distribution Patterns in Six Southern Metro Areas,
USDA/ERS, April 1983, 2 volumes.
B.13      Price - Quantity Relationships for Selected Cuts of Pork,
USDA/ERS, 1980.
B.14      Status Report on World market for Bovine Meat, CAT.
January 1981.
B.15      "Methods and evaluation and Selection of Investment Projects
used in Hungary at Present," EDI Seminar in Hungary, April 1984.
B.16      National Bank of Hungary, Annual Reports, 1976-83.
B.17      National Bank of Hungary, Credit Guidelines, 1983.
B.18      National Authority on environmental Protection,
Environmental Regulations for Hungary, 1982.
B.19      National Water Authority, Water Pollution Guidelines, 1984.
C. Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawing and Maps Prepared by Bank Staff
C. I      Hungarian Exports of Selected Project Commodities, Volume, Value
and Unit Value, 1976-1984, NBN and TERIMPEX, July 1984.
C. 2      Hungary, Dairy Industry ultrafiltration Sub-project.
C. 4      Szekes Fecervar Dairy Plant, and appraisal by NBH.
C. 5      Slaughterhouse Sector, Rehabilitation of the State Industry.
Appraisal of 12 Sub-projects.
C. 6      Veszprem Dairy Plant, an Appraisal by NBH.
C. 7      Milk Processing in the Cooperative Sector, Working Paper.
C. 8      Bloodmeal, Feathermeal, Animal Fats, Investment Calculations and
Price Projections.
C. 9      Blood, Feather and Industrial Fat Processing Sub-project
Evaluation.
C.lO      Economical and Technological Study of Animal Fat Processing.
L039E



-56  -                                                      Chart  I
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Project Organizatlon and Row of Funds
|WconO Sonk |       |  oflOnOdcIrt|
Neftonal Bk
of4 1ungOrr                                                      jArn dVof
Agrotculr., anc
Ag,ncLAune Loon    Foocw InctwlV                                                                                                  Fooi irdwsy
Dewtprmef     LoonDec,amTent    A- _----                      - .-
I   l ,                                                      I                                                         enq?fO
I   BANCHES 
Sn0eD Fors      _                                            uoTrust             Aii iV
Fewr Forrrs                                                rr lPcnts       reancering Plnts
FreectO Mtils                                _hla' Er_4   -
3c>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or Pk ntusr  AmMtracs Pcan
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- I~                                                    Nokwd ofurncts
L                                 ~~~~~~~-4-~ Coor(Ifinotion ofPo
KOP I INPttT   | KONPVLEX    | FlJNGEXtP
IO s                                                                                   l  Bank -203
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __Fognp S4vO-s of
-Cooct nonc SWceswo  Baria - 2o312



- 57 -
Chart 2
HUNGARY
INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Project Implementction Schedule
*AR          196                   190                   1987                  1988                  1989
QUARTER   1    2    3    A    I    2    3    4              2               1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
1. ON-FARM OEVELOPMENT
10 Pg FOTTs                                            _          _ .
16 Pgarms Pi g                                                                          __ .
281 anns                                _                 _  _. 
2.   Od Forms                      -    -    -    -                                   f _  .
6 Dowv Farms                                                                 -t--                - ___
Dairv Forms
2_. AC-R-rNDL-STR
A Stcugnteaurses|
DOOCW                       -== -   -                                       7lr~U-- --- a..1
>~                              - _- I r.tm |    K-5-
Gyo CKj)                                                                             - a   a_ -t
Szkszad                                                  a -     I_I
P                          =ge  - - I -                 -rr-t~lr -n l 
!ASkOPC                    =            -        I -          _____II_II                                                      I
Crea                        = -cr--              I Uni            Tia4                                                             I
B Dov Fessies__
4 Ultra-fltiraion Units                                            -          - _|                     _|i
5 Uitrca-ron Termeratre Units             t           i                   1
1 Feed Concentrate Plant          -    -    -    -               r r -                1 i            I
30 Feedmrnl ExpOnsons
27 Hugh-Miasture Feernilis            t            -
D Peraenng                                -    -                                                 a
31Oad                                                                             I i                  i t         I    |    i
E Enyr'e & Ani,otic larnI                                                     I                           T         1
F Mest Puir SVstem                 i                      t -                                       I
3. RESEARCH AND TRAINING
4. MARKETING SERVICES                                                l jjl
Malletl Study
I   TecnnsciSmes                                                       - r-- 7        1        - 7r- l   i7                 S1
Legend
A0oivO Of SuDiOCn;. PreiarOrto of Docunerts.
_ rioC FClDgnrs. A-s4W.sng & E-oiuacroe.n Aworc cT
CnerTacr a Sgn,rig of CortracT
-  a  - Costrujclon & Imrernenaton Pewoc



F R ANCE  ?FED REP    CZECH _                                    r USSR
<WI s  C tAUSTRIA rHUNGARY Ji...r
4_-J\ r*< - a _ROMANl  _r b  IA\;
- YUGOS L A;VI _-- * 1.; if, ,...
z  TALy    z          -"BULGARIA*
-   L          -  {>     1 J                          :;.'.;..v",::'1;1
!'~ 4 e-r .1,~    ,  ,                  : .,.. .. ..
I           ~~~TURK(EY
-   -.jGREECE
G-bR-                               KOMAROM'J'
VA'S
<e a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F E J ER t   
<                       PA            r    :  ___                      r                                    'B'-.
~~ Jk                        VESZPR,EM 
Z\A/L A                    -  --                                                           BA   -    K B
i7~>-'?Ki->  /                               1  A TOLNA
SOMOGY
BARANYA    I-
-.                 -B~~e



IBRD 1706'
J- (....-~N...                                                          -. A^.IL H98A E S83
*,,-          BORSOD'ABAJJZE P
N6GR4DF'8
(              ~~HEVES 
*            )   _.                                       HAJDU-BOIHA           -
{  .SZOLNOK   ii                                                      HUNGARY
, = fZOLNOK I-  \ {t-X  t  -                                      AGRICULTURAL AREA,
r- - --  "'fr SUNLIGHT & PRECIPITATION
I;< -;  "   J iAgricultural areas ipercentage)
Arable lond
\CS-KISKUN                                                                                   -        Horticulture, vineyards,orchords
~-roissland
B >   a E K E S      t        ~     -- Average annual rainfall shown in
*      <             I      @        S                        (}                        Millimeters
>            MegeyoSunlight (hours per jnnum)
j                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~2r50
/    .-*                              ~~~~~~~~~2100
/~CSONIGRAD  ~-'-2050
(                                ~~~~~~~~2000
Rivers
-Megey (county) boundaries
International boundaries
~~~~                   .~~~~~~~~~  ______________         *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.
_S                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 



H U N G A R Y
APPRAISAL OF INTEGRATED LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY PROJECT
Elevations in Moters                   Enterprises and Resarch Stations                       Canals
200 - 400                               Sl ughterhouss                                      Rivers
Above 400                       1       Ultra-High Temperature Milk Plants         v6       National Capsial
4,        Ultra-Filtration Proce5sing Plants        _     -   Megye (countyl Boundaries
KILOMETERS 0    10  20   30   40   50  "0   70  sO                    Phylaxia Company                                    Iiternational Boundaries
MILES 0       10      20       30      40       50               BOSCOOP                                                          r           4f° ,e
-)                       0         Blood and Feather Rendering Plants                            41
)   .odoowsl/owo       i3         Research Stations                                     oSaig
29      >I5                   Motorway
AUSTRIA                     V                                   Main Roads
--i-- .-.,   Railroads
C   o~~ o moni.og,r"otor                                           1%o  S       mzos                               -
Gyor    ~ ~    ~ ~ . fc,une~~~~szI ~~~ c
3-tab6nyo    \         i     - -
Szombothely                                                               Szelesf,
)     iiooe,gerszeg
t>                      KeirtOheKle\C/-                        S              7K<szthel,
4. 2ogr.b ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~apsvr-
_  Nogrsan,zso    _1                                       -i                                                                      '' \
*0 N  '  . * , X V                                                                     ) -
YUGOSLAVIA
0. .0    .a -aowr                                              1:b.r.  ( rn (.                                        -,t 0t'-J'1
-  ~t.*  0'  , f..*r   '   -, *Cqw 
t p.c                                   n'



IBRD  181-
PROJECT                                                                       F. O!
Canals                                              J                                                                    I
River s                                                                                                            Jo ualu,l  -joDc  U. S. S  R.
National Capital
Megye (county) Capitals
Megye (county) Boundaries
International Bounidarios                                                                                                           V   \
§ ~~~dTg:         *~o 5ag6tarji; "n      .
*T  0za~a~j,    DNyiregyh3zo         -
n   S  k  >        i f                                            14 a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al dub70uotrt e n v 
r   e      S zo no~-                                                   !io9l 
=,~~~~~~~r \ r                                                                    4aj'-b\ ,0i.' f
\               ,, ~~~ecskernet    r                              k<
K           .0 s0. .Szarvas
t                        °,            gz  ~~~~~~F~~~JruBk6sso 
.)                                                                                      -,~~~0
0                                         -<:z~~~~~~~~~~c-.os~~~~~~~~c     u   S  ~~~~~~~S  R
0                                                                    1
-'            M~~~ULARIA
tTA y                                  T U R iCo
TAL                     E       (      T;  u _o cGREECE
DEC EM IER



