Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20912
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37740; SCL-3774A; SCL-37750; TF-25390)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 8, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Guarani (G)
Gsl = US$ 0.00026 (March 2001)
US$ 1 = Gs.3.768
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCP            -      Central Bank of Paraguay
BD             -      Banco de Desarrollo
BNF            -      Banco Nacional de Fomento
BNT            -      Banco Nacional de Trabajadores
BU             -      Banco Union
CCG            -      Management Coordinating Committee
(Comite de Coordinacion y Gestion)
CPL            -      Currency Pool Loan
FDI            -      Industrial Development Fund
(Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial)
PFIs           -      Participating Financial Intermediaries
IDB            -      The Inter-American Development Bank
LIBOR          -      The London Inter-bank Offered Rate
MERCOSUR   -          Mercado Comun del Sur
MOF            -      Ministry of Finance
MTR            -      Mid Term Review
PSDP           -      Private Sector Development Project
SCL            -      Single Currency Loan
UNDP           -      United Nations Development Program
UTEP           -      Project Executing Unit
(Unidad Tecnica de Ejecucion de Proyectos)
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Francisco Wulff/Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    17
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Summary                                          28
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007917                                       lProject Name: PRVT SCTR DEVT/EI Nino
Team Leader: Francisco J. Wulff                           TL Unit LCSFU
ICR Type. Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 8, 2001
1. Project Data
Name  PRVT SCTR DEVT/El Nino                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-37740;
SCL-3774A;
SCL-37750; TF-25390
Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector DS - Small Scale Enterprise; FS - Financial Sector
Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD   05/22/1990                              Effective  10/18/94            01/19/95
Appraisal.  12/15/1992                                MTR. 06/19/96              08/01/96
Approval.  07/05/1994                              Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency GOVT OF PARAGUAY/FONDO DE DESARROLLO INDUSTRIAL
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
C.ountry Manager:    Myrna Alexander                           Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager       Danny Leipziger                           Paul M. Meo
Team Leader at ICR    Francisco Wulff                          Alex Fleming
ICR Primary Author    Shahrzad Gohari; Mariluz Cortes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. U
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Impact M
Bank Performance S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry.                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
1.    The primary objective of the project was to strengthen the private sector so that it could
play an enhanced role in fostering economic growth in Paraguay. This objective was to be
achieved by providing medium- and long term credit to overcome the immediate constraints on
investment financing, which were limiting the response of the export sector to the liberalized
macroeconomic environment and the expanded MERCOSUR market. A related objective of the
project was to foster further reforms of the financial sector, so as to increase the efficiency of
resource mobilization, intermediation, and allocation. This objective was to be achieved by
strengthening the banking sector regulatory framework and the supervisory capabilities of the
Central Bank of Paraguay (BCP). The expectation was that the financial policy reforms would, in
due course, reduce Paraguay's requirements for foreign credit in general, and World Bank credit
lines in particular.
2.    The project objectives were fairly clear but quite challenging in the Paraguayan context.
The objective of promoting private sector participation through the provision of medium-and
long-term credit was in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board
on December 21, 1993, which, inter alia, focused on private sector development. This objective
was, however, a challenge due to the frailty of the local banks and the limited project
implementation capability of the executing agency. The objective of furthering financial sector
reforms was the logical extension of the Government's reform program undertaken in the early
1990's, which sought to establish a more market-oriented economic environment to encourage
private sector development. Policy reforms already taken at the time of project preparation
included: liberalization of trade and financial sector reforms such as the elimination of controls
over interest rates and bank portfolios, liberalization and unification of the exchange rate, allowing
for deposits in foreign exchange, reduction of interest-free reserve requirements, curtailment of
subsidized credit fron. banks, and the lowering of entry costs for banks through more liberal
licensing procedures.  Further financial sector reforms agreed under the project assumed
continuous political support for the reform program, which was not always forthcoming and led
to delays in project preparation and execution.
3.2 Revised Objective.
3.    By mid-1998, after nearly a year of unsatisfactory project ratings, and nearing the closing
date, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to revise the objectives of the project and transfer the
unused Bank loans to finance assistance for the ongoing El Nino emergency. On June 17, 1998,
the Board approved, on a no objection basis, an amendment to the Loan Agreements to transfer
the outstanding balance of the loans, amounting to US$15 million (30% of the original loan), to
help finance an El Nino Emergency Assistance Component. As a result of this amendment, the
project's objectives were changed. The new objective was to assist the Government on an
emergency basis to: reduce the loss of human life and the deterioration of living standards,
prevent damages to the economic infrastructure, and rehabilitate economic and social public
infrastructure, which had been damaged by the floods resulting from the 1997/98 El Nino
phenomenon; and increase Paraguay's capacity to forecast and respond to future similar events
and other natural phenomena. The ICR for this component is being prepared separately.
3 3 Original Components:
-2 -



4.    Investment Component. An investment component in the form of two global lines of
credit were to channel two Bank loans, for a total amount of US$50 million, through a
second-tier unit established in the BCP, to eligible first-tier participating financial institutions
(PFIs) and then on to a wide range of sub-borrowers. One line of credit, to finance export related
projects in US dollar denominated sub-loans, was to channel a Bank US$25 million single
currency loan (SCL); another credit line, to finance production for the local market in Guarani
denominated sub-loans, was to channel a Bank US$25 million equivalent currency pool loan
(CPL). Sub-loans were for investment projects and technical services, they had a US$5 million
maximum and financed up to 70% of an individual project's costs. Investment sub-loans had a
maturity of 3-10 years with 3 years of grace, and technical services sub-loans had a maturity of
1-3 years with 6 months of grace. The SCL was one of the first loans of this type under the Bank's
SCL Pilot Program.
5.    Environmental and social safeguards and procurement rules were incorporated as part of
the evaluation and implementation processes of the sub-projects, respectively and, apart from
minor adjustments, were well-designed and did not pose any problems at the execution stage.
Performance monitoring and evaluation were also designed to be undertaken both on ex-ante and
ex-post basis. The first-tier unit was to perform a minimum ex-ante review of the sub-projects
documentation that was to be submitted by the PFIs. The latter were to be primarily responsible
for the sub-project's evaluation and would bear the credit and commercial risks.
6.    The Bank, in turn, was to approve the first three sub-loans from each PFI and any
subsequent sub-loans of over US$1.0 million. The ex-post monitoring and evaluation included
periodic sample analysis of the appraised sub-projects during Bank supervision missions. In
addition, a Mid Term Review (MTR) was designed to take place 18 months after the loans'
effectiveness, or after half of the loans had been committed, to assess the performance of the loans
and that of the second-tier unit; and the implementation of the Government's financial sector
reform program. This was to be an opportunity to make adjustments to the project design and
diffuse the project risks.
7.    Pricing mechanism of the Lines of Credit. The pricing mechanism of the lines of credit
was considered state of the art for this type of operations. Interest rates on sub-loans were linked
to market-determined rates. The interest rate for dollar loans to the PFIs was determined by the
six month LIBOR plus a spread that covered the country, credit and term risks, and the estimated
administrative expenses of the second-tier unit. The interest rate for Guarani loans to the PFIs was
based on the 180 day fixed deposit rate (published by the Superintendency of Banks - SB)
adjusted for reserve requirements plus a spread to cover term risk. The interest rates on the
intermediary loans were to be adjusted every six months to reflect the LIBOR changes. The
intermediary banks would charge a spread freely determined between them and the
sub-borrowers. This spread was fixed for the duration of the sub-loan. These features were novel
for Paraguay, where loans to the private sector were mostly short-term, and long-term credit,
though available through public banks, was severely rationed and earmarked to specific sectors.
8.    Project Executing Agency. The BCP was originally supposed to have been the project
executing agency that was to act as a second-tier unit and administer the loan. The BCP was to
- 3 -



finance the second-tier unit from its own funds. However, the BCP declined this responsibility on
the eve of project effectiveness. The government thus presented the Bank with a proposal to
amend the loans --Amendments were dated December 18, 1995, one day before effectiveness--
and to place the project executing agency (Unidad Tecnica de Ejecucion de Proyectos UTEP)
within the Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial (FDI).
9.    The new UTEP was to operate as a second-tier unit to on-lend the Bank funds, under the
guidance of the Comite de Coordinacion y Gestion (CCG) formed by the Vice ministers of
Finance and Industry, a Director of the BCP and two private sector representatives. The CCG's
function was to act as a Board of Directors for the UTEP/FDI and approve the participation of
the PFIs, based on the recommendation of the UTEP and the SB. The BCP was to remain as the
Government's agent to debit and credit funds in the PFIs' accounts and to manage the Special
Accounts. Under this new arrangement, the Government was supposed to provide funding for
the UTEP for about three years, until the spread on the loans could cover the administrative costs
of about US$200,000 a year.
10.   The relationship among the members of the Board of the CCG and their obligations with
respect to the Bank loans, though spelled out in an Institutional Agreement, was uneasy due to
the different objectives of the agencies involved. The UTEP was not given the legal stature that
was necessary to provide it with an effective signature authority and adequate budget to discharge
its duties. Instead, the personnel provided by the respective organizations were insufficient
--mostly part-time staff-- and untrained to function effectively. This issue seriously affected the
implementation performance of the UTEP at times, as it was starved of budget and had to seek
authorization within the other Government agencies to carry out its functions. Ultimately, a loan
amendment on March 7, 1997 reallocated a sum of US$200,000 from sub-loans account to
strengthening the UTEP through provision of consultants' services and training. In addition, the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) agreed to pass on to the UTEP the 0.5% administrative spread that it
had kept, in order to provide some relief to the financial problem of the UTEP. However, the
legal stature issue remained unresolved.
11.   First-tier Participating Financial Intermediaries. The issue of the eligibility of the PFIs
posed project design problems. The weak administrative and financial management capacities and
fragile financial positions of most local banks had been acknowledged by the Bank at the project
design and preparation stages. The Bank and the BCP agreed on the qualification criteria that
interested banks should meet to be accredited as financial intermediaries for the Bank funds.
Also, mandatory external audits were designed to screen the ineligible banks. However,
inadequate prudential regulation and lack of transparency in the banking system produced
unrealistic conclusions as to the financial robustness of the Paraguayan banks, and hence about
their compliance with the agreed eligibility criteria. Moreover, lack of transparency made it
difficult to monitor the performance of the PFIs during the two banking crisis that hit Paraguay
during project implementation, and to decertify those experiencing financial difficulties.
12.  In retrospect, the credit lines component should have been postponed until such time that
the banking and financial reforms proposed by the Bank and other international organizations had
sufficient opportunity to proceed and produce the expected results.
- 4 -



13.   Policy Conditionality Component. The Bank sought to link the two credit lines to
improvements in the regulatory framework of the financial sector and the strengthening of the
supervisory capability of the BCP. Prior to Board presentation of the loans, the Government
submitted to Congress a draft new Central Bank Law bill, issued new regulations to establish a
new chart of accounts for financial institutions, and established new asset classification,
provisioning and interest suspension rules. Drafts of a new Banking Law and Insurance Law were
under preparation. Board presentation was conditioned to receiving a Letter of Development
Policy describing the Government's Financial Sector Reform Program.  Effectiveness was
conditioned to the adoption of new prudential regulation by the BCP; and granting of more
technical autonomy and initiating the restructuring of the SB.  The resumption of loan
commitments after the MTR was conditioned to a positive assessment by the Bank of progress
achieved in the implementation of the Financial Sector Reform Program. It was agreed that a
positive assessment would be based on: (i) evidence that the Government had discontinued the
practice of granting subsidized credit to selected borrowers through public banks; (ii) further
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework; (iii) compliance of the SB with the
monitorable targets of its restructuring program (agreed with the Bank); and presentation to
Congress, for their enactment, of a new Banking Law bill and Insurance Law bill. The measures
to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework specified under (ii) would have required
prior enactment of the Central Bank Law.
14.   Measures to be taken under this component, both prior to effectiveness and to MTR, were
designed to improve the environment for private sector borrowing through enhancing the BCP's
capabilities for monitoring, supervising and ensuring the financial robustness of the banking
system, by training its staff, and by instituting prudential regulations. Monitoring and supervision
capabilities, as well as prudential regulations, had been extremely underdeveloped in Paraguay.
To develop them, a new legal framework and considerable institutional strengthening of the SB,
within BCP, were required. The legal framework was to be provided by: (a) a new Central Bank
Law; (b) a new Banking Law; and (c) norms and regulations issued by BCP through resolutions
of its Board. The institutional strengthening of the SB was to be financed through a Japanese
Grant and other technical assistance funds obtained by the Government.
15.   The Central Bank Law was to provide the SB with a legal basis to intervene and decide on
the liquidation of insolvent banks; establish the ability to issue banking licenses; define the
concepts of related persons and groups to ensure that loans were not made to stockholders;
introduce a requirement for external auditing of banks' financial statements; and provide the SB
with a degree of financial and operational autonomy within the BCP. The Banking Law was also
necessary, inter alia, to establish minimum capital requirements following the Basle convention. A
number of resolutions were also designed for approval by the BCP's Board. These were
necessary to standardize the presentation of financial information and establish procedural
guidelines, including: accountancy norms and standards; asset classification; risk management
procedures; and regulations of Trust Funds.
16.   Technical Assistance Program. A technical assistance program of 80 million yen (about
US$2.5 million) from the Japanese Grant Facility, dated November, 19, 1991-- was put in place
- 5 -



during project preparation and implementation, to foster a process of institutional strengthening in
those entities that interfaced with the financial markets. The Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) cofinanced the technical assistance
program with, respectively, a soft loan of US$1 million and a grant of US$0.45 million (see
Annex 2b). Considerable efforts --in terms of Bank missions and consultant time (see Annex
4a)-- were dedicated to design and prepare the technical assistance program. The technical
assistance program supported the process of institutional and regulatory strengthening of
Paraguay's financial sector in several ways. First, by strengthening the SB through financing of:
(a) consultants to assist in drafting the above-mentioned banking laws and regulations; (b) staff
training; and (c) purchase of computers and software for data processing.  Second, by
strengthening the BCP through financing of consultants to: (a) develop a mechanism for
on-lending long-term funds; (b) study the impact of Paraguay's membership in MERCOSUR; (c)
examine the option for restructuring or privatizing public banks; (d) assist in the development of
local capital market; (e) support the settlement of internal debt between the MOF and the BCP;
(f) undertake studies on financial modeling and macro/financial issues; (g) develop computerized
system for external financing; (h) increase coordination between the BCP's money and exchange
market desks; and (i) train the BCP and SB staff. The technical assistance program also financed
international and local consultants to assist the UTEP to develop manuals and operating
procedures and to strengthen project implementation.
3 4 Revised Components.
17.   Technical Assistance Component. In March 1997, the Bank and the Borrower agreed
to amend the Loan Agieement to reallocate US$200,000 from the investment component to a
new technical assistance component to finance the technical strengthening of the project
coordinating unit (UTEP). The technical assistance funds would be used, among other things, to
extend the contract of an external consulting group that had been assisting the UTEP to review its
approval procedures, th. quality of supporting documentation, and carry out the follow-up of a
sample of sub-borrowers.
18.   El Nino Emergency Assistance Component. This component had an estimated cost of
US$17.8 million, of which, the Bank loans would contribute US$16 million. However, the
amount available for El Nino Component was in fact, US$15 million (after two disbursements
totaling US$264.000 in early 1998, for already committed sub-loans) and the Government would
contribute the rest.   The new component consisted of three sub-components. First, the
emergency-preventive/reconstruction sub-component (74.5% of the new component) was to
rehabilitate and protect specific affected public infrastructure such as bridges, hospitals,
health-posts, schools, river defenses and embankments in cities along the Paraguay River.
Second, a mitigation sub-component (4.5% of the new component) was to provide for the
installation of permanent water and sanitary facilities in about three sanitary centers in Asuncion.
Third, an Institutional Strengthening sub-component (21% of the new component) was to
strengthen the capacity of selected Paraguayan agencies responsible for carrying out relief
activities, as well as forecasting and monitoring the effects of climatic events.
3.5 Quality at Entryr
19.   The project pre-dates the introduction of QAG process in the Bank.
-6-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
20.   The original primary objectives of strengthening the private sector so that it could play an
enhanced role in fostering economic growth was only partially achieved. Although both
components underlying this objective produced outputs in terms of the relevant outcome
indicators (see Annex 1), the quality of the outcomes and results achieved were inadequate. The
provision of medium- and long-term credit to overcome the immediate constraints on investment
financing was only partially achieved. While the number of approved and disbursed sub-loans
financed with the Bank loans were quite high compared to those predicted in the SAR (see
below), the high level of arrears among sub-borrowers casts doubts on the profitability and
sustainability of these operations. Furthermore, the high level of arrears indicates that the due
diligence carried out by the PFIs was inadequate due to lack of capability to evaluate projects or
because the regulatory environment favored risky behavior by the banks. Nevertheless, it is
necessary to make a distinction among PFIs. While the government owned and some private
PFIs, later intervened by the BCP, had extremely high levels of arrears, a few private PFIs (such
as Multibanco) had no arrears in their portfolio of sub-loan funded with Bank funds.
21.   The Bank loans facilitated access by the FDI to other sources of funds for on-lending to
the private sector, including funds from the Eximbank of Japan, the Republic of Taiwan, and the
counterpart funds from an IDB Financial Sector Loan. These funds were channeled by the FDI
using the same eligibility criteria for participating banks, and the same loan pricing mechanism as
the Bank financed project. As of May 12, 2000, total funds channeled through the FDI amounted
to US$138.9 million, of which the Bank loans accounted for 25%. It is unlikely, however, that
the quality of the sub-loans made with non-Bank funds is much better than the quality of the
sub-loans made with Bank funds. Multibanco, one of the few successful PFIs, has been able to
develop strong project evaluation and follow-up capabilities, which helped it to mobilize medium
and long-term resources from other multilateral organizations such as the Corporacion Andina de
Fomento and the Corporacion Interamericana de Inversiones. Despite these additional sources of
long-term funds, the supply of term-financing in Paraguay remains scarce, as both local and
foreign banks find short-term operations less risky and more profitable.
22.   The partial strengthening of Paraguay's banking sector regulatory and supervisory
framework under the project's policy conditionality component did not prevent the deterioration
of Paraguay's banking system, which suffered two severe crisis during project implementation (in
1995 and 1997). Measures to improve banking regulation and supervision had been taken prior
to loan effectiveness, in January 1995, shortly before the banking crisis erupted. Similarly,
measures including the enactment of the Central Bank and Banking Laws and of new banking
norms and regulations, had been taken prior to the MTR, in mid-1996, a few months before the
second banking crisis erupted. It can be argued that the improved regulatory framework,
including the adoption of a CAMEL rating system (involving rating of capital, assets,
management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risks), improved the transparency of the system,
and exposed the weakness of many local banks. However, lack of political will to act
expeditiously to intervene and liquidate the insolvent banks perpetuated the crisis and contributed
to further contraction of credit to the private sector.
- 7 -



4.2 Outputs bv comnponents
23.   Investment Component. As of mid 1998, when the project was restructured and the
uncommitted amount was transferred to a new El Nino Component, the lines of credit had
disbursed US$34.81 million for 88 sub-projects, equivalent to 70% of the Bank loans
(US$16,323,602 of the currency pool loan and US$18,492,419 equivalent of the SCL). The
average size of the Guarani denominated sub-loans was US$179,538 equivalent and the average
size of the dollar denominated sub-loans was US$528,355. The sub-loans were geographically
concentrated in the Central Department (30 sub-loans amounting to US$12.02 million), followed
by Capital (27 sub-loans); Iaipua (9 sub-loans), and Alto Parana (7 sub-loans). The employment
generated by the 88 sub-loans amounted to 2,738 people. However, the profitability of the
sub-loans and their impact in increasing production of goods and services by the private sector are
uncertain. This observation is partly due to the high level of arrears in the lending portfolio, as
42.6% of the disbursed amounts as of June 1997 and 18.4% of the disbursed amounts as of
September 1997, had payments due for 60 or more days.  Sub-borrowers contributed, on
average, to 62% of the financing cost of their subprojects, about twice the contribution predicted
in the SAR (30%).
24.    Sub-projects covered a diversity of sectors and geographical areas. The activities
financed by the sub-loans were representative of the areas in which Paraguay has some
comparative advantage.
Activities               No. of Loans Amount (US$000)   Estimated Employment
Generated
Food products                  29                 12.93               1,083
Paper and Printing              8                  3.18                249
Ceramic, Mining                10                  3.40                321
Services                       11                  4.60                235
Other Industries                7                  1.66                 93
Wood and Derivatives            6                  1.82                294
Plastics                        2                  0.99                 18
Textile and Garments            5                  2.49                151
Metals and Metal Products       5                   1.80               137
Hotels and Tourism              2                  0.95                 51
Machinery                        1                 0.48                 21
Leather and Shoes                1                 0.34                 59
Chemicals and Cosmetics          1                 0.15                 26
Total                          88                 34.81              2,738
25.   Seven banks participated as financial intermediaries:
Banks                    No. of Loans       Amount (US$)
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)        6                  2,882,799
Banco Nacional de Trabajadores (BNT)    32                9,069,063
- 8 -



Banco Union (BU)                      26                 10,623,035
SSB Banco (ex-Busaif)                  4                 2,001,838
Banco Desarrollo (BD)                  8                  4,841,657
Multibanco                            11                 4,296,629
Banco Continental                      1                  1,100,000
26.    By mid-1997, four of the intermediary banks (BU, BD, SSB and BNT), which had
utilized the bulk of the Bank loans (76%) were in financial trouble and had been decertified as
financial intermediaries at the request of the Bank. These banks were later intervened and are
currently under liquidation. As of December 1997, about 13% of the loan disbursements were
through banks that were rated A and B, while the rest were through banks rated C and D. The
high level of arrears of the sub-loans has not affected the repayments to the FDI, because these
are made through automatic debits to the intermediary banks' accounts in the BCP. The
intervened banks have continued repaying the loans through this mechanism.  However, since
the accounts of these banks in the BCP will be closed once their liquidation is completed, the FDI
has been trying to establish alternative arrangements to recover the loans. The FDI has arranged
for the transfer of some of the sub-loans of the intervened banks to other banks (Multibanco has
assumed some of Union's sub-loans), and is exploring the creation of a trust to administer the
portfolio of sub-loans of the banks under liquidation.
27.   Technical Assistance Component. The US$200,000 technical assistance component
financed by the Bank was utilized to finance international (US$100,000) and local (US$7,876)
consultants and to provide training for the FDI staff (US$3,024). As of the time of this report,
US$88,566 in technical assistance funds for the FDI remained undisbursed.
28.   Policy Conditionality Component. Even though most of the output indicators expected
under this component were accomplished as conditions of loan effectiveness (see Annex 1) and of
MTR, the desired results proved elusive and made the environment in which the project operated
considerably risky. By the MTR (May/August, 1996), a number of output indicators had been
achieved and the progress under this component was rated as satisfactory. These measures
included: (a) approval by Congress of a number of financial sector laws, including a Central
Bank Law (May 9, 1996), a Banking Law (promulgated on June 24, 1996) and an Insurance Law;
(b) initiating the reorganization of the SB and granting it broader technical functions; and (c)
issuing new banking regulations. As result of these achievements, it was cautiously concluded
that there had been satisfactory progress in the Government's Financial Sector Reform Program,
as stated in the letter of Policy Development of March 11, 1994; and that the loan had achieved its
objective in terms of this component. This conclusion proved to be too optimistic, as political
factors prevented the BCP from implementing the newly approved legislation and regulations and
from effectively intervene and close the insolvent banks during the on-going financial crises.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retuirn:
29.   Not applicable.
4 4 Financial rate of return:
30.   The financial rate of return of the project as a whole is not available. The sub-projects
were supposed to show a rate of return of at least 12%. According to FDI estimates the average
-9-



internal rate of return of the sub-projects was 40.6% for Loan 3774-PA and 33.4% for Loan
3775-PA. There is no information on the ex-post rate of return of the sub-projects.
4.5 Institutional development impact
31.   The institutional development impact of the project was modest. Some institutional
development was induced through the credit line component in the UTEP and in some of the
PFIs. The UTEP staff received training on disbursement and accounting among other areas and
some PFIs learned to evaluate medium and long-term sub-loans and became familiar with the
procedures and documentation required for accessing international credit lines. Training for the
latter was provided under the loan through the FDW/UTEP. The BCP and the SB staff also
received some training. As a result, the SB staff had progressed from no supervision of the
banking system to producing and publishing, since early 1997, banking ratings every three
months, based on the CAMEL methodology. Although this represented an improvement in the
assessment of the banks financial situation, the capability of the BCP to intervene and close the
insolvent banks during the financial crisis was still very limited.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or iznplementing agency
32.   Project implementation was adversely affected by the severe crisis in Paraguay's banking
sector that began in 1995, was not fully resolved, and again erupted in 1997. The financial
reforms undertaken in the early 1990's eliminated controls over interest rates and bank portfolios,
liberalized and unified the exchange rate, allowed foreign exchange deposits, reduced interest-free
reserve requirements, curtailed subsidized credit from banks, and lowered entry costs for the
banks through more liberal licensing procedures. These measures increased the number of banks
--many of which were under-capitalized-- and the volume of lending, and caused excessive risk
taking. The latter was due to lack of managerial capacity in the banks to properly evaluate
lending opportunities; the presence of an implicit deposit insurance; and weakly-enforced
prudential regulation. Part of the lending increase of the early 1990's was to finance the active
transshipment of imported goods to Brazil and Argentina. With the entry of Paraguay into
MERCOSUR and the increased restrictions imposed by Brazil on the border trade, the smuggling
economy collapsed, with negative consequences for the banks that had been financing it.
Prudential regulations, which had been partly established under this operation, were relatively
good. However, confronted with a crisis, and in fear of a systemic collapse, the regulators
showed excessive forbearance for troubled institutions.
33.   The banking crisis of 1995 led to the intervention of several insolvent banks, which were
allowed to continue to operate under refinancing agreements. After a hiatus in 1996, the banking
crisis began again in mid-1997 with another wave of bank interventions. There was a run on the
national banks (both private and public) and their deposits fell, as the funds were diverted to
mostly foreign banks. Two banks, including the country's largest locally owned bank (BU), were
intervened in June 1997. As the situation further deteriorated, two other banks: BNT and BD,
were also intervened. A major public bank, BNF, was also in distress. These banks were
permitted to operate under refinancing agreements, which greatly delayed the resolution of their
situation.
- 10-



34.   The banking crises, especially the one in 1997, severely affected project implementation
and the outcome of the project, since the four intervened banks and the BNF had intermediated
the bulk of the Bank loans and were all experiencing serious arrears problem in their portfolios.
When these banks were disqualified from further participation in the Bank credit lines, the number
of participating banks was reduced to a few newly established and small local banks. A Bank
supervision mission in June 1997, found that 42.6% of the disbursed sub-loans were in arrears
(they had payments due for 60 or more days). The arrears problem affecting the Bank credit lines
was, to a large extent, a reflection of the difficulties experienced by the industrial sector, which
contracted by about 2.2% in 1996 and had continued depressed in 1997. The uncertain situation
of many banks and the disruption in the payment system contributed to the decision by a number
of sub-borrowers of not to repay their loans.  Following the supervision mission, the Bank
informed the Borrower that no further sub-loans would be approved until the arrears situation had
been reduced to an acceptable level.
35.    Facing potential suspension of disbursements, a Borrower's delegation visited Washington
in July 1997, to propose an arrears reduction plan to the Bank. The Bank and the Borrower
agreed that the arrears situation should be reduced to 8% by December 1997. The loan recovery
plan was able to reduce the level of arrears in the Bank financed sub-loans to 18.4% at the end of
September 1997. The latter level of arrears was still unacceptably high, as it meant that out of 88
disbursed sub-projects, 22 were in arrears for an amount of US$6.1 million. Although according
to the Government, a further resolution of several of the intervened banks, including; BU, BNT,
BD and BNF, could have led to a reduction in the level of arrears in these banks to about 13%.
However, this level was still too high for the Bank that had required a reduction in the arrears
level to 8%.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control
36.   Government Commitment.    Lack of consistent Government political will and
comnmitment as well as procrastination by the authorities frequently frustrated both project
preparation and implementation efforts.  Project preparation suffered delays awaiting the
Government's decision on whether to adopt the financial sector conditionality of the project. The
general elections in early 1993 also delayed the Government's decision on a number of actions,
such as presenting the draft Central Bank and Banking Laws to Congress. Lack of political will
and commitment delayed important decisions in several other instances: First, extensive delays in
the passage of the draft Central Bank and Banking Laws by Congress (a draft Central Bank Law
bill had been submitted to Congress in 1993, but was not approved until after the crisis in 1995)
failed to provide the BCP with the timely legal framework and the authority to institute
mandatory external auditing of the financially troubled banks and to execute remedies before the
banking crisis of 1995 set in.  Second, even after the passage of the legislation, there was
reluctance on the part of BCP to implement the enacted laws and to inform the Bank and the
FDI/UTEP about the distressed financial status of several of the participating banks. Third,
political interference prevented the authorities from disqualifying these banks from further
intermediation of the Bank loans, even when requested by the Bank.
37.   Change of Executing Unit. The last minute change in the location of the executing unit
and the transfer of the responsibility from the BCP to the FDI caused complications that plagued
the project throughout its implementation. Apart from issues related to the lack of legal stature
-11 -



and adequate budget that are mentioned above, other complications arose due to the
fragmentation of responsibilities between the three agencies participating in the FDI. Critical
functions such as evaluating the financial positions of the participating banks depended on the
BCP; ensuring financial management effectiveness depended on the MOF; and the promotion of
the credit lines depended on the Ministry of Industry. Also, frequent changes (three times) in the
UTEP's management and subsequently in its personnel, further hampered the performance of the
UTEP and adversely affected project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
38.   Management Effectiveness.    Several factors reduced the effectiveness of the
implementing agency in managing the Project. First, the UTEP was new and did not have any
experience in managing a project, let alone administering a second-tier unit. Considerable
technical assistance was, therefore, required to start up and to enhance the UTEP's capabilities in
order to enable it to discharge its duties. As part of this technical assistance, a Chilean consulting
firm was involved since early 1995 in setting up the methods and procedures for the UTEP and
visited Paraguay every three months to review the UTEP's performance. The findings of these
reviews were periodically discussed with the authorities, which then took actions to address the
identified problems. These problems mostly involved irregularities in the use of sub-loan funds on
the part of sub-borrowers. The consultants were also involved in the monitoring and evaluation
of the credit lines through audits of a sample of sub-projects. Prior to the MTR, the Bank was
concerned that the project's price mechanism was not working as expected because: (i) the PFIs
were not passing the benefit of the downward trend in the interest rates (as a result of lowering
the reserve requirements) on to the individual sub-project borrower; and (ii) the authorities were
using moral suasion to limit the spreads charged by the PFIs to the sub-borrowers, which reduced
the interest of the foreign banks to participate in the credit lines. These points were investigated
by a Bank supervision mission (May 7-10, 1996) and were refuted by the authorities.
39.   Second, by transferring the project executing agency and the second-tier unit to the
UTEP, the Government fragmented the responsibility for project execution among several
agencies which had contradictory interests.  One of the most important failures of this
arrangement was the inadequate cooperation by the BCP in terms of alerting the UTEP/FDI of
the poor financial situation of several of the PFIs.
5 4 Costs andfinancing-
40.   The Project's original closing date of 12/31/1999 was extended to 06/30/2001 after the
Project was restructured. During the initial phases of project implementation, only projects that
generated foreign exchange and were related to exports could borrow in US dollars. Later on,
the relative attractiveness of interest rates on dollar versus Guarani denominated sub-loans
(6.64% versus 15.34% respectively on August 16, 1996 under a relatively stable exchange rate,
for instance) ultimately caused most lending to be undertaken in US dollar terms.
41.   As of December 31, 1997, the two Bank loans had committed US$37.4 million for 92
sub-projects and disbursed US$34.8 million for 88 sub-projects. Total financing cost of these
sub-projects amounted to US$113.41 million, of which the Bank loans contributed to 30.7%, the
PFIs to 6.9% and the sub-borrowers to 62.4%. About 19.5% of the sub-loans were in arrears
(down from nearly 43% in mid-1997), almost entirely among the decertified banks. Despite the
- 12 -



high level of arrears, all the intermediary banks were repaying their loans to the second-tier
agency. This was because the BCP had implemented a system of automatic debit from the PFIs'
reserve accounts, and the payment obligations of the sub-borrowers (including the guarantees)
were all endorsed to the MOF by the PFIs.
42.   The closing date of the Japanese Grant that supported the technical assistance under the
loan was extended several times to 06/30/1997.  The reasons for these delays were already
discussed above. The devaluation of the US dollar versus the Japanese Yen in the first half of
1994 increased the value of the Grant in dollar terms by US$0.45 million. This increase was used
to contract experts and purchase equipment to strengthen several areas in the BCP (including
external debt, macro-financial studies, money and exchange rates desks coordination, and the SB).
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating.
43.   Project sustainability is unlikely to occur for this operation for several reasons. There is a
high level of arrears among sub-loans, which implies uncertain outlook for the future sustainability
of the sub-projects. At the time of the ICR preparation, there were 75 sub-loans still active, 65 of
which were managed by four banks under liquidation. The level of arrears among the sub-loans of
banks under liquidation ranged from 67.5% (for the 32 sub-loans managed by BNT), to around
28% for the sub-loans managed by the other banks. On the other hand, the sustainability of the
second-tier unit is highly doubtful due to two factors: First, there is still no legal stature for the
FDI, nor is there an automatic mechanism of regenerating and rotating funds for its operation.
The amortized sub-loans are repaid to the MOF and are not rotated to increase the supply of term
financing. Second, the troubled situation of many local banks has reduced the number of potential
financial intermediaries to on-lend long term funds obtained by the FDI. Third, there are no
long-term funds available for on-lending through the banking system coming from either the
Government (due to a sharp deterioration in public finances) or from external sources (now that
the Government is starting to repay a loan from Taiwan that was partly used to provide funding
for the FDI and other public banks).
44.   Although some of the PFIs acquired project evaluation capabilities as a result of the
project, these capabilities may result in future long-term financing only for the few PFIs that
survived the banking crisis. The sustainability of the institutional strengthening of both the BCP
and the SB will depend on the political will and commitment of the authorities to continue with
these improvements. The record on this has not been impressive in the past, but remains to be
seen in the future.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
45.   The credit line component of this project was closed with the approval by the Board, on
June 17, 1998, of an amendment to transfer the US$15 million outstanding balance to an El Nino
Emergency Assistance component. The FDI continues operating as a second-tier institution
trying to mobilize resources for on-lending through the local banks. However, its capacity to do
so remains hampered by the same problems that affected it during project implementation (see
par. 43).
- 13-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending
46.   The Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification and preparation and
marginally satisfactory during appraisal. The project was identified initially in 1989 as a
quick-disbursing loan supporting policy actions in the area of monetary policy, with a technical
assistance component in support of improving banking prudential regulation and supervision and
of strengthening the SB within the BCP. The project was also to include a line of credit. IDB
was to co-finance the project.
47.   During the identification and preparation stage, extensive consultant and Bank staff efforts
were undertaken to carry out a diagnosis of Paraguay's financial sector and to agree with the
authorities on a program of financial sector reforms that could be supported by a Bank
adjustment operation. Several major modifications were subsequently introduced to the project
design. Since a balance of payments case for a quick-disbursing loan could not be sustained due
to improved macroeconomic conditions, this component of the project was dropped. The project
was reformed to give preeminence to the credit line component. Many of the financial policy
reforms discussed with the Government were incorporated in the new project design as up-front
conditions or as condition for continuation of disbursements after the MTR. The Bank staff
considered that strengthening of the financial sector legal framework, the supervisory function of
the BCP, and improvement of prudential regulation and supervision, the cornerstone of the
project's conditionality, were necessary for the success of the project, as they were to ensure that
the Bank's loans were on-lent to financially sound commercial banks.
48.   Project preparation efforts suffered a hiatus after pre-appraisal/appraisal (January
20-February 7, 1992) for more than a year, due to lack of progress by the Government in
presenting the Central Pank draft law to Congress, which was a condition of negotiations. Bank
staff remained firm against relaxing this condition. The new Government that took office in
August 1993, was more amenable to undertaking the project and Bank staff was prompt in
reinitiating project preparation. The authorities, however, claimed that since President Wasmosy's
party no longer commanded a majority in the legislature, a Development Policy Letter or other
form of conditionality should replace the presentation of the draft Central Bank Law to Congress.
Moreover, the authorities thought, and the Bank agreed, that by negotiating earlier the authorities
could use the prospect of the project as one argument to convince the Congress to approve the
law. This condition wa3, therefore, postponed to the effectiveness of the loans. Later, in 1994, it
was again argued that if the approval of the law was left as a condition of loans' effectiveness, and
the law was delayed in Congress, the Government would have to pay substantial commitment
charges. For this reason, the passage of the law was again postponed as a condition for the MTR
stage (it was eventually approved in May 1996).
49.   Bank expectations that a strengthened legal and regulatory framework would enable the
authorities to deal effectively with problem banks did not materialize. Lack of effective action
during the banking crisis proved that the Government lacked the political will and commitment to
fully implement these laws and regulations. In hindsight, the Bank should have proceeded with a
financial sector adjustment loan and a technical assistance operation to strengthen the banking
- 14 -



sector, as initially envisaged, and only proceed with the lines of credit when the financial
conditions had substantially improved.
50.    Bank staff were very effective in incorporating in the project design a pricing mechanism
that was considered, at the time, state of the art for this type of credit line operations (see par. 7).
The staff were less successful in introducing in the project design an effective accreditation
mechanism for the participating banks and to review their accreditation periodically. This task was
given to the SB (through its participation in the CCG). Eventually, the SB failed to warn the
Bank and the UTEP/FDI of the troubled financial situation of several of the PFIs. Finally,
confronted with the need to strengthen the recently created Project Executing Agency-UTEP, to
act as a second-tier unit, the Bank staff was resourceful in reaching an agreement with a Chilean
consulting firm to assist the UTEP to develop and establish manuals and operating procedures.
7 2 Supervision
51.   The Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory.  Bank staff coordinated
successfully with IDB and IMF staff to review the quality of the Central Bank and Banking Laws
approved by Congress and of the prudential regulations issued by the BCP.  Monitoring and
evaluation of the credit lines was undertaken through the Chilean consulting firm and was
complemented by the Bank supervision missions and the MTR. The Bank staff meticulously
cleared the ex-ante sub-loan applications received from the executing agency and rigorously
followed the requirements of the Loan Agreements.
52.   The Bank staff were not warned and advised in a timely manner by the authorities of the
financial stress of the PFIs during the 1997 banking crisis. As soon as it became aware of the
problems affecting several of the most important intermediaries, the Bank requested their
decertification and informed the Borrower that no new sub-loans would be approved until the
arrears situation in these banks was substantially improved. The Bank hired an Argentine
consulting firm to assess the financial situation of the remaining PFIs. The consultant's report
(July 1997) confirmed that four remaining PFIs were solvent, but their capacity to act as financial
intermediaries was limited due to their small size. When it became clear that the arrears situation
would not improve and that the remaining PFIs would not be able to intermediate the credit lines
effectively, the staff proposed suspension of disbursements followed up by cancellation of the
loans. In response to the authorities' concerns about the negative repercussions that cancellation
of the loans could have on the on-going financial crisis, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to
restructure the project in June 1998, and transfer the balance of both loans to a new project
component to address the effects of the El Nino phenomenon (par. 15 above). In restructuring the
project, instead of canceling it, the Bank showed a great deal of sensibility to the worries and
concerns of the Borrower.
7.3 Overall Bank performance
53.   Overall, the Bank's performance in preparation and supervision of the project was
satisfactory (see Annex 6.1). The change in the task management of the project after the appraisal
in May 1992 was not a factor in the hiatus in the project preparation that followed. This was
because the new task manager had already prepared a sector report on the Paraguay participation
in MERCOSUR, and was well known to the authorities. In transferring the uncommitted funds to
finance an El Nino emergency program, instead on canceling the loans when the conditions of the
- 15-



banking sector deteriorated, the Bank showed responsiveness and understanding to the
Government's concems. The project did not benefit from the Government political commitment
and, at the end, it was not successful in achieving its original objectives, despite considerable high
quality efforts by Bank staff and consultants.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation-
54.   The Borrower's performance during project preparation was unsatisfactory.  The
preparation efforts suffered several set backs and delays due to lack of consensus within the
Government with respect to the design of the project. For instance, after the pre-appraisal in
January 1992, the Minister of Finance was reluctanct to the idea of the credit line primarily for
three reasons: (i) he was not convinced that the Government should guarantee a credit line led by
the private banks; (ii) the credit was supposed to have long-run payoff for the MOF, but the
short-run political costs in terms of conditionality were high for the Governnent; and (iii) he was
keen on a quick-disbursement, as a means to replenish the reserves, following the regularization
of the external debt at the time, so as to benefit from a quick payoff. The Minister of Industry, on
the other hand, was very keen on the credit line component as a means to provide access to
long-term financing to his constituency in the industrial sector.  Finally, the BCP was uneasy
with its initial role as second-tier agency and declined this responsibility on the eve of project
effectiveness.
7.5 Govemnment implementation performance
55.   The Government's performance during implementation was also unsatisfactory.
56.   Central Bank. The last minute decision by the BCP to abdicate the responsibility for
executing the project and acting as the second-tier unit delayed the execution of the project and
may have jeopardized its sustainability. Considerable technical assistance had to be provided to
enhance the project implementation capabilities of the newly created UTEP. The BCP (through
the SB) agreed to provide information to the UTEP on the financial situation of the prospective
PFIs. However, once the banks were approved, the SB did not do any follow-up of them on
behalf of the project. Although represented in the CCG, the SB did not effectively and timely
share and communicate information on the distressed financial situation of several of the PFIs to
the implementing agency (FDI) and the Bank.
57.   Ministry of Industry. The Ministry of Industry was one of the stakeholders of the
project, as most of the beneficiaries of the sub-loans belonged to various industries. Moreover,
the Vice- Minister of Industry was on the CCG of the implementing agency and could veto the
participation of the financially troubled banks to safeguard the project funds and ensure the
successful operation of the project. Instead, the project suffered from unreasonable political
interference and moral suasion that was allegedly pursued by the Ministry to limit the interest
rates charged by the participating banks. During the banking crisis, the Ministry was reluctant to
agree on the decertification of some troubled PFIs. The Bank staff had to eventually propose the
suspension of the operation to achieve the decertification of these banks.
58.   Ministry of Finance. The MOF, as the representative of the Borrower and as a member
of the CCG, was also a major stakeholder in the project. The performance of the MOF was also
- 16-



less than satisfactory. Delays by the MOF in presenting the Central Bank Law to the Congress,
due to disagreements between the MOF and the BCP on the degree of independence of the latter,
adversely affected project performance. These delays also deprived the BCP of the adequate and
timely instruments to face the financial crises when they occurred. In addition, the MOF did not
provide the executing agency with the adequate budget to perform its duties effectively.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
59.   Project Executing Unit. The performance of the UTEP was mostly satisfactory,
especially in coping with the factors beyond its control. It, for the most part, performed adequate
review of sub-project evaluations; utilized technical assistance funds to develop and improve the
technical skills of its staff; arranged training to enhance the project evaluation capabilities of the
participating banks; complied with the procurement, disbursement and auditing rules; and
requested minor changes in procedures when warranted. The UTEP also performed satisfactorily
in preparing and submitting to the Bank periodic progress reports on project implementation and
in maintaining supporting documentation on the sub-loans.  Also, the UTEP performed
satisfactorily in having its accounts audited and in submitting the audit reports to the Bank.
Important deviations in the UTEP's performance were: (i) the failure to have the accounts of the
PFIs audited annually by external auditors; and (ii) the failure to inform the Bank about the
troubled financial situation of some of the PFIs and the elevated level of arrears in the sub-loan.
Fragmentation of the project execution responsibility among the various stakeholders, the
reluctance of the FDI to expose the weaknesses of government PFIs, and the weakness of the SB
to enforce its own norms and regulations were to be blamed for these shortfalls.
60.   Participating Financial Intermediaries. Performance of the PFIs was unsatisfactory,
with few exceptions. Initially, lack of sub-project evaluation skills among the participating banks
was seen as the main problem that the banks had in utilizing the loans. Some PFIs sought
assistance from the Ministry of Industry to evaluate the sub-project proposals that they received
from their clients. The involvement of the Ministry of Industry was not considered to be an ideal
situation, as it could have biased the selection of the sub-projects. To address this problem, the
UTEP organized project evaluation courses for the PFIs and some enterprises with Japanese
Grant financing. While some PFIs benefited from this training and were able to create their own
project evaluation teams, the public banks and other PFIs that were later intervened, clearly
financed sub-projects based on non business criteria, regardless of the training that they received
on project evaluation.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance.
61. Overall, the Borrower's performance was fair at best and unsatisfactory on a stricter basis (see
Annex 6.2). Shortcomings in some aspects of the Borrower's performance during the preparation
and implementation stages overwhelmed pockets of good work within the executing agency.
8. Lessons Learned
62.   Two main lessons can be learned from this operation:
*     New laws and regulations are not sufficient to produce effective policy changes if
there is no political will to apply them. The Government's commitment to the financial sector
reforms agreed under this project was subdued. This was demonstrated at different stages of this
- 17 -



operation in the form of delays in submitting the new banking legislation to Congress (Banking
Law, Central Bank Law and Insurance Law) and in the time it took Congress to approve them.
Moreover, even after the financial crisis accelerated the approval of the new laws and
regulations, the authorities were not able to muster the political will to apply them in a timely and
consistent manner. Even in the midst of a second bout of financial sector instability, the
Government failed to take timely remedial actions to close the bankrupt financial institutiens, and
incurred in great financial commitments to keep them in operation. This project demonstrates that
approving laws and regulations is not sufficient to produce effective policy changes if they are not
followed by the political will to implement the new rules.
*     Effective strengthening of the financial sector legal and regulatory framework
should precede any credit line operation, not accompany it. This project demonstrates that it
is highly risky to proceed with a credit line operation in a country where the banking system is
very weak and inefficient, the regulatory framework is poor, and political influences thrive. The
Bank was aware of these shortcomings and conditioned Board presentation and project
continuation after the MTR to specific actions to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework
of the financial sector. However, the strengthening of the banking sector regulatory framework
takes time, even if there is political will. In this type of environment, it is very difficult for the
Bank and the executing agencies to know the real situation of the potential financial
intermediaries.
*     Credit lines should not use public banks as financial intermediaries. This project
demonstrates that when public banks operate as first-tier lenders they develop a culture of
lending based on political considerations and are unwilling to recover their loans.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
63.   Annex 8 summarizes the project implementation report prepared by the Borrower.
(b) Cofinanciers.
64.   Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
65.   During the preparation of this ICR, the Bank team interviewed some of the PFIs. The
managers of Multibanco, the most successful PFI, indicated that the project had been instrumental
in making their bank one of the main providers of medium and long-term financing in Paraguay.
The project helped them to develop a good project evaluation capability, and now they have
access to long-term resources from other multilateral institutions. In their opinion, the FDI's role
as a second-tier agency capable of mobilizing medium and long-term funds for on-lending
through the private banks is still needed.
10. Additional Information
63. Not applicable.
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndlcatorlMatrlx                    Projected In last P$R                 ActuaUlLatest Estimato
INVESTMENT COMPONENT
(A) Key indicators of the projects impact on
increased production of goods and services
by the private sector are:
(i) number of subloans approved       88 subloans were approved/disbursed
(ii)level of disbursements within SAR  disbursements reached US$34 8 million,
estimates                             which exceeded the SAR estimate of US$25
million
(iii) compliance of subborrowers with loan    22 subloans were in arrears, equivalent to
repayment schedules                   US$6 0 million
POLICY COMPONENT
(B) Key indicators of the projects impact on
the strengthening of the banking regulatory
framework:
(i) approval by Congress of the Central  approved May 9,1996
Bank Law
(ii) approval by Congress of the Banking    Approved June 24, 1996
Law
(C) Key indicators of the project's impact on
the strengthening of the supervisory
capability of the Central Bank
(i) adoption of new banking norms and  Effectiveness condition, January 1995
regulations
(ii) publication by the Central Bank of a  Implemented since beginning of 1997
CAMEL type banking classificaton
(iii) effective action by the Central Bank to   Some banks intervened (e g Banco Union)
intervene and close insolvent banks   and closed These were not done in a timely
manner
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No of sub-loans approved/disbursed                                           88 sub-loans were disbursed, equivalent to
US$38 8 million
Enactment of new banking norms and                                           Effectiveness condition met by January 19,
regulations                                                                  1995
Approval by Congress of the Central Bank                                     Approved on May 9, 1996
Law
Approval by Congress of the Banking Law                                      Approved on June 24,1996
End of project
12/30/1997
19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
INVESTMENT COMPONENT                                86.00          113.40
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT                       3.95           4.15
EL NINO ASSISTANCE COMPONENT                                        16.80
Total Baseline Cost                                 89.95          134.35
Total Project Costs            89.95          134.35
Total Financing Required             89.95          134.35
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB Pchen2                N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Subloans (Goods and       6.00          0.00        44.00        36.00        86.00
Works)
(6.00)       (0.00)       (44.00)      (0.00)      (50.00)
5. Technical Assistance      0.00         0.00          0.00         3.95         3.95
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     6.00          0.00        44.00         39.95        89.95
(6.00)       (0.00)       (44.00)      (0.00)      (50.00)
/ Established commercial practices
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICBCB B                   0tho2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Subloans (Goods and       0.00          0.00        34.80        78.60        113.40
Works)
- 20 -



(0.00)         (0.00)        (34.80)        (0.00)       (34.80)
5. Technical Assistance         0.00            0.00          0.00           3.95          3.95
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)        (0.20)
Total                        0.00            0.00          34.80         82.55         117.35
(0.00)         (0.00)        (35.00)        (0.00)       (35.00)
Note: Data does not include the El Nino Component.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of' Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoP.
INVESTMENT                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0
World Bank               50.00                         34.80                         69.6   0.0    0.0
Intermediary Banks                           10.00                           7.78     0.0    0 0    77.8
Subborrowers                                 26.00                          70.83     0.0    0.0   272.4
TECHNICAL                                                                             0.0    0.0    0.0
ASSISTANCE
World Bank                                              0.20                          0.0    0.0    0.0
1DB (soft loan)                               1.00                           1.00     0.0    0.0   100.0
Japan (grant)                                 2.50                           2.50     0.0    0.0   100.0
UNDP (grant)                                  0.45                           0.45     0.0    0.0   100.0
EL NINO ASSISTANCE                                      15.00                1.80     0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                    50.00               39.95     50.00                84.36    100.0   0.0   211.2
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Perfoace Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/ear    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/1990                       1   Sr. Financial Economist/Task
Manager
I   Consultant
I   Country Officer
I   Sr. Operations Officer
I   Principal Economist
06/1990                       1   Sr. Financial Economist/Task
Manager
I   Principal Economist
I   Banking Specialist/Consultant
2   Financial Specialist
I   Country Officer
I   Economist
10-11/1990                    1   Sr. Financial Economist/Task
Manager
I   Principal Economist
I   Lawyer
2   Financial Specialist
I   Country Officer
I   Economist
02/1991                       1   Financial Specialist
03/1991                       1   Sr Financial Economist/Task
Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/1992                       1   Sr. Financial
Economist/Task Manager
1   Financial Specialist
1   Economist
I   Environmental Specialist
I   Consultant
10/1992                       1   Sr. Economist/Task Manager
09/1993                       1   Division Chief
I   Sr. Economist/Task Manager
Supervision
10/1994                        1  Sr. Economist/Task Manager            S                 S
05/1995                        1  Sr. Economist/Task Manager           U                  S
I  Consultant/Banking Specialist
05/1996                        1  Sr. Economist/Task Manager            S                 U
I  Financial Sector Specilist
11/1996                        1  Sr. Economist/Task Manager           S                  S
06/1997                        1  Sr. Economist/Task Manager           U                 HU
I  Financial Sector Specialist
- 23 -



ICR
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycic                  -   Actual/Latest Estimate
___________________  No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 146.5                         394.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                       45.9                          144.7
Supervision                                 47.5                         186.3
ICR                                          9.8                         23.6*
Total                                      249.7                         749.3
* ICR of the Credit Line Component.
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                         0 H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Physical                               O H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
O Financial                              OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
L Institutional Development              0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               OH  OSUOM  *N  O NA
LI Gender                         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
L Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
L Private sector development             O H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management               O H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 0 H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS*S Ou OHU
] Supervision                                       OHS  Os  Ou  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS Ou O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  * U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S  * U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O U  O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Quarterly Progress Reports prepared by the Consultants Miguel Saavedra y Pelayo Arrieta
*   Forms 590, several
*   Audit Reports, several
*   Borrower's Final Evaluation Report
- 27 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Summary
Summary of Report Prepared by the FDI on the Credit Lines Component
1. Evaluation of the Objectives and Design of the Project.
1.1 Objective
a) To strengthen the private sector in a way that it can collaborate with the Borrower in th e task
of promoting the economic development of the country. Despite the broad definition of this
objective, it can be concluded that the industrial sector was strengthened as a result of the Project,
with the incorporation of technology and the use of unemployed labor through the creation of
new enterprises and the implementation of new production lines. The collaboration between the
public and the private sector was partially accomplished, otherwise the program would not have
been implemented. Nevertheless, the initial lack of credit of the potential subborrowers and the
bureaucracy of the public sector limited the effective coordination and caused delays.
b) To continue and strengthen the reform of the financial sector, to improve efficiency in the
mobilization and use of resources and offinancial intermediation. It can be concluded that there
was a deepening of the financial system with the creation of units to analyze medium and
long-term projects in the intermediary banks. The incorporation of this technology allowed
several financial intermediaries to access long-term resources in the international market without
the assistance of the FDI. There is, therefore, a new product that is being incorporated by the
banks and the private sector. However, the efficiency in the mobilization of resources under the
project was limited due to constrains in the capability of the public sector to transfer the long term
resources to the private sector.
c) To provide medium and long-term credit to financial institutions for on-lending to the private
sector to finance the creation, expansion, and modernization of productive activities. This
objective was fully met.
1.2 Design
The design should have provided for the necessary legal stature of the FDI, in order to give it
greater autonomy and agility in its operations. The Banking Law and the Bankruptcy Law do not
contemplate the figure of a second-tier bank, such as the FDI. This is a point that was not
adequately considered during project design. As created, the FDI depends on several other
agencies, which generates delays in its operations and duplication of activities. Some basic
activities for a second-tier bank, such as the analysis of the intermediary banks, was relegated to
agencies over which the FDI had no control. Future operations should reflect the need to keep
the critical processes within the area of influence of the project implementation unit. There is also
the possibility of conflict between the commercial decisions of a second-tier bank and the
development objectives of the Borrower. In this context, it is important to incorporate the
concept of second-tier financial intermediaries in the Banking Law.
- 28 -



2. Achievement of the Project in terms of objectives and outputs
2.1 Channeling of resources
The main achievements of the project, as of early 2000, result from the channeling of resources
to the private sector. Of all the credit lines intermediated by the FDI, the Bank loans represent
25% of the administered resources which amount to US$138.9 million. The Bank loans financed
88 sub-projects for a total of US$34.81 million. The sector with most sub-loans was food
processing with 29 sub-loans, for a total of US$12.9 million and the creation of 1,083 new jobs.
Other sectors assisted with several sub-loans were: the service sector with 11 sub-loans (US$4.6
million and 235 new jobs) and the mining sector with 10 sub-loans (US$3.4 million and 321 new
jobs). Most of the sub-loans concentrated in the Central Department (30), followed by Capital
(27) and Iapua (9).
2.2 Incorporation of technology
The financial intermediaries incorporated the analysis of medium and long-term projects as a new
credit tool. These skills have allowed the financial intermediaries to access international
long-term  funds.  This means that there has been a deepening of the financial sector.
Nevertheless, the FDI continues to be the main source of long-term funds for small and medium
financial intermediaries. The FDI is necessary due to the absence of long-term savings in the
private local banks and the little development of the capital markets. Only the foreign banks have
access to external resources, which they channel to more profitable short term loans.
3. Main factors affecting project implementation
3.1 External Factors
The main external factors that affected the project were two major financial crisis that erupted
during the time that the FDI operated as a second-tier bank. The first crisis in 1995 led to the
closing of several banks. However, the second banking crisis that started in 1997 and continued
in 1998, affected the FDI even more. During this time, six of the intermediary banks were
intervened and are now in the process of liquidation. This situation highlights the shortcoming of
the adopted scheme, such as the absence of an analysis of the financial intermediaries by the FDI
(the analysis was in the hands of the Superintendency of Banks), and the little margin of action of
the FDI due to lack of legal stature. Another external factor that affected the project was the
recession of the Paraguayan economy linked to a contraction in its main agricultural exports.
3.2 Internal Factors
The main internal factors that affected project implementation are the following:
*  Lack of legal stature of the FDI, which limited its ability to conduct its activities in a more
independent and less bureaucratic manner;
* Delegation of critical activities to other agencies, such as the analysis of the financial
- 29 -



intermediaries, which made the efficiency in channeling the resources dependent on the other
agencies;
* Lack of definition of "financial intermediation" in the Banking Law precluded any special
protection of the FDI financed sub-loans from the liquidation of the financial intermediarnes;
*  Different priorities between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce gave conflicting signals to the FDI; and
* The frequent changes in the administration were both internal and external factors that
affected the project.
4. Project Sustainability
Project sustainability is limited by the fact that the recovery of the sub-loans channeled through
the FDI are not used for further lending. The recoveries are deposited in the accounts of the
Ministry of Finance for other uses. The sustainability of the project cannot be considered, unless
a mechanism of revolving funds is established to finance the cost of administration of the FDI.
The administrative expenses of the FDI correspond to 0.34% of the loan portfolio. To make the
project sustainable, it is also important to provide legal stature to the FDI.
Some achievements of the project are, however, independent of the permanence of the FDI. The
capabilities to analyze long-term credits, the credit technology, and the concept of second-tier
banking have been incorporated permanently in some institutions.
5. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
5.1 Performance of the Bank
The relationship with the Bank, prior to the reassignment of the undisbursed funds to El Nino
Component, have always been agile and quick. All situations that required a redefinition of
parameters were well addressed and authorized by the different levels of authority in the Bank.
Some difficulties in the performance of the Program were the result of problems in the design of
the Project, which was agreed by both the Borrower and the Bank.
5.2 Performance of the Borrower
The Borrower (Ministry of Finance), in its role of administrator of the resources, uses an scheme
of on-lending which does not meet the requirements of the private sector. Several studies carried
out by the FDI and the Ministry of Finance have identified some bottlenecks in the operating
procedures of the administration of the credit lines. Several improvements were made, but with
only partial success. The bureaucratic procedures, the resistance to change, the lack of credit of
the private sector, and the lack of identification with the program, limited the agility of the
transfer of resources and, therefore, the success in meeting the objectives of the program. On the
other hand, it was always priority of the Ministry of Finance to meet its obligations with the
intemational agencies supplying the funds. This will permit access to additional funds in the
future.
- 30 -



6. Lessons Learned
*  In a conflicting situation, the autonomy and sustainabilty of an institution is important,
particularly when it deals with the private sector. This is a consideration that should be
incorporated in the design of the program, in order to meet the intended objectives;
*  It is important to differentiate the banking functions of the second-tier bank from those
oriented to social and economic development. These priorities may sometimes collide with
the financial priorities;
*  A second-tier bank requires substantial technical assistance. It is important to incorporate
international experiences, adapting them to the local circumstances. A greater participation,
together with greater responsibility of the implementing agency, should be considered;
*  The lack of agility in the administration of the program is an internal issue that should be
addressed through the reform of the State.  In the meantime, it is important to assess the
strengths and shortcomings of the agencies involved, and design a program taking into
account the real circumstances; and
*  Concluding, we would like to see strengthened credit line operations, through second-tier
banks, as development tools. This can be achieved with a small structure, great autonomy and
responsibilities clearly assign.
- 31 -



