Page  1
January 18, 1995
     Mr. Orlando Barreiro Aguilera
     Minister of Finance
     Ministry of Finance
     Chile No.128
     Asuncion, Paraguay
                               Re:
PARAGUAY: Loans Nos. 3774 PA and
3775 PA (Private Sector Development
Project) Amendment to the Loan
Agreement and SC-Loan Agreement
         Dear Minister Barreiro:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated July 20, 1994, between Republic of Paraguay (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the SC-Loan 
Agreement , dated 
July 20, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank.
In response to the Borrower's request dated January 16, 1995 to replace: (a) BCP by UTEP (as the 
agent of the Borrower); (b) EIAU by DOA; and (c) the interest rate to be applied to SC-Intermediary 
loans and SC-Subloans, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement and the SC-Loan Agreement as follows:
           I. Loan Agreement
           1. Section 1.02 is hereby amended as follows:
(a) The term "BCP Agreement" and its definition referred to in paragraph (b) are replaced by the 
term "
Comité
"
and its definition which shall read as follows: " 'Comité
'
means the Coordination and 
Management Committee (Comité
de
Coordinación
y
Gestión
)
of
the Borrower established pursuant to 
Decree No. 5554 of  September 7, 1994;";
(b) The definition of the term "Credit Regulation Manual" referred to in paragraph (c) is 
amended to read as follows: " 'Credit Regulation Manual' means the Borrower's credit regulations (
Reglamento
de
Crédito
)
and environmental procedures to be approved by the Comité 
in accordance with Section 6.01(d) 
of this Agreement;";
(c) The term "EIAU" and its definition referred to in paragraph (d) is replaced by the 
term "DOA" and its definition which shall read as follows: " 'DOA' means the Office of Environmental 
Control (Dirección
de
Ordenamiento
Ambiental
)
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio
de
Page  2
Agricultura
y
Ganadería
);"; 
(d) The term "LIBOR Rate" and its definition referred to in paragraph (l) are replaced by the 
term "Interinstitutional  Agreement" and its definition which shall read as follows: " 'Interinstitutional 
Agreement'
means the agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower, through , the Ministry of Finance (
Ministerio
de
Hacienda
)
and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Ministerio
de
Industrias
y
Comercio
)
and BCP, for purposes of establishing the duties and responsibilities of each of such entities 
in order to carry pout the Project, in accordance with Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement;";
(e) the definition of the term "Operating Policy Guidelines” referred to in paragraph (m) 
is amended to read as follows: "'Operating Policy Guidelines' means the regulations governing UTEP's 
activities under
the Project to be approved by the Borrower, through Comité
,
in accordance with Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement;"; and
(f) the term "UTP" and its definition referred to in paragraph (x) are replaced by the term 
"UTEP" and its definition which shall read as follows: " 'UTEP' means the technical executing entity (
Unidad
Técnica
Ejecutora
de
Proyectos
)
to be created within the Fondo
de
Desarrollo
Industrial 
of the Borrower, in 
accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;".
           2. Section 3.01.(a)  is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through UTEP, and with the participation of 
Comité
 and
the Financial Intermediaries, carry out the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and in
accordance with the Interinstitutional Arrangement, the Operating Policy Guidelines and the Credit 
Regulation Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the
Project.".
3. The term “BCP Agreement” referred to in paragraphs (b) and (e) of Sections 3.01 and 5.01, 
respectively, is replaced by the term “Interinstitutional Agreement”.
4. The term "BCP" referred to in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.07, 3.10, 4.01 and 4.02,  paragraphs 2 (b) 
and  3 (c) (iii) and (iv) of Section I of Schedule 7 and paragraph 4 of  Section II of such Schedule is 
replaced by the term "UTEP".
5. The terms "UTP" and "EIAU" referred to in Section 3.07 are replaced by the terms "UTEP" and 
"DOA", respectively.
6. The term "BCP" referred to in the second line of paragraph (a) of Section 3.08 and the term 
"EIAU" referred to in such Section are replaced by the terms "UTEP" and "DOA", respectively.
Page  3
7. The term "EIAU" referred to in Section 3.09, paragraphs 5 of Section I of Schedule 7 and 
paragraphs 1 and 6 (g) of Section II of such Schedule is replaced by the term "DOA".
         8.  Section 3.05. is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain at all times the UTEP with a budget 
and functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the UTEP is at all times headed by one qualified 
professional acceptable to the Bank, and assisted by staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank.".
10. The conditions referred to in paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e) and (g) of  Section 6.01 are amended to 
read as follows:
“(a) that the Borrower, through UTEP, with the participation of Comité
shall have entered into 
Participation Agreements with at least three different Financial Intermediaries under this Agreement or 
the SC-Loan Agreement;    
(c) that the UTEP has: (i) been established; (ii) been assigned a budget; and (iii) employed staff, all 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) that the Credit Regulation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly approved by the 
Borrower, through Comité
;
(e) that the Operating Policy Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, have been duly approved by 
the Borrower through  Comité
;
(g) that the Interinstitutional Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly executed and 
delivered by the respective entities;".
     II.  SC-Loan Agreement
1.   The term "BCP" referred to in Section 3.02 and paragraph 3 (c) (iii) and (iv) of Section I of 
Schedule 5 is replaced with the term "UTEP".
2. 
The term "EIAU" referred to in paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 5 and paragraphs 1 and 6 
(g) of  Section II of such Schedule is replaced with the term "DOA".
         3. Paragraph 2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 5 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"(b) the interest rate on SC-Intermediary Loans shall be a rate equal to the Single Currency 
Libor (as such term is defined in Section 2.05 (b) (iii) of this Agreement), plus a specified spread to be 
calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to reflect: (i) Paraguay's country risk (to be determined by 
the difference between the annual average interest rate paid by financial institutions in the Borrower's 
territory on time deposits in Dollars and the Single Currency Libor); and (ii) the maturity period of the 
SC-Intermediary Loan. Such rate shall be adjusted every six months during the maturity of the 
SC-Intermediary Loan; and ".
III. EFFECTIVENESS
Page  4
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an original, 
and shall become effective on the date in which the Bank has received one fully executed original of such 
Amendment Letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the two 
counterparts of this Amendment Letter. Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed 
original to us.
Very truly yours,
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By_________________________
   Authorized Representative
Date:________________________
