Page  1
May 5, 1997
The Hon. Musalia Mudavadi
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Excellency:
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Environmental Management Project
Grant Number TF029240
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding fifty-four million four hundred thousand yen (¥ 54,400,000) (the Grant) to Republic of 
Kenya (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Harold Wackman
Country Director, Kenya & Djibouti
World Bank--Kenya
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/
W. Musalia Mudavadi
Minister of Finance
Date: May 22, 1997
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Activities
1.1.
The objective of the Grant is to prepare the Environmental Management Project.  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Preparation of a framework for following through on the policy, legislative and 
institutional reforms proposed in the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).  Specifically, 
technical assistance will be provided to clarify the options for implementing an appropriate 
institutional structure and legal framework to coordinate, enable and, where necessary, enforce 
environmental policies and legislation, to assess the economic and financial costs of continued 
environmental degradation and to focus on the range of fiscal and monetary policies at the macro 
level which could be modified to reduce environmental degradation.  Technical input will be provided 
to the Task Force on the Preparation of the Kenya Environment and Adjustment Program, chaired by 
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.
(b)
Identification of priorities and preparation of a program of environmental investment, 
which may include environmental education and information, for instance, providing training in 
environmental policy formulation and planning and in environmental impact assessment to key 
Government personnel across ministries.  It may also be used for designing a National Environment 
Information System (also proposed in the NEAP) with responsibilities for harmonizing the collection, 
analysis, storage, retrieval and dissemination of environmental information.
(c)
Definition of a framework mechanism for local environmental management planning, 
focusing on priority needs at the community level, and consistent with the Government's program on 
Social Dimensions of Development.  Technical assistance to identify this framework will be a critical 
component of this activity.
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress 
and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Republic of Kenya for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for the 
carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
Page  3
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated (in
Expenditures
Item
Japanese Yen
)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
35,360,000
100%
services
(2)
Workshops
19,040,000
100%
54,400,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall be made: (i) 
for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account 
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to 
IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after two years of the date hereof or such later 
date as IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding 
application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in 
IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 
above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, it may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which in its 
opinion will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Page  4
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient; and (c) services associated with 
preparing and convening workshops, costing less than $10,000 equivalent. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
Convening of Workshops
.
A
budget, timetable, planned participants' list, and a workshop 
program with a clear indication of its objectives and intended outcome will be prepared for prior 
review by IDA in the event that workshop expenditures are expected to exceed $10,000 equivalent.
4.8.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in US 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out 
the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  5
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA 
shall have been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Employment of Consultants
.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines. Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For 
complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants’ services issued by IDA, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by 
IDA.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by IDA, other standard forms 
acceptable to IDA shall be used.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior IDA review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:  (a) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent each, 
or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $ 25,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior IDA review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by IDA, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $ 50,000 equivalent or above, (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $ 25,000 
equivalent or above. With respect to each contract not governed by this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
Page  6
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost 
of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
Page  7
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
