Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3774 PA
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Private Sector Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 20, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3774 PA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      Agreement, dated July 20, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank
is also providing a single currency loan in the principal amount equivalent
to twenty-five million Dollars (the SC-Loan Agreement);
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter dated March 11, 1994 (the Policy
Letter) from the Borrower describing a program (the Program) of actions,
policies and objectives designed, inter alia, to reform the Borrower's
financial sector, restructure the functions and responsibilities of the
Borrower's Central Bank - Banco Central del Paraguay (BCP), maintain the
current regime of market-determined interest rates and foster private sector
development in Paraguay, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                            General Conditions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Banking Regulations" means BCP's regulations concerning matters
related to accounting, assets classification and operation of trust funds
to be issued by BCP in accordance with Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as such regulations are described in Annex 2 to the Implementation Letter;
      (b)   "BCP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda), and
BCP, with the participation of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
(Ministerio de Industria y Comercio), for purposes of establishing the
duties and responsibilities of the parties to such agreement in order to
carry out the Project, in accordance with Section 6.01 (g) of this
Agreement;
      (c)   "Credit Regulation Manual" means the Borrower's credit
regulations (Reglamento de Credito) and environmental procedures to be
approved by the Borrower and BCP in accordance with Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
      (d)   "EIAU" means the Environmental Impact Assessment Unit (Unidad
de Evaluacion del Impacto Ambiental) within the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia);
      (e)   "Financial Intermediary" means any state-owned commercial bank
or any private commercial bank or private finance company or savings
cooperative legally established and operating in the territory of the
Borrower, which is in good standing with the BCP and meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (f)   "Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan of the type referred to in
paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "Guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (h)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith
from the Borrower to the Bank describing: (i) the actions to be undertaken
by the Borrower as referred to in Section 3.08 (c) (iii) of this Agreement;
(ii) the Banking Regulations; (iii) the terms of the broader technical
functions of SB, as referred to in Section 6.01 (h) of this Agreement; and
(iv) the qualifications of the head of SB, as referred to in Section 6.01
(i) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Intermediary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made,
with the proceeds of the Loan and pursuant to a Participation Agreement, by
the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary;
      (j)   "Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise engaged in,
or to be established for the purpose of engaging in a productive activity
and to which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a
Subloan;
      (k)   "Investment Project" means a specific project (relating to the
carrying out of productive activities and services such as manufacturing,
mining, fishing, food production, agriculture and other natural resource
extraction or processing activities and services) to establish an Investment
Enterprise or to increase or improve the physical resources or productivity
Page  3
of an Investment Enterprise, by means of, without limitation, purchase or
construction of fixed assets, and provision of associated working capital,
training or technical services, as required for such Investment Enterprise
to carry out such specific project, and which is financed under a Subloan;
      (l)   "LIBOR Rate" means the average interest rate per annum at which
term deposits in Dollars maturing in six months are offered in the London,
England interbank market at 11:00 am (London time);
      (m)   "Operating Policy Guidelines" means the regulations governing
UTP's activities under the Project to be approved by the Borrower and BCP
in accordance with Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Financial Intermediary pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (o)   "SB" means the Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia de
Bancos) within BCP;
      (p)   "SC-Intermediary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made,
with the proceeds of the SC-Loan and pursuant to a Participation Agreement,
by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary;
      (q)   "SC-Investment Project" means a specific project (relating to
the carrying out of productive activities and services such as
manufacturing, mining, fishing, food production, agriculture and other
natural resource extraction or processing activities and services) to
establish an Investment Enterprise or to increase or improve the physical
resources or productivity of an existing Investment Enterprise, by means of,
without limitation, purchase or construction of fixed assets and provision
of associated working capital, training or technical services, as required
for such Investment Enterprise to carry out such specific project, and which
is financed under a SC-Subloan;
      (r)   "SC-Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made in part
with the proceeds of a SC-Intermediary Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
a SC-Investment Project;
      (s)   "SENASA" means the National Environmental Sanitation Service
(Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental) of the Borrower, established
by Law No. 369/72 (Ley No. 369/72) dated December 1, 1972, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (u)   "Staff Manual" means the manual which describes the duties and
responsibilities of the staff of SB, to be approved by BCP in accordance
with Section 6.01 (j) of this Agreement;
      (v)   "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made in part with
the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project;
      (w)   "Subloan Agreement" means an agreement entered into between an
Investment Enterprise and a Financial Intermediary, for purposes of making
a Subloan;
      (x)   "UTP" means the technical loan unit (Unidad Tecnica de
Prestamos) within BCP, established on November 17, 1993; and
      (y)   "Work Program" means a program of actions, monitorable targets
and objectives, approved by BCP on April 28, 1994, in order to improve BCP's
banking regulatory and supervisory functions (as referred to in Section 3.11
of this Agreement), as such program may be amended in a manner and under
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
Page  4
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise
under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in: (i) BCP on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
Page  5
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall, through BCP, as its agent, and with the participation
of UTP and the Financial Intermediaries, carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental
practices, and in accordance with the BCP Agreement, the Operating Policy
Guidelines and the Credit Regulation Manual, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not: (i) amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce either the Operating
Policy Guidelines or the Credit Regulation Manual or any provision thereof;
and (ii) assign, amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the BCP Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, through BCP, shall relend the proceeds
of the Loan to Financial Intermediaries in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and under Participation Agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower, through BCP, and each Financial
Intermediary containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which
shall include, inter alia: (i) rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Financial Intermediary to use the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Financial Intermediary to perform any of its obligations
under the Participation Agreement; and (ii) the applicable terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower, through BCP, shall exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreements in such a manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through BCP, shall not amend, assign
or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. The
Borrower, through BCP, shall provide to the Bank a copy of each
Participation Agreement immediately after each such Participation Agreement
is entered into.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower, through BCP, undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  6
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause BCP to operate and maintain
at all times the UTP with a budget and functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to
assist BCP in the administration of the proceeds of the Loan to be relent
to Financial Intermediaries.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause BCP to ensure that the UTP is at all
times headed by one qualified professional acceptable to the Bank, and
assisted by staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank.
      Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) shall be
carried out, in respect of Investment Projects, by Investment Enterprises
pursuant to Subloan Agreements.
      Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through BCP, shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, starting
six months after the Effective Date until the completion of the Project, a
semiannual progress report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request on: (a) the progress of the Project, including, inter
alia, the following information, when applicable, on: (i) the interest rates
charged on Intermediary Loans, SC-Intermediary Loans, Subloans and SC-
Subloans; (ii) the amounts repaid under Intermediary Loans, SC-Intermediary
Loans, Subloans and SC-Subloans; (iii) the performance of UTP; and (iv) the
names of the Financial Intermediaries which have entered into Participation
Agreements; and (b) the environmental reviews carried out by each Financial
Intermediary and by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may
be, as provided by paragraph 3(d) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement and Section 3.09 of this Agreement, respectively.
      Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01
of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through BCP, and the Bank, shall,
on the earlier of the dates on which Subloans and SC-Subloans in an
aggregate amount equivalent to $25,000,000 have been committed (pursuant to
paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement and
paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 5 to the SC-Loan
Agreement) or the date 18 months after the Effective Date, undertake a
review of the: (i) progress achieved by the Borrower or BCP, as the case may
be, in carrying out the Project, the Program and the Work Program; (ii)
actions to be taken or cause to be taken by the Borrower pursuant to
paragraph (c) below; and (iii) the procedures used by the Borrower, through
EIAU or SENASA, as the case may be, to carry out the review referred to in
Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
      (b)   If, as a result of the exchange of views referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the progress achieved by the
Borrower or BCP, as the case may be, in carrying out the Project, the
Program or the Work Program is not satisfactory, or that the actions
referred to in paragraph (c) below have not been taken, or, have been
partially taken, or, if so taken, such actions have not been performed in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, or the procedures used by the
Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may be, to carry out the
review referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement is not satisfactory,
the Bank may cease the approval of applications or the authorization of
withdrawals under paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement and paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 5 to
the SC-Loan Agreement. Such cessation may continue unless the Bank shall be
satisfied based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the events
described herein have been resolved in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
      (c)   The actions referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section
are: (i) that the Executive branch of the Borrower has furnished to the
Borrower's Congress bills of law, satisfactory to the Bank, on banking,
insurance and banking deposit insurance; (ii) that the Borrower has
maintained its policy of not providing subsidized credit to public or
private borrowers within its territory; and (iii) the actions set forth in
Annex 1 to the Implementation Letter.
Page  7
      Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower, through EIAU, shall review any
Investment Project which, as a result of the initial review carried out by
each Financial Intermediary (as referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of Section
I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement), has a potential damaging environmental
impact, for purposes of recommending the environmental actions to be carried
out by each Investment Enterprise with respect to the Investment Project in
question, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Credit
Regulation Manual.
      (b)   In the event that an Investment Project has a potential damaging
environmental impact on the air and/or water quality (as a result of the
initial review, to be carried out by each Financial Intermediary, referred
to in (a) above), the Borrower shall cause SENASA to review such Investment
Project for purposes of recommending the environmental actions to be
followed by each Investment Enterprise, as referred to in (a) above.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower, through BCP, undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the sum of Intermediary Loans to be made to each
Financial Intermediary shall not exceed thirty percent of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to the Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause BCP to carry out the Work
Program in accordance with the terms set forth in such program.
      Section 3.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.08 of
this Agreement, in the event that the Borrower's twelve month accumulated
inflation rate is 30% or above, the Borrower and the Bank shall, not later
than 30 days after the occurrence of such event, discuss the implications
of providing medium and long-term financing under the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. The Borrower, through BCP, shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower, through BCP, shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01
                  of this Agreement, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
                  sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case
                  not later than four months after the end of each such
                  year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
                  said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower, through BCP, shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, and cause each Financial Intermediary to retain,
                  until at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
Page  8
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable, and cause each Financial Intermediary to enable,
                  the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Banking Regulations or any provisions thereof, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such
a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Program
shall be materially and adversely affected;
      (b)   the interest rates charged on any Intermediary Loan, SC-
Intermediary Loan, Subloan or SC-Subloan made by the Borrower and/or
Financial Intermediaries after the date of this Agreement and the SC-Loan
Agreement, respectively, shall, in the opinion of the Bank, not have been
market-determined;
      (c)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BCP;
      (d)   the interest rates payable on deposits (in Dollars or Guaranies)
in the Borrower's territory by any financial institution (private or public)
shall, in the opinion of the Bank, have been determined by the Borrower or
any entity or agency owned or controlled by the Borrower;
      (e)   BCP shall have assigned, suspended, abrogated, waived,
terminated or failed to comply with the BCP Agreement or any provision
thereof; and
      (f)   the resolution referred to in Section 6.01 (h) of this
Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner that, in the
opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Program shall be materially and
adversely affected.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the events
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (d) or (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Borrower, through BCP, shall have entered into
Participation Agreements with at least three different Financial
Intermediaries under this Agreement or the SC-Loan Agreement;
      (b)   that the Banking Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, have
been issued by BCP;
      (c)   that the UTP has: (i) been assigned a budget; and (ii) employed
staff, satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  9
      (d)   that the Credit Regulation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been duly approved by the Borrower and BCP;
      (e)   that the Operating Policy Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank,
have been duly approved by the Borrower and BCP;
      (f)   that the reorganization of BCP's supervisory functions has been
initiated under terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
      (g)   that the BCP Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly
executed and delivered by the respective parties thereto;
      (h)   that BCP has issued a resolution, satisfactory to the Bank,
which grants broader technical functions to SB, as the terms of such broader
technical functions are described in the Implementation Letter;
      (i)   that BCP has appointed the head of SB with the qualifications
set forth in the Implementation Letter;
      (j)   that the Staff Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
approved by BCP; and
      (k)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SC-
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date October 18, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Chile 128
            Asuncion, Paraguay
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA    44329
                  Asuncion, Paraguay
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
Page  10
                  REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                  By /s/ Crispiniano Sandoval
                  Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                  Regional Vice President
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
such Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in such Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                          (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
    Subloans                      25,000,000        100% of the
                                                    amounts disbursed
                                                    by Financial
                                                    Intermediaries
                                                    under Subloans
                                                    according to the
                                                    provisions set
                                                    forth in para-
                                                    graph 3 (a) of
                                                    Section II of
                                                    Schedule 7 to
                                                    this Agreement
        TOTAL                     25,000,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (b) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a)
goods and works to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (b) the
employment of consulting firms and individual consultants to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 and $50,000, respectively, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
Page  11
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the private sector
in order that such sector can assist the Borrower in fostering economic
growth in its territory; (b) strengthen the ongoing reform of the financial
sector in order to increase the efficiency on resource mobilization and
allocation and financial intermediation; and (c) provide medium and long-
term credit to Investment Enterprises in order to overcome the current
investment constraints in the Borrower's territory.
    The Project consists of the financing of Investment Projects and SC-
Investment Projects, subject to such modifications thereof as the Bank and
the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 1999                         595,000
July 15, 1999                            615,000
January 15, 2000                         640,000
July 15, 2000                            660,000
January 15, 2001                         685,000
July 15, 2001                            710,000
January 15, 2002                         735,000
July 15, 2002                            760,000
January 15, 2003                         790,000
July 15, 2003                            820,000
January 15, 2004                         850,000
July 15, 2004                            880,000
January 15, 2005                         910,000
July 15, 2005                            945,000
January 15, 2006                         980,000
July 15, 2006                          1,015,000
January 15, 2007                       1,050,000
July 15, 2007                          1,090,000
January 15, 2008                       1,130,000
July 15, 2008                          1,170,000
January 15, 2009                       1,215,000
July 15, 2009                          1,255,000
January 15, 2010                       1,305,000
July 15, 2010                          1,350,000
January 15, 2011                       1,400,000
July 15, 2011                          1,445,000
___________________________________
*   The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalent determined as of
    the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
Page  12
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or
more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Paraguay may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $3,000,000
per contract or per bid package may be procured: (a) under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two
suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; or (b) in the cases
set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines, pursuant to direct
contracting.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the
Page  13
provisions of Part A.1 of this Section; (ii) the first contract procured
pursuant to the provisions of Part C of this Section to be financed by each
Financial Intermediary with the proceeds of its Intermediary Loan; and (iii)
each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C of this Section
to be financed by each Financial Intermediary with the proceeds of its
Intermediary Loan for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $3,000,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower or Investment Enterprises in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, and an Investment Enterprise may if
allowed pursuant to a Subloan Agreement, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms ofreference for 
such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and works
referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be
required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
2.  The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
Page  14
3.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
4.  Contract prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if such prices
have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
5.  There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in
order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
6.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding
documents with Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
7.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel, except
for unskilled personnel.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and
rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants'
services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for partici- pating in the
selection process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with
a local consultant.
2.  Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short
list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, payments
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of Free-limit Subloans
may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures,
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
Page  15
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amount,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
Page  16
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
    (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (2)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
                "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank Articles
          of Agreement.".
    (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the
Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted
and the following is substituted therefor:
                "or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 5 (c) of Section
          I of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
          of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications or
          requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
          paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests,
          the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of
          the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
          withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
          respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of
          such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
          cancelled.".
                                SCHEDULE 7
                  Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                    of Intermediary Loans and Subloans
Section I.      Intermediary Loans
1.  To qualify as a Financial Intermediary and thus be eligible to enter
into a Participation Agreement and receive an Intermediary Loan, an entity
must satisfy the eligibility criteria and be selected according to the
procedures specified in the Credit Regulation Manual, which criteria must,
inter alia, require that the entity:
    (a)   meet the current minimum capital requirements (minimum capital
level and capital adequacy ratio) in the Borrower's territory, or if the
entity is not able to meet such requirements, that such entity has agreed
with the Borrower, through BCP, on a capitalization action plan satisfactory
to the Bank;
    (b)   have no unresolved disputes with BCP's banking supervision
department in connection with issues related to the activity of financial
intermediation activities;
    (c)   be in compliance with all the regulations, general provisions and
specific instructions issued by BCP in connection with financial
intermediation in Paraguay;
    (d)   have adequate staff and procedures to carry out efficient Subloan
promotion and Investment Project appraisal and supervision (including
efficient evaluation and supervision of the procurement procedures of an
Investment Enterprise); and
    (e)   be current in meeting its obligations to have had its financial
statements audited by external auditors approved by BCP;
2.  Each Intermediary Loan shall be made in accordance with principles and
procedures and under terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Regulation
Manual, which procedures, terms and conditions must, inter alia, include:
Page  17
(a) (i) Intermediary Loans shall be made in Guaranies; (ii) the amortization
schedule of Intermediary Loans shall be expressed in Guaranies and the
principal of Intermediary Loans shall be repayable in Guaranies; and (iii)
the interest on Intermediary Loans shall be payable in Guaranies, as set
forth in paragraph (b) herein;
    (b)   the interest rate of Intermediary Loans: (i) in Guaranies shall
be a variable interest rate equal to the average interest rate for
certificates of deposit in Guaranies (of a maturity to be determined by the
Borrower, through BCP, in a manner and under terms satisfactory to the Bank)
paid by the financial institutions in the Borrower's territory during a
period prior to the approval date of the Intermediary Loan in question (to
be determined by the Borrower, through BCP, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank), as adjusted pursuant to the Borrower's reserve requirement, plus a
specified spread to be calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (c)   the principal amount of each Intermediary Loan shall be repaid,
irrespective of whether the corresponding Subloan or Subloans are repaid,
on the same terms and conditions applicable to the Subloans made from the
proceeds of such Intermediary Loan, provided, however, that if a Subloan or
any part thereof shall be repaid to the Financial Intermediary in advance
of maturity, or, if a Subloan or any part thereof shall be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Financial
Intermediary, the Financial Intermediary shall promptly repay to the
Borrower the amount of the Intermediary Loan corresponding to such Subloan
or any part thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
3.  Participation Agreements shall, inter alia, contain:
    (a)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to maintain
compliance with the requirements referred to in paragraph 1 (a) through (c)
of this Section;
    (b)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to maintain the
staffing referred to in paragraph 1 (d) of this Section;
    (c)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to: (i) maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition, including
records and separate accounts regarding its activities under the Project;
(ii) have such records and accounts, together with its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements),
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Borrower, through BCP, and the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower, through
BCP, not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to
the Borrower, through BCP, such information and documentation as required
to allow the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Article IV of
this Agreement;
    (d)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to carry out an
initial environmental review based on the information provided by the
Investment Enterprise with respect to the Investment Project (under the
procedures referred to in the Credit Regulation Manual); and
    (e)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to comply with the
applicable terms of the Credit Regulation Manual.
4.  No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
unless:
    (a)   the Subloan for such Investment Project (other than a Free-limit
Subloan) shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to the
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and the
information required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Section in respect of
such Subloan; and
Page  18
    (b)   the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a Free-
limit Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this
Section in respect of such Free-limit Subloan. For purposes of this
Agreement, a Free-limit Subloan shall be any Subloan in an amount of less
than the equivalent of $1,000,000 made by a Financial Intermediary after the
first three Subloans made by a Financial Intermediary.
5.  (a)   When presenting a Subloan (other than a Free-limit Subloan) to the
Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and the appraisal of the Investment Project in
question together with the environmental information requested by the
Financial Intermediary, as referred to in the Credit Regulation Manual or,
if applicable, evidence of the environmental recommendations made by the
Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may be, to the Investment
Enterprise as referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
    (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i)
a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the environmental
information requested by the Financial Intermediary as referred to in the
Credit Regulation Manual, or if applicable, evidence of the environmental
recommendations made by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case
may be, to the Investment Enterprise, as referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions
of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan.
    (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank
on or before June 30, 1998.
Section II. Subloans
1.  To qualify for a Subloan: (i) an Investment Enterprise and Investment
Project must be appraised by a Financial Intermediary in accordance with the
applicable terms of the Credit Regulation Manual; and (ii) an Investment
Project must be environmentally viable as determined by the review to be
carried out by each Financial Intermediary (as provided in paragraph 3 (d)
of Section I of this Schedule) or, if applicable, by the Borrower, through
EIAU or SENASA, as the case may be, as referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement, and must meet the criteria specified in such Credit Regulation
Manual, which criteria must, inter alia, include that each Investment
Project must be expected to yield a financial rate of return in real terms,
calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, of not less than twelve
percent.
2.  (a)   Subloans shall be made in Guaranies; and
    (b)   the amortization schedule of Subloans shall be expressed in
Guaranies and the principal of Subloans shall be repayable in Guaranies.
3.  (a)   The amount of each Subloan to be financed with the proceeds of the
Loan shall not exceed: (i) 70% of the estimated cost of the Investment
Project; or (ii) an amount equivalent to $5,000,000, whichever is the
lowest.
    (b)   The proceeds of a Subloan shall not be used to finance, inter
alia, the following expenditures:
          (i)   overhead and administrative costs;
         (ii)   severance payments;
        (iii)   transfer of assets, including, inter alia, the acquisitions
Page  19
                of shares, equity investments and other type of securities;
         (iv)   recurrent expenses;
          (v)   working capital expenses (except for associated working
                capital expenses as referred to in Section 1.02 (j) of this
                Agreement);
         (vi)   restructuring of debt;
        (vii)   payment of dividends or recovery of invested capital; and
         (viii) purchase of land and housing.
    (c)   The amount of Subloans to an Investment Enterprise shall not
exceed in the aggregate the limits set forth in paragraph (a) herein.
4.  The interest rate of Subloans shall be a rate equal to the interest rate
charged by the Borrower, through BCP, in making Intermediary Loans, plus a
specified spread agreed pursuant to direct negotiations between the
Financial Intermediary and the Investment Enterprise in question.
5.  Subloans to finance goods or works shall have a maturity of three to ten
years, including a maximum grace period of three years. Subloans for other
purposes shall have a maturity of one to three years, including a maximum
grace period of six months.
6.  Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall
obtain, by a written Subloan Agreement with the Investment Enterprise,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right to:
    (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project;
    (f)   require the Investment Enterprise to finance at least twenty
percent of the Investment Project's cost with funds of its own that have not
been borrowed (such funds contributed by the Investment Enterprise cannot
be used to cover recurrent labor costs and working capital expenses, except
for associated working capital expenses as referred to in Section 1.02 (k)
of this Agreement, nor can the Investment Enterprise's contribution
requirement be met through investments made in the past);
    (g)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out the environmental
actions recommended by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may
Page  20
be, as provided by Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
    (h)   require the Investment Enterprise to comply with its obligations
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
    (i)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise
to perform its obligations under its Subloan Agreement.
