Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3775 PA
                             SC-Loan Agreement
                   (Private Sector Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 20, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3775 PA
                             SC-LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
(as such term is defined herein), has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project, and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank is also providing a multiple currency
loan in the principal amount equivalent to twenty-five million Dollars (the
Loan Agreement);
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter dated March 11, 1994 (the Policy
Letter) from the Borrower describing a program (the Program) of actions,
policies and objectives designed, inter alia, to reform the Borrower's
financial sector, restructure the functions and responsibilities of the
Borrower's Central Bank - Banco Central del Paraguay (BCP), maintain the
current regime of market determined interest rates and foster private sector
development in Paraguay, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the SC-Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this SC-Loan Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated February
9, 1993, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this SC-Loan
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this SC-
Loan Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in paragraphs (a) through (e)
(provided, however, that the expression "Schedule 7 to this Agreement"
referred to in such subparagraph (e) shall read as "Schedule 5 to the SC-
Loan Agreement), (h) through (j), (l) through (s), (u), (v), (x) and (y) of
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Free-Limit SC-Subloan" means a SC-Subloan of the type referred
to in paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 5 to this SC-Loan Agreement;
and
      (b)   "SC-Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this SC-Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The SC-Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the SC-Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the SC-Loan may be withdrawn from the
SC-Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise
under a SC-Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the SC-Investment Project in respect of which withdrawal from
the SC-Loan Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the SC-Special Account) in:
(i) BCP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the SC-Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the SC-Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the SC-Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the Average Margin as provided in
paragraph (b) (iv) below.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to but not including
Page  3
                  the first Interest Payment Date and thereafter the period
                  from and including any Interest Payment Date to but not
                  including the next Interest Payment Date.
           (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank
                  offered rate for Dollars, expressed as a percentage per
                  annum, reasonably determined by the Bank in accordance
                  with Schedule 6 to this Agreement for the January 15 or
                  July 15 on which an Interest Period commences (or, for
                  the initial Interest Period, the January 15 or July 15
                  preceding the date of this Agreement or on which such
                  Interest Period commences).
           (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the
                  weighted average margin, for the Semester preceding the
                  relevant January 15 or July 15, between: (A) the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank or portions
                  thereof allocated to the funding of single currency loans
                  in all currencies; and (B) the specific London and, for
                  French francs, Paris interbank offered rates or other
                  such reference rates attributable to such borrowings in
                  each such currency, all as reasonably determined by the
                  Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. For any
                  Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B), the Average
                  Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) above. For any
                  Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the Average
                  Margin shall be subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
                  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Average Margin for the
                  Interest Period ending January 14, 1994 shall be minus
                  0.23%.
            (v)   "Semester" means the first six months or second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency LIBOR and
the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such determination.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15
and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the SC-
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.08,
3.09, 3.11, 4.01, and 4.02 of, and Schedules 2 and 4 to, the Loan Agreement
constitute an integral part of this SC-Loan Agreement, with the following
modifications, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (a)   the term "Schedule 7 to this Agreement" referred to in Sections
3.02 (a), 3.03 and 3.09 of the Loan Agreement shall be read as "Schedule 5
to the SC-Loan Agreement";
      (b)   the term "Loan" referred to in Sections 3.02 (a), 3.04  and 3.05
of the Loan Agreement shall be read as "SC-Loan";
      (c)   the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Loan Agreement";
      (d)   the term "Subloan" referred to in Section 3.03 of the Loan
Agreement shall be read as "SC-Subloan";
      (e)   the term "Investment Project" referred to in Sections 3.06 and
3.09 of the Loan Agreement shall be read as "SC-Investment Project";
      (f)   the term "Subloan Agreement" referred to in Section 3.06 of, and
Page  4
Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement shall be read as "SC-Subloan Agreement";
      (g)   the term "Intermediary Loan" referred to in Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement shall be read as "SC-Intermediary Loan";
      (h)   the term "Special Account" referred to in Section 4.02 (a) (i)
of, and Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement shall be read as "SC-Special
Account";
      (i)   the term "Loan Account" referred to in Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement shall be read as "SC-Loan Account"; and
      (j)   the term "Schedule 5 to this Agreement" as referred to in
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement shall be read as "Schedule 3 to the SC-Loan
Agreement".
      Section 3.02. The Borrower, through BCP, undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the sum of SC-Intermediary Loans to be made to
each Financial Intermediary shall not exceed thirty percent of the proceeds
of the SC-Loan allocated to the Category set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this SC-Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events
referred to in paragraphs (a) through (f) of Section 5.01 of the Loan
Agreement shall occur.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event referred
to in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this SC-Loan Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition
to the effectiveness of the SC-Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (as referred to in Section 6.01
of such Agreement) shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to
this SC-Loan Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date October 18, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. If the Loan Agreement terminated prior to the
termination of this SC-Loan Agreement, the provisions of the Loan Agreement
referred to in this SC-Loan Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect between the Borrower and the Bank.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower ; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  5
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Chile 128
            Asuncion, Paraguay
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTERIO DE             44329
                    HACIENDA
                  Asuncion, Paraguay
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                  By /s/ Crispiniano Sandoval
                  Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                  Regional Vice President
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the SC-Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the SC-Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the SC-Loan
to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in such Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
    SC-Subloans                   25,000,000        100% of the
                                                    amounts disbursed
                                                    by Financial
                                                    Intermediaries
                                                    under SC-Subloans
                                                    according to the
                                                    provisions set
                                                    forth in para-
                                                    graph 3 (a) of
                                                    Section II of
                                                    Schedule 5 to
Page  6
                                                    this Agreement
        TOTAL                     25,000,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) a SC-Subloan unless the SC-Subloan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this SC-Loan Agreement; and (b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the SC-Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:
(a) goods and works to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (b)
the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 and $50,000, respectively, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 1999                                         760,000
July 15, 1999                                            775,000
January 15, 2000                                         790,000
July 15, 2000                                            800,000
January 15, 2001                                         815,000
July 15, 2001                                            830,000
January 15, 2002                                         845,000
July 15, 2002                                            860,000
January 15, 2003                                         880,000
July 15, 2003                                            895,000
January 15, 2004                                         910,000
July 15, 2004                                            925,000
January 15, 2005                                         945,000
July 15, 2005                                            960,000
January 15, 2006                                         980,000
July 15, 2006                                            995,000
January 15, 2007                                       1,015,000
July 15, 2007                                          1,035,000
January 15, 2008                                       1,055,000
July 15, 2008                                          1,070,000
January 15, 2009                                       1,090,000
July 15, 2009                                          1,110,000
January 15, 2010                                       1,130,000
July 15, 2010                                          1,155,000
January 15, 2011                                       1,175,000
July 15, 2011                                          1,200,000
___________________________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
    except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                            SC-Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for SC-Investment
Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the SC-Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions
Page  7
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the
provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of Free-limit
SC-Subloans may be made out of the SC-Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the SC-Loan Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if
the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the SC-Loan Account and deposited in the SC-
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the SC-Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the SC-
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the SC-Special Account
shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the SC-Loan Account and deposit in the SC-Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the SC-Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                SC-Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the SC-Loan
                Account and deposit into the SC-Special Account such amount
                as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the SC-Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the SC-Loan Account
under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent
amount, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the SC-Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the SC-Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the SC-Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this SC-Loan Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the SC-Loan allocated to the
eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the SC-Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the SC-Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the SC-
Page  8
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the SC-Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the SC-Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the SC-
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the SC-Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the SC-Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the SC-Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For purposes of this SC-Loan Agreement the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)       The terms "Loan Agreement", "Loan" and "Loan Account" under
paragraphs 3, 4 and 10 of Section 2.01 are replaced with the terms "SC-Loan
Agreement", "SC-Loan", and "SC-Loan Account", respectively.
(2)       The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the
Loan shall be canceled", set forth at the end of Section 6.03, are deleted
and the following is substituted therefor:
          "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 5 (c) of Section I of
    Schedule 5 to the SC-Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any
    portion of the SC-Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests
    permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have
    denied any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
    Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
    applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the SC-Loan
    Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
    the SC-Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of
    the SC-Loan shall be cancelled.".
                                SCHEDULE 5
                  Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                 of SC-Intermediary Loans and SC-Subloans
Section I.      SC-Intermediary Loans
1.  To qualify as a Financial Intermediary and thus be eligible to enter
into a Participation Agreement and receive a SC-Intermediary Loan, an entity
must satisfy the eligibility criteria and be selected according to the
procedures specified in the Credit Regulation Manual, which criteria must,
inter alia, require that the entity:
    (a)   meet the current minimum capital requirements (minimum capital
level and capital adequacy ratio) in the Borrower's territory, or if such
entity is not able to meet such requirements, that such entity has agreed
Page  9
with the Borrower, through BCP, on a capitalization action plan satisfactory
to the Bank;
    (b)   have no unresolved disputes with BCP's banking supervision
department in connection with issues related to the activity of financial
intermediation;
    (c)   be in compliance with all the regulations, general provisions and
specific instructions issued by BCP in connection with financial
intermediation in Paraguay;
    (d)   be current in meeting its obligations to have had its financial
statements audited by external auditors approved by BCP;
    (e)   have adequate staff and procedures to carry out efficient SC-
Subloan promotion and SC-Investment Project appraisal and supervision
(including efficient evaluation and supervision of the procurement
procedures by an Investment Enterprise and the environmental aspects of an
SC-Investment Project);
    (f)   not be managed by the Borrower;
    (g)   services its debt from its own revenues;
    (h)   manages the risks associated with the foreign currency composition
of its assets and liabilities; and
    (i)   has clients or prospective clients which earn revenues in Dollars.
2.  Each SC-Intermediary Loan shall be made in accordance with principles
and procedures and under terms and conditions set forth in the Credit
Regulation Manual, which procedures, terms and conditions must, inter alia,
include that:
    (a)   (i) SC-Intermediary Loans shall be made and disbursed in Dollars;
and (ii) the amortization schedule of SC-Intermediary Loans shall be
expressed in Dollars and principal of and interest on SC-Intermediary Loans
shall be repayable and payable, respectively, in Dollars;
    (b)   the interest rate on SC-Intermediary Loans shall be a rate equal
to the LIBOR Rate in effect the business day immediately prior to the date
such interest rate is agreed upon, plus a specified spread to be calculated
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to reflect: (i) Paraguay's country risk
(to be determined by the difference between the annual average interest rate
paid by financial institutions in the Borrower's territory on time deposits
in Dollars and the LIBOR Rate); and (ii) the maturity period of the SC-
Intermediary Loan. Such rate shall be adjusted every six months during the
maturity of the SC-Intermediary Loan; and
    (c)   the principal amount of each SC-Intermediary Loan shall be repaid,
irrespective of whether the corresopnding SC-Subloan or SC-Subloans are
repaid, on the same terms and conditions applicable to the SC-Subloans made
from the proceeds of such SC-Intermediary Loan, provided, however, that if
a SC-Subloan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Financial
Intermediary in advance of maturity, or, if a SC-Subloan or any part thereof
shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by
the Financial Intermediary, the Financial Intermediary shall promptly repay
to the Borrower the amount of the SC-Intermediary Loan corresponding to such
SC-Subloan or any part thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for
value.
3.  Participation Agreements shall, inter alia, contain:
    (a)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to maintain
compliance with the requirements referred to in paragraph 1 (a) through (c),
and (f) through (i);
    (b)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to maintain the
staffing referred to in paragraph 1 (e) of this Section;
    (c)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to: (i) maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition, including
Page  10
records and separate accounts regarding its activities under the Project;
(ii) have such records and accounts, together with its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements),
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Borrower, through BCP, and the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower, through
BCP, not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to
the Borrower, through BCP, such information and documentation as required
to allow the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and
4.02 of the Loan Agreement;
    (d)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to carry out an
initial environmental review based on the information provided by the
Investment Enterprise with respect to the SC-Investment Project (under the
procedures referred to in the Credit Regulation Manual); and
    (e)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to comply with the
applicable terms of the Credit Regulation Manual.
4.  No expenditures for goods, works or services required for SC-Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the SC-Loan
unless:
    (a)   the SC-Subloan for such SC-Investment Project (other than a Free-
limit SC-Subloan) shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and the
information required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Section in respect of
such SC-Subloan; and
    (b)   the SC-Subloan for such SC-Investment Project shall have been a
Free-limit SC-Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
SC-Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
one hundred an eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this
Section in respect of such Free-limit SC-Subloan. For purposes of this SC-
Loan Agreement, a Free-limit SC-Subloan shall be any SC-Subloan in an amount
of less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 made by a Financial Intermediary
after the first three SC-Subloans made by a Financial Intermediary.
5.  (a)   When presenting a SC-Subloan (other than a Free-limit SC-Subloan)
to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and the appraisal of the SC-
Investment Project in question together with the environmental information
requested by the Financial Intermediary, as referred to in the Credit
Regulation Manual or, if applicable, evidence of the environmental
recommendations made by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case
may be, to the Investment Enterprise as referred to in Section 3.09 of the
Loan Agreement, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the SC-Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the SC-Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the
SC-Subloan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonable
request.
    (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the SC-Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit SC-Subloan shall
contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the
environmental information requested by the Financial Intermediary as
referred to in the Credit Regulation Manual, or if applicable, evidence of
the environmental recommendations made by the Borrower, through EIAU or
SENASA, as the case may be, to the Investment Enterprise, as referred to in
Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the SC-Loan; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the SC-Subloan, including the schedule of
amortization of the SC-Subloan.
    (c)   Applications and request made pursuant to the provisions of
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank
Page  11
on or before June 30, 1998.
Section II.  SC-Subloans
1.  To qualify for a SC-Subloan: (i) an Investment Enterprise and SC-
Investment Project must be appraised by a Financial Intermediary in
accordance with the applicable terms of the Credit Regulation Manual; and
(ii) SC-Investment Project must be environmentally viable as determined by
the review to be carried out be each Financial Intermediary, or, if
applicable, by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may be, as
provided in paragraph 3 (d) of Section I of this Schedule and Section 3.09
of the Loan Agreement, respectively, and must meet the criteria specified
in such Credit Regulation Manual, which criteria must, inter alia, include
that:
    (a)   each SC-Investment Project must be expected to yield a financial
rate of return in real terms, calculated in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, of not less than twelve percent; and
    (b)   the Investment Enterprise must have: (i) revenues in Dollars or
in other convertible currencies; or (ii) prospective revenues in Dollars or
in other convertible currencies; or (iii) revenues whose pricing is linked
to Dollar prices.
2.  (a)   SC-Subloans shall be made and disbursed in Dollars; and
    (b)   the amortization schedule of SC-Subloans shall be expressed in
Dollars and the principal of and interest on SC-Subloans shall be repayable
and payable, respectively, in Dollars.
3.  (a)   The amount of each SC-Subloan to be financed with the proceeds of
the Loan shall not exceed: (i) 70% of the estimated cost of the SC-
Investment Project; or (ii) an amount equivalent to $5,000,000, whichever
is the lowest.
    (b)   The proceeds of a SC-Subloan shall not be used to finance, inter
alia, the following expenditures:
          (i)   overhead and administrative costs;
         (ii)   severance payments;
        (iii)   transfer of assets, including, inter alia, the acquisition
                of shares, equity investments and other type of securities;
         (iv)   recurrent expenses;
          (v)   working capital expenses (except for associated working
                capital expenses as referred to in Section 1.02 (p) of the
                Loan Agreement);
         (vi)    restructuring of debt;
        (vii)   payment of dividends or recovery of invested capital; and
       (viii)   purchase of land and housing.
    (c)   The amount of SC-Subloans to an Investment Enterprise shall not
exceed in the aggregate the limits set forth in paragraph (a) herein.
4.  The interest rate of SC-Subloans shall be a rate equal to the interest
rate referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Section I of this Schedule, plus a
specified spread to be agreed between the Financial Intermediary and the
Investment Enterprise in question. Such rate shall be adjusted every six
months during the maturity of the SC-Subloan so as to equal the interest
rate referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Section I of this Schedule in effect
the day of each such adjustment, plus the above mentioned spread.
5.  SC-Loans to finance goods or works shall have a maturity of three to ten
years, including a maximum grace period of three years. SC-Subloans for
other purposes shall have a maturity of one to three years, including a
maximum grace period of six months.
Page  12
6.  SC-Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary
shall obtain, by a written SC-Subloan Agreement with the Investment
Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the interest of the Bank and the
Borrower, including the right to:
    (a)   require the Investment Enterprises to carry out and operate the
SC-Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the SC-Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the SC-
Investment Project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites, works, plants and construction
included in the SC-Investment Project, the operations thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the SC-Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operational and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the SC-Investment Project;
    (f)   require the Investment Enterprise to finance at least twenty
percent of the SC-Investment Project's cost with funds of its own that have
not been borrowed (such funds contributed by the Investment Enterprise
cannot be used to cover recurrent labor costs and working capital expenses,
except for associated working capital expenses as referred to in Section
1.02 (q) of the Loan Agreement, nor can the Investment Enterprise's
contribution requirement be met through investments made in the past);
    (g)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out the environmental
actions recommended by the Borrower, through EIAU or SENASA, as the case may
be, as provided in Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement;
    (h)   require the Investment Enterprise to comply with its obligations
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement; and
    (i)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the SC-Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its SC-Subloan Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                    Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.  Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the offered rate
for deposits in Dollars for a period of six months which appears on the
display designated as page "3750" on the Telerate monitor (or such other
page or service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying London
interbank offered rates of major banks for Dollars deposits), as of 11:00
a.m. (London time) on the second day on which banks and foreign exchange
markets are open for business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or
July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.  If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such service
as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four major
banks to provide the Bank with the rate at which deposits in Dollars are
offered by such banks on the Interest Determination Date to leading banks
Page  13
in the London interbank market for a period of six months ending on the last
day of such Interest Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period
shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.  If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations
under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be arithmetic mean
(rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal place) determined by the
Bank of the rates quoted by at least two major banks in New York City
selected by the Bank on the Interest Determination Date for loans in Dollars
to leading European banks for a period of six months ending on the last day
of such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are
quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency in
effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
