                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26083

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-26320; TF-27543)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.14 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS

                                                 FOR A

                          SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2003




Private Sector Unit
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                              Currency Unit = CF
                                      CF 1 = US$ .0023
                                     US$ 1 = CF 430



                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD            French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
BCD            Banque de Développement des Comores
BCI            Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
CASP           Center for Support of the Private Sector (Centre d'appui au Secteur Prive)
CEE            Electricity and Water Company (Commorienne de l'Eau et l'Electricité)
COMOTEL        Hotel Company
EEDF           Electricity and Water Company (Electricité et Eau des Comores)
EDF            Enterprise Development Fund
APSP           Association for the Promotion of the Private Sector (Association Pour le
               Développement du Secteur Prive)
CSP            Centre Pour la Promotion du Secteur Prive
OHADA          Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (Organisation
               pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique)
MERCAP         Macroeconomic Reform and Capacity-Building Project
SCH            Petroleum Importing Company (Société Commorienne des Hydrocarbures)
SNTP           Post and Telecommunications Company (Société Nationale des Postes et
               Télécommunications)
SOCOPOTRAM     Port Company (Société Comorienne des Ports et Transports Maritimes)




                            Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                          Country Director:     Hafez Ghanem
                           Sector Manager:      Demba Ba
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao

                                          COMOROS
                                SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex Synthèse du Rapport d'Achèvement                                           30

Project ID: P000606                                                      Project Name: SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV
Team Leader: Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao                                       TL Unit: PPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-26320; TF-27543
   Country/Department: COMOROS                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (50%); Law and justice (17%);
                            Micro- and SME finance (17%); Central government administration
                            (16%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (S);
                            Law reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/05/1993                                        Effective: 01/27/1995              05/24/1995
   Appraisal:    00/00/0000                                            MTR: 11/30/1996                11/01/1997
    Approval:    06/21/1994                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF COMOROS/MIN OF FIN & OF JUST
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Michael N. Sarris
Team Leader at ICR:             Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao
ICR Primary Author:             Herminia Martinez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Small Enterprise Development Project (Credit 2632-COM) for a credit amount of SDR 3.7 million
(US$5.1 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on June 21, 1994, and became effective on May
24, 1995. The original closing date was June 20, 2001; it was extended twice for a total of 18 months to
December 31, 2002.

The principal objectives of the project as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 12712 KM) were
to help the Government of Comoros implement its development strategy which called for accelerated
private sector-led export-oriented growth. The project objective was to support Government's reform
program by providing the nascent private sector with the means and incentives to engage in productive
investments. Specifically, the project aimed at improving access to investment financing and the
competencies of small entrepreneurs; enhancing the business environment through improvements in
business laws and judicial procedures, and strengthening business incentives.

The Islamic Republic of the Comoros (renamed Union of the Comoros in 2001) comprises the three
Comoros Islands that declared independence from France in 1975. The credit was approved as the
Government       was undergoing a process of political and economic liberalization.       It adopted a new
constitution in 1992, and held elections in 1993 which produced a working majority in the legislature. In
1991, the Government adopted a reform program to redress problems which had led to poor economic
performance after independence, and which aimed at establishing the conditions for export-led growth and
significant increases in per-capita incomes. The program was supported by a structural adjustment credit
(Macroeconomic Reform and Capacity Building Project - MERCAP) and an IMF SAP, both approved in
1991, the outcome of which was satisfactory. The project supported the continuation of the reforms
initiated in 1991 and was thus in line with the Government's development priorities and Bank strategy. A
planned follow-up operation focusing on divestiture of infrastructure public enterprises and which was
expected to provide additional quick-disbursing financing did not materialize, because of the political
difficulties outlined in section 3.2 below.
The project had ambitious but clear objectives aimed at addressing key issues in the government's agenda.
It was complex in that it included a line of credit; reforms of the judiciary, reforms in the business
environment and technical assistance for private enterprises. This is unavoidable in PSD projects in
small countries where one operation needs to address a variety of issues. Project activities with respect to
privatization and business incentives extended programs which were underway, reducing complexity. The
project had clear implementation arrangements; existing institutions were charged with implementation of
activities relating to their mandate, and with some support provided under the project, had the competencies
to carry out the project. The Ministry of Finance was responsible for overall project coordination, and
implementation of the institutional strengthening component; the Ministry of Justice was responsible for
legal and judicial reform; existing banks, which were financially solid, were charged with implementation
of line of credit component, and an existing private association was responsible for support to private
enterprises. The project had risks, which were primarily linked to the country's political environment; but
political developments and the policy agenda being implemented at the time argued for proceeding with the
operation.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised, although         greater emphasis was placed, in the course of
implementation, on reforms on the business environment (legal framework and the judiciary), technical



                                                     - 2 -

assistance to public enterprises, and private provision of infrastructure. The period of implementation was
characterized by political instability. Political problems in 1995-97 culminated in a severe crisis in August
1997 when the island of Anjouan, the poorest, and where 45 percent of the population lives, attempted to
secede from the Republic. An agreement between the Government and the Anjouan leadership was signed
in reached in 2000, and in February 2001, a Framework Agreement for National Reconciliation was signed
which outlined a path to reunification and democratization of the country, including a transition period, a
referendum on a new constitution, a government of national unity and finally elections in early 2002. At the
writing of this ICR in April 2003, the results of the transition process are mixed. A new consitution was
adopted which called for a federal system of government (the country was renamed), and presidents were
elected for the Union and for the three islainds. However, new lines of confrontation between the four
entities in the Comoros emerged, and specific responsiblities of the four governing units remained a point of
contention. Disbursements under Bank credits were suspended between August 1998 and January 2000.
After resumption of Bank activities in 2000, funds remaining under the line of credit were reallocated to
activities, which were priority under the Bank's Transitional Strategy and which were expected to have an
impact on private sector participation in productive sectors. As part of its Transitional Strategy, IDA
approved in 2001 an Emergency Reconstruction Credit, focusing on poverty reduction, decentralization and
national reconciliation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project included four components, described below.

Line of Credit Component (cost at appraisal: US$4.45 million). The component aimed to provide
long-term resources to finance medium and long-term investment of private enterprises. The line of credit
was to be channeled through the development bank (Banque de Développement des Comores ­ BDC) and
the commercial bank, Banque pour l' Industrie et le Commerce ­ BCI) which were the only banks operating
in the Comoros at the time, and which met Bank eligibility criteria for financial intermediaries. The line of
credit was to finance investment and related working capital for productive activities.     It also provided
some financing of housing. The on-lending rate was fixed in relation to the costs of funds and that charged
to beneficiaries was left to the intermediaries to establish within the maximum established by the Bank of
Comoros. The interest rates would be variable and revised periodically to ensure that they remained
positive in real terms. These arrangements are in line with Bank policy and practices for lines of credit.

Legal Reform and Strengthening of the Judiciary Component (cost at appraisal: US$1.1 million). The
component aimed at supporting the strengthening of judicial institutions and the formulation and
implementation of an action program to put in place modern business laws and remove deficiencies in the
judiciary. The component was to be implemented by the Ministry of Justice which appointed a Legal
Reform Coordinator. The component consisted of the following:

(a)      compilation, consolidation and publication of existing commercial and business laws;

(b)      rehabilitation of the process of publication of the Official Journal;

(c)      establishment of a Law Reform Commission to review, and propose amendments to, existing
commercial and business legislation with particular emphasis on the Investment Code, the Commercial
Code, property laws, company law and the Labor Code;

(d)      measures to streamline the litigation process in the lower courts, and enhance the capacity of such
courts to dispose of commercial law cases, including the establishment of a commercial court jurisdiction,


                                                      - 3 -

the appointment of conciliation judges, the introduction of reporting mechanism for magistrates, and a
review of the work environment of magistrates and the adequacy of court procedures; development of a
training program and other measures to improve the process of recruitment and the level of training of
magistrates and other paralegal staff;

(e)      measures to strengthen the effectiveness of the Ministry of Justice, and in particular, its
newly-created Legislative Drafting Division and Legal Information Center responsible for legislative
drafting and legal information services, respectively.

Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Component (cost at appraisal:US$0.5 million). The
component aimed at helping government implement its economic strategy. It was to be implemented by the
Ministry of Finance who appointed a Project Coordinator to oversee implementation of the component and
provide overall project coordination. It included the activities described below.

(a)      Taxation and Incentives.      The sub-component would support studies needed to formulate a
medium-term tax reform and investment incentives enhancement plan, with emphasis on eliminating
distortions and stimulating investments.       Studies on tourism and exports were also included in this
component.

(b)      Public Enterprise reform. Activities included under the sub-component, which aimed to advance
the divestiture agenda, were:

l Putting in place a legal framework of PEs (public enterprises), designating the Ministry of Finance as
     responsible for overseeing privatization, and adopting revised status for key PEs (EEDC, electricity
     and water, and SNPT, posts and telecommunications).

l Identification of public entities without formal status engaged in commercial and industrial activities,
     and the formulation and implementation of an action plan for the disengagement of the public sector
     from these activities.

l Partial     or complete privatization of PEs including SCH (petroleum), Air Comoros and
     SOCOPOTRAM (certain commercial functions); and adoption of private status for them; adoption of
     private status for the Chamber of Commerce and COMOTEL.

l Restructuring of key PE's, including SOCOPOTRAM, EEDC, STPT, and Air Comoros.



Enterprise Development Fund (EDF) Component (cost at appraisal US$1.0 million). The fund aimed to
provide specialized assistance to SSEs and financial institutions supporting SSEs. The program included
(i) expert advise to enterprises and (ii) training for banks on medium-and long term lending, with emphasis
on assisting BDC strengthening by implementing its business plan. Support to enterprises was to be
managed by the Association for the Promotion of the Private Sector (ASPS), established in 1995 (initially
called Center for Assistance to the Private Sector. CASP). To reduce costs of the program, it was expected
that the expert advise would be provided to groups of entrepreneurs; technical expertise was placed in the
Association to provide on-site assistance. Support to the BDC was to be coordinated by the Ministry of
Finance.

The project components described above were directly related to the project objectives. The project team



                                                       - 4 -

drew from previous Bank experience on directed credit and on lending to BDC. To support broader-based
financial intermediation, the two banks in the Comoros were eligible to implement the line of credit (the
completion report for a 1983 project in support of BDC noted that the project had attained most of its
development objectives). The project design did not create institutions to implement the project, and
instead sought to strengthen existing ones. In addition, most technical assistance was to be provided by
short-term specialists, to ensure government ownership and avoid experience elsewhere that long-term
specialists substituted for their local counterparts. The SAR spelled out in detail the implementation
arrangements, and the institutions charged with implementation were capable of carrying out the tasks
assigned to them with some support: the banks were financially solid, ASPS had been established with
support from UNDP and previously provided assistance to entrepreneurs; the Ministry of Finance had
appointed during project preparation a qualified Project Coordinator to coordinate the project and supervise
implementation of the Ministry of Finance component, and the appointment of a qualified Legal Reform
Coordinator was a condition of credit effectiveness.

3.4 Revised Components:

In 2000, when Bank activities in Comoros were reinitiated, the work program of the components was
modified to take into account the priorities and action plans defined as part of the Bank's Transitional
Support Strategy. The Legal Reform component was amended to include technical assistance to put in
conformity Comoros business laws with the Uniform acts of Organization for the Harmonization of
Business Law in Africa (OHADA) which became available in the late nineties, and to disseminate these
business laws to local practitioners (Letter Amending the Development Credit Agreement of September 14,
2000). The Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building component was not amended, but the
restructuring and eventual sale of shares of the Development Bank to a strategic investor was included in
the public enterprise agenda. The line of credit component was closed and funds remaining under the
component (US$300,000) reallocated to priority activities. Funds were reallocated from the line of credit
because the Development Bank, which implemented the component, was facing financial difficulties.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the country assistance
strategy and the government objectives of establishing an enabling environment for business with a view to
increasing investment and employment. The design was adequate to meet project objectives. The scope of
the project was broad, which allowed flexibility in implementation, and implementation arrangements were
clear and worked well in practice. Support to enterprises was channeled through an association which
retained specialists to provide assistance to groups of enterprises, rather than using the more common
approach of      matching grant funds where consulting services are recruited locally or internationally
depending on the requirement of enterprises. This arrangement was appropriate because of the small size of
the country, the distance from centers of technical know-how and the shortage of local consultants with
specialized knowledge on enterprise creation and development which would have made the traditional
approach very expensive. The line of credit component met the requirements of financial intermediary
lending, and the SAR includes a business plan for the Development Bank. The line of credit component did
not focus appropriately on microfinace as other donors, notably the French, were setting up microfinance
institutions at the time

The project predates the establishment of the Quality Assurance Group, and therefore no assessment was
done by the group of the quality at entry. The project also predates the introduction of the logical
framework approach, and a logical framework was not included in the SAR. The SAR did include a
detailed action plan. The plan was updated when the suspension of disbursements was lifted in 2000. The



                                                     - 5 -

objectives spelled out in the SAR and the revised ones are reflected in Annex 1 of this report.

The appraisal correctly recognized the project risks and placed an emphasis on supervision requirements,
which was unusual for appraisals in this period. The appraisal noted that renewed political instability could
delay the Government's policy reform program and slow down the process of revamping the legal and
regulatory framework which would mean that the pace of private sector investment would be slower than
anticipated. The report also correctly pointed to the weaknesses of implementing institutions, and to
mitigate the risk, the project focused on technical assistance to strengthen the institutional base. The
appraisal did not identify a specific exit strategy in the event of the resumption of political unrest. This
was in line with the practice at the time which assumed that in the event of political difficulties which
impeded project implementation, the Bank would take appropriate remedial actions in the context of the
country strategy. This is in fact what happened.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The principal objectives of the project were to help the Government implement its development strategy
which called for accelerated private sector-led export-oriented growth by providing the private sector with
the means and incentives to engage in productive investments. Specifically, the project aimed at improving
access to investment financing and the competencies of small entrepreneurs; enhancing the business
environment through improvements in         business laws    and judicial procedures, and in strengthening
business incentives. The objective of improving the business environment has not been achieved given the
political developments in the Comoros over the past five years, although progress has been made in some
areas, discussed in the paragraph below. Access to investment financing has not improved; in fact, the key
institution providing term financing for investment stopped lending in 1997, and has not yet reinitiated
operations in part because of the difficulties of attracting qualified investors in the financial sector in the
current climate. The project outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

The project contributed particularly to improvents in area of legal and judicial reform, but also in the
provision of business support services, in setting the framework for divestiture and in advancing the tax
reform agenda. Business legislation was compiled, published and distributed to the legal profession; key
business legislation was revised, and the Official Journal is being published regularly. The first Comorian
civil procedures code was prepared and enacted. Legal reforms have established a framework for business
transactions, which was unavailable at the beginning of the project. The judiciary was strengthened with
the recruitment and training of magistrates, improvements in facilities and updating of procedures which is
enabling the principal courts in the country to operate on a regular basis. The project also supported the
establishment of the institutional and procedural arrangements for divestiture of public enterprises. Some
limited progress was also made in divestiture. Reforms in air transport have reduced costs, improved
communications between the islands and reduced Comoros' isolation. Arrangements established for ports
management in 2001 should lead to a reduction in the costs of doing business in the Comoros, although
only the main port in Grande Comoros is already under new management. Reforms in air transport could
lead to a an expansion of tourism which had begun to develop in the early nineties once the political
situation stabilizes. Business taxes were simplified and lowered, which should lead to a reduction in the
tax burden for business, although the effect of the reforms cannot be measured with the information
available.    The project also contributed to the creation and strengthening of some 250 enterprises,
although the future of private sector enterprises hinges on a solution of the political and economic
problems in the country. Investments under the line of credit totaled some CF 1 billion; there is no
information to judge the impact of the credits other than credit collection data, which points to an



                                                     - 6 -

unintended subsidy as credit repayments have been low.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Line of Credit Component

The line of credit was designed to provide medium- and long-term financing to private sector enterprises
through the two banks operating in Comoros, the development bank (BDC) and the commercial bank
(BCI). Because BCI had considerable liquidity and was reluctant to lend for investment purposes, the line
of credit was used by BDC. While the program began well, it suffered from the economic downturn
associated with the political crisis, and from management problems at BDC in late 1996 and 1997. As
discussed below, the recovery performance under the line of credit has been weak. Furthermore, although
the financial situation of BDC has improved somewhat it has not yet reinitiated lending operations. The
component is rated unsatisfactory.

All commitments under the line of credit component were made between 1995 and 1997. Commitments
and disbursements were suspended when the Bank suspended disbursements on its portfolio in August
1998. The line of credit was closed when the suspension of Bank lending was lifted in 2000 because of the
poor financial situation of BDC, which had stopped lending activities. After 2000, the project supported
studies to help define the future of BDC which were financed under the Institutional Strengthening and
Capacity Building Component.

As of 1997, BDC had approved 29 credits under the line of credit for a total of some CF 561 (US$1.3)
million, or about half of the original credit allocation for the program, for investment projects amounting to
about CF 1 billion (US$2.2 million). Some 65 percent of the credits in terms of value were made for
projects in Grande Comore (23 loans), where most of the economic activity in the country is centered; 37
percent (five loans) for projects in Anjouan, and 8 percent (one loan) in Moheli. Although an assessment of
the investments financed under the line of credit has not been done, all but two projects in Anjouan (a
school and a hotel) are still in operation, which is notable given the economic conditions prevailing in the
Comoros. The recovery performance under the line of credit has been weak, although better than for the
BDC portfolio as a whole. Arrears under loans financed by the Bank line of credit represent 38 percent of
outstanding balances, compared to 70 percent for the total BDC outstanding portfolio. The arrears in the
Bank-financed portfolio are partly attributed to the economic climate, but also to BDC's inability to
continue providing assistance to good clients and to the uncertainty surrounding the institution's future.
BDC assumed the commercial risk of the line of credit and a 2001 report on its performance notes that it is
honoring its debt service obligations to the Government.

BDC's problems in the late nineties stem in part from the economic downturn associated with the political
crisis which had a negative effect on lending and collections. This coincided with the appointment at the
end of 1996 of a Director General who engaged in politically-motivated lending, mostly for housing in
Anjouan (BDC's outstanding portfolio increased from CF 765 million in 1996 to CF 1409 million in 1997)
and who relaxed financial discipline, including loan recovery. This resulted in a liquidity crisis in 1997.
The Director General, which had been appointed without the agreement of all shareholders (the European
Investment Bank, the French development agency, AFD, the Government and the Central Bank), was
removed in 1997. At the same time, shareholders suspended lending activities until BDC improved its
liquidity and financial situation. Since 1997, BDC has taken measures to improve its financial situation,
through improved controls and collections, and has met the financial performance indicators set by the
Board in 1997. Because of its importance in the Comorian financial system (there are only two banks and
a network of credit cooperatives), shareholders decided to          find a strategic investor to assist in the


                                                       - 7 -

management of the Bank. Given the political environment in the country, it has not been possible to move
forward with the plan to restructure the bank and open its capital to qualified private investors.

Legal Reform and Strengthening of the Judiciary Component

The legal reform component is rated satisfactory. Actions listed in the SAR as well as those agreed upon
when the component was amended in 2000 were carried out successfully, as discussed below.

Compilation, Consolidation and Publication of Commercial and Business Laws. At appraisal, there was
a void in the legal system as business legislation was not readily available because it had never been
systematically gathered and published. With support from the project, applicable business legislation was
compiled and published in seven volumes. The OHADA Uniform Acts which became available in the late
nineties and which superseded some of the existing legislation were also published. The Uniform Acts
include the Commercial Code, and laws governing joint ventures; guarantees and collateral; debt recovery
and enforcements; bankruptcy, arbitration and company accounting. In addition, with support of the
project, the volumes of business legislation were distributed to the to all judges, and can be readily
purchased.

Publication of the Official Journal. The project financed the publication of ten years of back issues of the
Official Journal. In addition, arrangements for the publication of the journal were formalized and printing
equipment and materials acquired so that the journal can be published locally. The journal is being
published regularly.

Legal Reform Commission. With support under the project, a Legal Reform Commission was established
which prepared the legislative reform agenda, including an annual program for the compilation and revision
of business laws and supervised work on legal reform. The Commission has also prepared an agenda for
future reforms. The first Comorian code of civil procedures was prepared, approved and published, which
will avoid the practice of legal practitioners and the courts of applying French civil procedure rules which
were in fact not valid in the Comoros. In addition, key business legislation was updated, including the
investment code, the privatization legislation (discussed below), the tax code, legislation establishing a
chamber (tribunal) to deal with commercial matters in the three First Instance Tribunals; and legislation
institutionalizing judicial conciliation, which had existed in practice but not in the law.




                                                     - 8 -

Strengthening the Judiciary. At appraisal, the principal tribunals were the Supreme Court a Superior
Court, a Court of Appeals and one First Instance Tribunal in each of the islands, which had the broadest
mandate, and were competent in practically all disputes involving the Government (a higher court structure
was created in 1992, but it was never effectively implemented).          In the capital of Moroni (Grande
Comoros), there was only one usable courtroom which was shared by all courts. The court in the smallest
island, Moheli, was not operational. In addition, there was an acute shortage of magistrates. There were
some 20 magistrates in the country, but less than half worked as judges. As part of its legal reform
program, the Government committed to recruiting four magistrates per year to improve the functioning of
the judiciary, an objective which was impossible to meet because of the shortage of magistrates.

The project supported the training of 19 magistrates in France and Madagascar. These magistrates were
recruited as judges by the Government, resulting in the tripling of the number of judges working in the
courts. In addition, it supported the training of     24 paralegal staff, also assigned to the courts. A
conciliation judge was appointed in the First Instance Tribunal of Moroni after the institutionalization of
the conciliation procedure. The project supported a study on the work conditions of magistrates and
subsequently financed the upgrading of the installations of tribunals in the three islands through the
provision of furniture and basic equipment, while the Government carried out repairs to render the tribunals
operational. Legal procedures were clarified and streamlined with the enactment of the Civil Procedures
Code and with the enactment of the Uniform Acts of OHADA. As a result of activities supported by the
project, the key tribunals in the country are now able to function on a regular basis.          Commercial
chambers have been established in the First Instance Tribunals in the three islands, which is facilitating
the resolution of business cases. In 2002, two cases were resolved by the court, as it has been possible to
resolve most disputes outside the courts. In addition to the training program for the judiciary, three
seminars on business law and OHADA were conducted attended by all judges and other members of the
legal profession.

Ministry of Justice. Under the project, the facilities of the Ministry of Justice were upgraded through the
provision of equipment and furniture. In addition, a Legislative Drafting and Legal Information Unit was
effectively set up in 2000. The unit had been established in 1995, but it had not been staffed because of the
shortage of trained magistrates and the understandable tendency to give priority to the courts in terms of
staffing needs. The unit will permit the internalization of the legal reform process and ensure its
sustainability. In addition, a legal library at the Ministry was established, staff trained, and books,
materials and basic equipment and furniture purchased; the library is now regularly used by members of
the legal profession. With support from the project, the Ministry of Justice also prepared a legal journal
which provided information on the development of law in Comoros.

Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Component

The component included reforms in the incentive system and privatization activities, although emphasis
was placed during implementation on issues relating to divestiture of public enterprises given the urgency
to address some of the problems associated with the enterprises. The project sought to advance the process
of tax reforms and divestiture. The objectives in the project with respect to divestiture were modest, as it
was expected that a follow-up operation would specifically address divestiture of large enterprises. The
legal framework for divestiture has been put in place and while delayed, some progress has been made in
divestiture. Given the modest project objectives, the component is rated marginally satisfactory. Key
outputs under the component are summarized below.




                                                    - 9 -

Taxation and Incentives

With support from the project, a number of studies were carried out to establish a medium term tax reform
program which would extend measures put in place in connection with the structural adjustment program
approved in 1991. In 1995, the 1984 investment code was abrogated and a new code enacted, which had
simplified procedures for obtaining benefits. In addition, a number of tax reform measures were
implemented, including exoneration of the turnover tax (TCA) for some key production companies and
small enterprises, the reduction of the profits tax (IBD); of corporate taxes on business, and of the rates of
general income tax (IGR) from 50 to 30 percent. The project also supported some strengthening of the Tax
Administration Directorate in the Ministry of Finance through training of three senior staff. Studies
relating to the tourism industry had not been initiated when the political disturbances began in 1997, and
were dropped as there were other urgent priorities. The tax reforms should result in lowering of the
effective tax rate on business, but there is no information on their actual impact, including their fiscal
effect.

Public Enterprise Reform

Legal Framework for PE's. Under the project, the legal framework for privatization was put in place. The
following legislation was enacted: (i) a privatization law (1995) which established the framework for
privatization of state enterprises including transparent procedures; (ii) a law authorizing the liberalization
of the telecommunications sector, and the privatization of the National Postal and Telecommunications
Company, SNTP (1997); (iii) laws authorizing the privatization of the National Petroleum Company,
SNC (1997 and 2002); (iv) a law regulating the operations of public enterprises (1995); (v) a law giving
formal status to public entities which were engaged in commercial and industrial activities (1995); (vi) a
law liberalizing air transport; (vii) a law restructuring the ports and establishing a port authority to oversee
port management. In addition, the responsibilities for privatization activities were clarified; the Ministry of
Finance was given responsibility for overseeing the privatization program, and a Privatization Commission
established to manage the process.

Divestiture. Some progress was made in the divestiture of key public enterprises identified at appraisal.
Because of the size of the market and the political uncertainties prevailing in the country, most utilities will
be operated as concessions, as discussed below. The divestiture program was directly affected by the
political conflict which delayed decision-making, reduced investor confidence, and             created practical
problems related to the division of revenues and assets of public enterprises. Specific targets in the SAR
are given in Annex 1.

    Partial or Complete Privatization of PE's and adoption of private status (SCH, Air Comoros,
    SOCOPOTRAM, COMOTEL Chamber of Commerce).

l COMOTEL (state hotel company).            The one hotel remaining in the hotel company's portfolio was
    liquidated.

l SCH, the national petroleum company charged with imports and storage of petroleum products
    (Société Comorienne des Hydrocarbures). Divestiture from distribution of petroleum products had been
    completed prior to credit approval, and the gas butane bottling subsidiary was sold in 1995. Measures
    have resulted in improved distribution of gas butane, and the construction of 10 new gas stations. The
    Government initiated work on the privatization of SCH in 1997. However, progress has been slow
    because of delays in decision-making, and administrative bottlenecks. Disputes among the islands



                                                      - 10 -

  regarding the distribution of assets and revenues of the company, also contributed to delays.

l SOCOPOTRAM, the port management company (Société Comorienne des Ports et Transports
  Maritimes) . A port authority to supervise the operations of the port was created and a concession
  agreement for the management of the three ports in Comoros was signed with a regional operator at
  the end of 2001.     The operator has taken over the operations of the main port in Grande Comores,
  although the privatization of the port in Anjouan was still not completed. It is expected that port
  operations will improve with the new arrangements (the container handling capacity at the port in
  Grande Comoros has more than doubled since the new management arrangements were put in place).

l Air Comoros. Air transport was liberalized, which has improved access and reduced costs of travel to
  Comoros. Air Comoros, which had not been in operation for some time, was liquidated in 1998. Two
  domestic carriers have been established (Comores Aviation and Comoros Air Service) which are
  providing inter-island air transport. The liberalization of international routes has resulted in the
  elimination of the monopoly position of one carrier, and a number of regional carriers now link
  Comoros with regional destinations (Madagascar, South Africa, Seychelles) as well as the Persian
  Gulf, Europe and Asia. The expansion has resulted in some increase in employment in the sector,
  including in the airline sales offices.

l Chamber of Commerce. The law governing the Chamber of Commerce was revised in 1995, which
  grants it private status. The political environment has not been conducive to the Chamber's expansion.

  Restructuring of key PE's, including EEDC and SNTP

l EEDC, the electricity and water company (Electricité et Eau des Comores). Following an international
  tender, a management contract was signed in June 1997 between the Government and an international
  company. In 1998, a law governing water and electricity services and creating a new company, the
  CEE (Comorienne de l'Eau et l'Electricité) to replace EEDC. CEE received financing for emergency
  investments from the French development agency, AFD. Despite efforts to maintain the management
  contract with the international operator, international market conditions and country difficulties led to
  its cancellation in November 2001. The electricity sector continues to face serious problems. Given the
  political situation and economics of the sector, it is likely that investments will have to be carried out
  by the Government, which has requested Bank assistance in strengthening CEE.

l SNTP,     the    postal  and   telecommunications     company      (Société  Nationale   des   Postes   et
  Télécommunications). SNTP was restructured with a view to improving its operations. Legislation
  eliminating the monopoly of SNPT in the provision of telecommunications services and splitting the
  telecommunications and postal services into separate entities was approved. The documentation for
  the sale of the telecommunications company to a strategic investor is ready, pending the decision by
  Government to proceed, and a license for a cellular operator is being auctioned.              Studies on
  restructuring of the postal service and the savings bank are underway.

l Airport Authority.     An action program to improve its operations was put in place to ensure
  self-financing and an agreement with Government setting operations targets signed. The airport
  authority now covers its operating costs.




                                                  - 11 -

Enterprise Development Fund (EDF) Component

The component is rated satisfactory. The Association for the Promotion of the Private Sector (Association
pour le Développement du Secteur Prive --APSP) was established in 1995 with support from the UNDP
and other donors. APSP has the objective of assisting entrepreneurs in the creation and operations of
enterprises, including technical assistance and training to upgrade, among other things, their management
practices, accounting, production technology and marketing. This component is rated satisfactory.

Activities carried out by the APSP have contributed to business creation and development, despite the
unfavorable business environment. A total of 251 enterprises received technical assistance and training
under the program. Economic difficulties since 1997 have had an impact on the program. Some 38 APSP
beneficiaries never began operations and 32 have stopped operations. Of the total number of beneficiaries,
76 firms continue their association with APSP which is providing assistance in operations.

APSP assistance was important in enterprise creation; APSP assisted 92 enterprises obtain benefits from
the investment code. APSP business creation unit has now been transferred to the Center for Enterprise
Creation, also associated with APSP, which has helped put in place simplified procedures for business
creation. The APSP prepared 143 project feasibility studies. Of these, 33 projects obtained financing from
BDC (22), BCI (3) and development funds (8). Financing of investment projects largely stopped after
1997 with the deterioration of the political situation and the problems at BDC, described above. The
Association also carried out management training programs, including seven seminars in Comoros attended
by 69 entrepreneurs and technical training in Mauritius (nine technicians) and France (three technicians).
The Association also made available information to enterprises: it prepared an Investment Guide which is
widely used by enterprises, established a data base of           Comorian consultants with technical and
management skills that could be available to assist enterprises, prepared a report on legal issues affecting
the private sector, and a diagnostic of         Comorian enterprises.   During project implementation, the
association staff was trained, and in 2001 the associations' accounting system was modernized with a view
of using it as a training tool for enterprises. APSP established links with other training associations to help
it carry out its mandate. APSP is preparing an strategy and action plan for future activities assuming
improved economic conditions.         The strategy  envisages    transforming the Association into a more
self-sustaining association which could manage a matching grant scheme.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The appraisal report identified benefits as increased investment, and improvements in the capacities of the
Ministries of Finance and Justice. There were some FC 1 billion in investments associated with the line of
credit alone prior to the 1997 crisis; improvements in capacities of the Ministry Justice are discussed in
4.5 below.

For investments financed with the line of credit, a minimum 10 percent financial rate of return was
established at appraisal, and the sub-projects were projected to meet this target at the time the BDC
sub-loans were approved. Economic rates of return were expected to be higher than the financial rates of
return. An assessment of the projects financed under the line of credit has not been carried out by BDC,
and it is not possible to determine whether the rate of return objective was met.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

See 4.3 above



                                                    - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project contributed to the creation and/or strengthening of some key institutions. It played a role in
strengthening the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice which were unusually weak a project startup,
through extensive training, the establishment of procedures and the provision of needed equipment and
materials. The project     supported the creation of the Legal Reform Commission which defined and
monitored legal reform and the strengthening of the Judiciary. In addition, the project supported the
establishment of an institutional framework for privatization, with the appointment of the Minister of
Finance to oversee privatization and the creation of the Privatization Commission. The competencies of the
Commission were strengthened through training and technical assistance. The project also supported the
strengthening of the Fiscal Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. The political environment had a
particularly negative effect on the banking sector, and the appointment of a director at BDC which engaged
in politically-motivated lending in 1996 led to a financial crisis at BDC. Although BDC has been managed
prudently since 1997, and has been able to solidify its capital base and honor its debt service obligations, it
has not restarted lending operations pending the restructuring as discussed in Section 4.2 above.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

External factors had a considerable effect on the project. The problems associated with the secession
movement of Anjouan which led to an embargo Anjouan by the Grand Comoros and the Organization of
African Unity seriously affected economic activity in the country, including those associated with the
project. Disbursements under Bank-financed projects was suspended from 1998 to 2000.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The following factors within the control of Government affected implementation.

1.   Throughout the project implementation period, the Government was slow in taking decisions which
would have allowed the divestiture agenda to move faster.

2.    The appointment       in 1996 of a Director General at the Development Bank           who engaged in
politically-motivated lending contributed to the financial difficulties of BDC.

3.    In the first three years of project implementation, and prior to the secession crisis, Government
budgetary problems resulted in delays in the provision of counterpart funds and to problems with in
servicing of the Government debt to IDA. Delays in servicing the debt led to two brief suspensions of
disbursements under the Credit between 1995 and 1997.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

BDC did not perform effectively in the implementation of the line of credit. The appointment the Director
General in 1996 was beyond BDC's control, and the institution has made efforts to strengthening its
financial situation, including improving collections since the removal of the director in 1997. However,
BDC's could have done a more comprehensive review of the impact of the line of credit on beneficiaries.




                                                     - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project at completion is estimated at US$6.71 million or 88 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$7.76 million. The difference in project costs and IDA contribution to the project is
explained by the shift in activities from the line of credit, where there were substantial beneficiary
contributions (43 percent) to technical assistance and capacity building activities and the Enterprise
Development Fund, where the government and private sector contributions (for the Enterprise Development
Fund) were much lower. Investments under the line of credit were half of those estimated at appraisal. The
cost of activities under the Legal and EDF components where slightly higher than initially programmed,
while the cost of the Institutional Development Component was twice that estimated at appraisal, which
reflects the emphasis given to divestiture activities during project implementation. Operating costs were
higher than appraisal estimates, reflecting in part the longer implementation period of the project. IDA's
contribution to the project was US$4.93 million or 73 percent of project costs (figures as of May 1, 2003)
compared to the appraisal figures where the credit amount of US$5.14 million amounted to 67 percent of
project costs. Some US$ 0.1 million will be cancelled (some US$0.1 million difference in IDA allocations
at the beginning and end of the project are due to fluctuations in the SDR/dollar exchange rate.)

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Ultimately, the sustainability of the project is conditioned on a solution to the political problems in the
country because such resolution is a precondition for an improved business environment,              increased
confidence, investment and growth. Because of the uncertain political future, the sustainability of the
project is rated as unlikely, despite accomplishments in some areas, summarized below.

Legal reforms and reforms in the judiciary could be sustainable even if the political and economic
problems remain. continues. The sustainablity of ASPS and of the support to the private sector provided
by it is contingent on a stable political and business environment. ASPS provided much-needed technical
assistance to an embryonic business class, but the benefits would not be sustained if the eocnomic
environment does not improve. ASPS is not sustainable now, but it has strong links with the private sector
and could evolve into a representative organization akin to other successful African experiments. The
sustainability of measures linked with divestiture program, including the legal framework for privatization,
is linked to political developments.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project did not establish institutions for the purpose of implementing the project. The Ministries of
Finance and Justice will continue implementing the reform agenda supported by the project as part of their
normal functions.      Similarly, institutions created or strengthened in connection with the project will
continue carrying out their functions which will be required after project completion. This applies to the
Privatization Commission, the Legal Reform Commission, and APSP. A work program for future legal
reform has been prepared. As mentioned above, APSP has developed a work program with a view to
becoming increasingly self-financing. In 2001, the Bank approved an Institutional Development Grant to
support continued legal and judiciary reforms pending the decision to proceed with a new operation. The
Government has requested further Bank assistance in the area of legal reform and support to enterprises. If
the political situation stabilizes, support for legal reform appears justified given the progress made, and the
long-term nature of reform programs in this field.




                                                       - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The project design was consistent with the government's development strategy and the Bank assistance
strategy for Comoros. The appraisal team consulted key beneficiaries in the private sector, and identified
key risks and benefits. The appraisal report shows that considerable preparatory work was carried out,
contains a clear evaluation of the legal and judicial system and spells out private and financial sector
issues.   The appraisal also contains a detailed action plan for the project (the project predates the
introduction of the logical framework approach) and an assessment of supervision requirements, which
were expected to be above average given the strong technical assistance content of the project (17 weeks
per year in the first two years, and 12 weeks thereafter). The appraisal team coordinated its work with
other donors; in the case of the EDF component, it extended support initiated by the UNDP.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision is rated marginally satisfactory, in part because of the supervision performance 1995 and
1997. There was continuity in project supervision in terms of staffing, and the team members had the
requisite skills (legal, financial, private sector and divestiture specialists). The project was supervised by
two task managers, the first from Board until 2000, and the second until project closing. The same lawyer
supervised the project from appraisal to closing which probably contributed to the success of the
component. Projet teams worked closely with other donors (e.g., UNDP, French Development Agency and
the European Investment Bank), which increased the effectiveness of the assistance given. This was
particularly true in the divestiture program and on matters relating to BDC. The project was intensively
supervised in the first year, with five missions to the country between 1994 and 1995 to advise the
government in project startup and on actions relating to effectiveness, which took longer than anticipated
because of the inexperience with Bank procedures of the project team and logistical problems resulting
from the absence of a Comorian representative in Washington (the legal documents for the Credit were
signed in Paris). Supervision in the following two years was unsatisfactory. There is a shortage of
information in the Bank on the project between 1995 and 1999. Between March 1995 and July 1997 there
was only one field visit each by the privatization specialist and by the Senior Counsel for supervision of
the legal component, both in 1996. There appears to have been no field supervision of the line of credit
component during this period. The reason for the decline in field supervision during this period is not
documented; the task manager did not work in other Indian Ocean countries, which may have made the
logistics of his travels to Comoros difficult. A mid-term review was carried out in November 1997 in
Washington, probably because of the unsettled political situation in the Comoros as a result of the
Anjouan secession announcement in August 1997 (the Government prepared a mid-term report, but the
Bank's mid-term report is not available in the Bank records). Following the resumption of activities, the
project was adequately supervised, with regular supervision from the task manager and specialists. On
resumption of activities in 2000, the Bank was proactive in identifying urgent needs which were
incorporated in the Bank's Transitional Strategy, and adjusting project activities to meet these needs which
resulted in extensions of the closing date by 18 months. The Quality Assurance Group did not assess the
quality of supervision.




                                                     - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated marginally satisfactory.         The appraisal work was satisfactory.
Supervision in the first year of implementation was satisfactory, but there was a decline in supervision in
the period between 1995 and 1997. Supervision was appropriate after the project was reinitiated in 2000,
although a last mission would have been helpful. Bank staff was proactive in addressing problems
following the secession crisis and the project was reinitiated focusing on key activities. The decision to
close the line of credit and to focus the project on key technical assistance activities and to extend the
closing date by 18 months aimed to help the government reinitate activities after the period of unrest. The
extension permitted the completion of some key activities such as the arrangements for port management.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Government performance under preparation was satisfactory. The Government identified and appointed a
capable project coordinator who was instrumental in involving other government agencies in the design of
the project. Government officials participated in the definition of all project components and          the
development bank and the commercial bank participated in defining investment requirements.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government performance in implementation was mixed, and on balance, is rated unsatisfactory. A number
of reforms were introduced particularly in connection with the legal component. However, delays in
implementing privatization policies and the decision to appoint a director at BDC which engaged in
politically-motivated lending seriously affected the project outcome. The Government was also slow in
providing counterpart funds and at times had difficulties honoring its debt service obligations with IDA.
This led to two suspensions of IDA disbursements for the project in the period 1995-97 which affected
implementation. Over the past two years, the Government has sought to implement the Transitional
Strategy agreed with the Bank, although the continued political problems have hampered progress.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Except for BDC which implemented the line of credit component,                performance of the project
implementation units was satisfactory. The Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Finance, who was
technically competent, remained in his position during the entire implementation period and was
instrumental in ensuring continuity. There was also continuity in the staff working in the Legal and EDF
components. Project financial management and reporting was adequate, and communications between the
project implementation units and the Bank continued even when the credit was suspended. Project
reporting was generally satisfactory. In the last two years, project reporting was in the form of matrices
summarizing the agreed action plan, which were somewhat less informative than reports prior to 2000.
Each of the units reported to the project coordinator who transmitted the information to the Bank. Project
accounting was adequate. Audits were produced on time, except when disbursements were suspended.
Audits for 1998 and 1999 were completed in 2000.




                                                   - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower performance affected the pace of public enterprise reforms, and contributed to the deterioration
of the performance of the development bank, which in turn affected the outcome of the line of credit.
Budgetary problems affected the provision of counterpart funds and the timely debt servicing of the IDA
credit which led to short suspensions; both problems affected project implementation.                 Therefore,
performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The following lessons can be drawn from the experience with the project:

1.       Projects which are broadly defined allow for flexibility in implementation, a feature which is
particularly important in high risk countries.     When economic and political conditions deteriorated, the
Bank reoriented the project to focus on legal reform, business support services and private provision of
infrastructure services, and stopped the line of credit. These activities were part of the Bank's Transitional
Support Strategy which had been defined with the Government.

2.       Politically-sensitive reforms require strong government commitment and are best implemented in
the context of a policy-based operation. The project was approved at a time when Comoros was carrying
out a reform program supported by the Bank and the IMF. As the political situation deteriorated, the pace
of the reform program decelerated, and difficult reforms, such as divestiture, were delayed. A follow-up
operation that would have focused on divestiture of infrastructure enterprises did not materialize. In high
risk countries particularly, it would be helpful to have most politically-sensitive measures introduced
up-front

3.       Some institutional and legal reforms which are principally technical in nature can be effectively
introduced in spite of political problems. Implementation of this type of program helps maintain the
dialogue with the country. Work on the legal and judicial component, which involved largely technical
activities such as compilation and updating of legistation, was able to proceed notwithstanding a very
difficult political climate.

4.       Successful implementation is closely linked to the competence and commitment of project teams in
the country. The project had a capable Project Coordinator and a solid team implementing the Legal
reform component, including a Legal Reform Coordinator in the Ministry of Justice and a Legal Reform
Commission. This permitted continuity in the implementation of the project, notwithstanding the political
crisis and numerous changes in the cabinet. On the other hand, the appointment of a Director General at
BDC who engaged in politically-motivated lending had a negative effect on the BDC's finances and on the
line of credit performance.

5.       Donor coordination is particularly important in risky countries.              During preparation and
implementation, Bank teams worked closely with other donors involved in activities associated with the
project. This facilitated work in such sensitive areas as divestiture (e.g. electricity) and the development
bank.

6.       It is useful in high risk countries to define a clear exit strategy. There is an increasing recognition
of the need to define a clear Bank exit strategy in specific projects, to be discussed with Government, which
would define triggers that would lead to suspension and cancellation of the project. Given that the secession



                                                      - 17 -

movement of 1997 was difficult to predict, it is not obvious that a predefined exit strategy would have
resulted in a different outcome in terms of Bank response in this particular project. However, given
developments in the Comoros, it might be useful to identify triggers in future programs.

7.        The staffing of Bank teams supervising projects in countries with small programs needs to be
carefully planned.      Field supervision between 1995 and 1997 was less than adequate, and may have
reflected the difficulties of fielding missions to Comoros which is distant from most African countries and
had a small program. It is probably advisable that teams working on other Indian Ocean countries also
work on the Comoros. Bank follow-up improved after Bank activities were reinitiated in 2000, as the task
manager appointed was involved in other Indian Ocean countries and could visit the country regularly.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Ministry of Finance has prepared an Implementation Completion Report (May 15, 2003), which is in
the project files. The Summary of the Government Report is included in Annex 8. Main points in the
section on lessons learned were: (i) the importance of privatization in ensuring an appropriate business
environment and the difficulties of advancing the privatization program as a result of political difficulties;
(ii) the need to carry out a second phase of the legal reform program initiated with support of the project;
(iii) the importance of APSP, which was supported by the project, in the provision of support to the private
sector. (iv) it is not possible to quantify the benefits of the line of credit component but it is positive. BDC
has met the objectives set by its Board in 1997; sale of some of BDC shares has not been possible because
of the political environmnent.

The Government has reviewed and aggreed with the content of the ICR prepared by the Bank (letter of
June 2003).

(b) Cofinanciers:

N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Private sector enterprises which benefited from services of APSP noted their satisfaction with the program
in a survey conducted in 2002. Beneficiaries found APSP assistance in meeting formalities for business
creation and in carrying out reviews of business ventures. The beneficiary assessment of the program is in
the project files.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate

Increased Investment                                                      Investments directly financed under the
                                                                          project totaled US$ 2.2 million; most
 Investments directly financed under the                                  firms are operational notwithstanding
project US$4.5 million (SAR figure)                                       economic conditions

Incorporation of new enterprises/individual                               Figure for incorporation of enterprises not
firms: one industrial SSE and one importer                                available. Over 90 enterprises set up with
per quarter (SAR target)                                                  project support




Improved business environment

No specific indicators established at appraisal                           Business legislation, including OHADA
                                                                          Uniform Acts, was compiled and
                                                                          published for the first time; key
.                                                                         legislation affecting business updated
                                                                          and operations of courts improved. Legal
                                                                          and institutional framework for
                                                                          privatization put in place and state
                                                                          divested from operations is some key
                                                                          areas. Improved access and reduced
                                                                          costs of transport as a result of
                                                                          liberalization of air transport

Output Indicators:

Indicator/Matrix                               P rojected in last PSR1      Actual/Latest Estimate

Line of Credit

Total subprojects financed under the line of                                29 credits for a total of US$1.3 million
credit to amount to US$ 4.5 milion                                          for investment projects totaling $2.3
                                                                            million were financed

One third of the sub-projects to be financed                                Banks financed 21 percent and
by the banks and disbursements under the                                    beneficiaries 22 percent of
line of credit to reach US$ 0.5 million a year                              sub-projects

Implement BDC business plan.
                                                                            BDC faced difficulties relating to poor
                                                                            economic climate and weak
                                                                            management. A new plan instituted in
Legal and Judicial Reform (SAR)                                             1997; targets of that plan achieved

All laws and regulations regarding the
business environment to be compiled and                                     Business legislation compiled and
published                                                                   published in 7 volumes

Adoption of procedures for preparation,
publication and distribution of the Official                                Procedures adopted. Official Gazette
Gazette. Official Gazette publication resumed                               being published regularly. 10 years of
                                                                            back issues of the Gazette published
Establishment of a Business Law Reform
Commission                                                                  Done. 1995




                                                               - 19 -

Revision of the commercial code and related
legislation, including the investment code                    Business legislation updated, including
                                                              the investment code, the tax code

Business laws conform to OHADA Uniform
Acts (2000 project amendment)                                 Business legislation revised to conform
                                                              with OHADA Uniform Acts which
                                                              became effective in 2001. Revised
                                                              legislation incorporated in the
                                                              compilation of business law

Ten new judges to benefit from long-term                      19 new judges (magistrates) received
training sessions                                             long term training

Commercial courts to be created un each first                 First Instance Tribunals in the three
instance tribunal                                             islands has a commercial court

Training in commercial and business laws of                   24 paralegal staff assigned to the
judges and other legal and paralegal staff                    courts. Three seminars on business
                                                              and OHADA assisted by all judges and
                                                              member of the legal profession
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity
Building

Taxation

Exoneration from turnover tax (TCA) for key
products


Lowering the miscellaneous profits tax (IDB)                  Production enterprises and small
from 50-30 percent                                            enterprises (less than FC 20 million in
                                                              sales) exonerated
Reduction in the number of general income
tax (IGR) brackets to six and reducing                        Done
maximum rate to 30 percent.

Simplification and reduction of corporate                     Done
taxes


Public Enterprise Reform                                      Done

Adoption of a new legal framework for PE's,
including status of key PE's (energy and                      Legislation enacted covering:
telecommunications), put in place                             liberalization of telecommunications and
                                                              of air transport; authorizing privatization
                                                              of telecommunications and petroleum
                                                              companies; regulating operations of
                                                              public enterprises; restructuring of the
                                                              ports and establishing a port authority;
                                                              restructuring of the electricity company

                                                              Assigned responsibilities in 1995
Ministry of Finance designated responsible
for overseeing privatization
                                                              Partial or complete privatization of PE's,
Partial or complete privatization of PE's, as                 as follows:
follows:

-COMOTEL: Completion of divestiture with                      -COMOTEL. done. all hotels sold or
disposal of Hotel Ylan Ylang or liquidation of                closed.
the company
                                                              -SCH (petroleum).done. gas butane
-SCH (petroleum): Divestiture from remaining                  subsidiary sold; sale documents for
ancillary activities (gas butane). Activities to              company have been prepared
be limited to importing of petroleum products

-SOCOTROPAN (ports): study on                                 -SOCOPOTRAM (ports). done.



                                                    - 20 -

restructuring. completion of restructuring                                             company restructured; concession
program. invitation to tender for handling                                             agreement (port operations) signed in
activities contract                                                                    2001

-Chamber of Commerce: adoption of                                                      -Chamber of Commerce. partially
privatization law                                                                      accomplished. granted private status in
                                                                                       1995. Does not yet act as true
Reorganization of PE's                                                                 representative of private sector

-EECD.Finalization of negotiations for a                                               -EECD. done. Privatized in 1997;
management contract with a partner.                                                    restructured into CEE in 1998.
Signature of performance contract and                                                  privatization contract rescinded in 2001
management agreement
                                                                                       -Air Comoros. done. Air Comoros
-Air Comoros. Replacemt of equipment with                                              liquidated in 1998 due to continued
smaller capacity more efficient aircraft.                                              losses; two new private companies
Private airlines allowed to operate inter-island                                       operating in domestic routes.
flights without discrimination; improvement of                                         International routes opened and service
international connections                                                              increased

- SNTP (telecommunications) Splitting SNPT                                             -SNTP. done. Split into
into separate companies                                                                telecommunications and postal
(telecommunications; postal services, and                                              services. Cellular operator being
savings bank. Telecommunication company                                                sought; sale documents for
to operate under                                                                       telecommunications company have
                                                                                       been prepared. Studies on
                                                                                       improvement of postal services and
                                                                                       savings bank being prepared

-Airport Authority. Signature of performace
contract with the government to make                                                   - Done. Airport finances its operations
self-financing in operations possible                                                  costs




Enterprise Development Fund

Feasibility study of 150 projects to be
supported by the Enterprise Development                                                143 feasibility studies prepared.
Fund

At least 52 entrepreneurs benefit from CASP
training and support in order to create their                                          251 Enterprises receive assistance and
own company                                                                            training; 92 enterprises received
                                                                                       assistance in obtaining benefits from
                                                                                       the investment code




Note: PSR table adjusted to conform to logical framework presentation, SAR and 2000 ammendment. SAR indicators drawn from text
and action plan.




                                                               - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                               Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                               Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
                                               US$ million     US$ million
Component
Investments                                   4.45             2.23            50.1
Legal and Judicial Reform                     1.10             1.34            121.8
Institutional - Capacity Building Component   0.50             1.24            248.0
Enterprise Development Fund                   1.00             1.26            125.9
  (i) Assistance to promoters                 0.90
  (ii) Training for banks                     0.10
Audits                                        0.25             0.15            60.0
Incremental Operational Costs                 0.16             0.49            306.3
Total Baseline Cost                           7.46
Contingencies                                 0.20
                          Total Project Costs 7.66             6.71            87.6
                   Total Financing Required    7.29


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB          NCB              2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00        0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.00        5.03          0.00          5.03
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.95)         (0.00)       (2.95)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00        2.27          0.00          2.27
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (1.85)         (0.00)       (1.85)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00        0.16          0.00          0.16
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.14)         (0.00)       (0.14)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00        0.20          0.00          0.20
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00        0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             0.00          0.00        7.66          0.00          7.66
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (5.14)         (0.00)       (5.14)




                                               - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              2.67             0.00              2.67
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.62)            (0.00)           (1.62)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.55             0.00              3.55
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.87)            (0.00)           (2.87)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.49             0.00              0.49
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.44)            (0.00)           (0.44)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              6.71             0.00              6.71
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.93)            (0.00)           (4.93)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Investment                      2.50                      1.95        1.27                    0.96       50.8               49.2
Legal/Judicial                  0.85         0.25                     1.03         0.31                  121.2    124.0
Institutional/Capacity          0.40         0.10                     0.99         0.25                  247.5    250.0
Building
EDF                             0.85                      0.15        1.07                    0.19       125.9             126.7
Audits                          0.20         0.05                     0.12         0.03                  60.0      60.0
Incremental Operating           0.14         0.02                     0.44         0.05                  314.3    250.0
Costs
Unallocated                     0.20                                                                      0.0
Total                           5.14         0.42         2.10        4.92         0.64       1.15       95.7     152.4     54.8




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count             Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification                 1    Economist (1)
              5/17/93 -5/24/93
              Pre-appraisal                  4    Economist (1), PSD Special. (2),
              11/30/93-12/15/93                   SR Counsel (1)
                                                  Financial Analyst (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal                           Economist (1), PSD Special.
              01/29-02/16/94                      (1), SR Counsel (1)
                                                  Financial Analyst (1)


 Supervision
              06/25/94                       1    PSD Specialist (2), Financial           S               S
                                                  Analyst (1)
              09/28/1994*                    1    SR. Counsel (1)                         S               S
              11/14/1994                     2    Financial Analyst (1), Private          S               S
                                                  Sector Specialist (1)
              02/26/1995*                    2    Financial Analyst (1),                  S               S
                                                  Sr. Counsel (1)
              03/27/1995                     2    Financial Analyst (1),                  S               S
                                                  SR. Counsel (1)
              04/05/1996                     1    PSD Specialist (1)                      S               S
              04/15/1996*                    1    SR. Counsel (1)                         S               S
              02/20/1997*                    3    Private Sector Specialist (3)           S               S
              03/07/1997*                    1    SR. Councel (1)                         S               S
              06/06/1997                     1    Financial Analyst (1)                   S               S
              11/30/1997 1/                  1    Financial Analyst (1)                   S               S
              03/17/2000                     1    SR. Financial Officer (1)               U               U
              02/13/2001                     4    SR. Financial Officer (1),              S               S
                                                  PSD Specialist (1), Petroleum
                                                  Specialist (1), Port Specialist (1)
              06/27/2001*                    1    Telecommunications Special. (1)         S               S
              07/30/2001                     1    SR. Counsel (1)                         S               S
              03/31/2002 3/                  1    SR. Financial Officer (1)               U               U
              06/11/2002                     1    SR. Counsel

 ICR


1/ Supervision conducted in Washington, Project Coordinator visited the Bank.
2/ Development objectives and implementation progress rated unsatisfactory in PSR 06/27/1999.
3/ ICR discussed in last supervision mission.




                                                   - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              5.6                          18.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 53.9                         169.3
  Supervision                          88.70                         370.7
  ICR
  Total                                148.2                         558.1




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



1.   Staff Appraisal Report
2.   Bank Mission Supervision Reports and Aide-mémoires
3.   Audit Reports
4.   Other Reports :

     -APSP. Rapport d' Activités 2001. Bilan des Activités et Impact (1995-2001).
     -Conseiller Financier dans le Cadre de la Recherche et de la Mise en Place d' Un Partenariat
     Financier Avec La Banque de Développement des Comores. Rapport de Stratégie. July, 2002.
     -Banque de Développement des Comores. Exercice de Clôture le 31 Décembre 1998.
     -Banque de Développement des Comores. Note Sur les Mécanismes d'Octrois, de Refus et de
     Gestion de Crédits par la BDC.
     -Ministère de l'Economie, Des Investissements, Du Commerce et de l'Artisanat. Guide de
     l'Investisseur.
     -Ministère des Finances et du Budget. Projet d'Appui aux Développement des Petites Entreprises.
     Rapport d' Achèvement.
     -Ministère des Finances et du Budget. Projet d'Appui aux Développement des Petites Entreprises.
     Synthèse du Rapport d' Achèvement.
     -Ministère des Finances et du Budget. Projet d'Appui aux Développement des Petites Entreprises.
     Revue a Mi-Parcours.
     -Ministère des Finances et du Budget. Projet d'Appui aux Développement des Petites Entreprises.
     Revue de Portefeuille. Etat d'Avancement.1998.




                                               - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Synthèse du Rapport d'Achèvement

Leçons Tirées du Projet

A.      Composante Ministère des Finances, du Budget et de la Privatisation

D'une manière générale, le processus de privatisation des entreprises publiques se trouve au coeur
d'importants enjeux et considérations politiques. La privatisation a pour objet de stimuler
l'investissement privé, de rendre plus compétitive l'économie nationale et de favoriser le
développement des échanges. Les changements fréquents des gouvernements et membres de la
commission de privatisation, et le manque de cohérence des actions dans la mise en oeuvre de ce
programme ont renforcé la méfiance des investisseurs et des partenaires. L'avenir et l'efficacité du
processus de privatisation dépend pour une large part de la détermination du gouvernement à
arrêter des méthodes transparentes et fiables garantissant les intérêts vitaux du développement
économique du pays et ce en conformité à la loi cadre portant privatisation des entreprises
publiques.

L'instabilité politique qui prévaut aux Comores n'attire pas forcement les meilleurs investisseurs
pour le pays, a malheureusement saper la confiance des investisseurs et ralenti le processus
d'amélioration du climat des affaires. Cette situation a ralenti l'investissement du secteur privé et
entravé la bonne exécution d'une stratégie de développement du secteur privé.

La réforme des entreprises publiques est un élément crucial du développement du secteur privé.
La rationalisation et la privatisation des entreprises publiques créeront pour le secteur privé de
nouvelles opportunités de développement dans des domaines présentement réservés à l'Etat et
réduiront le coût élevé des prestations des entreprises publiques en améliorant la qualité de leurs
services.

B.      La Composante Juridique

Les différentes activités réalisées dans le cadre de la Composante Juridique ont permis de réaliser
d'importants travaux qui ont sensiblement amélioré l'environnement juridique et judiciaire du pays
et de mesurer le long chemin à parcourir pour l'établissement d'un véritable Etat de droit. Les
résultats obtenus par la Composante Juridique doivent être pérennisés dans le cadre d'un autre
programme beaucoup plus ambitieux d'appui à la justice.

D'où l'importance de poursuivre la vulgarisation des textes en vigueur (B.1), de renforcer l'appui
au Service du Journal Officiel (B.2), d'accentuer et de diversifier les actions de formation (B3), de
la nécessité d'entamer des travaux de génie civile pour rénover les Palais de Justice (B.4) ,
d'améliorer la procédure judiciaire (B.5) et de renforcer l'efficacité des Ministères de la Justice
(B.6).




                                                - 30 -

B.1 : La vulgarisation des textes en vigueur

La compilation des textes législatifs et réglementaires en vigueur aux Comores a permis de sortir
de la clandestinité plusieurs textes. Cependant, l'accord de crédit portant projet ADPE a limité
cette compilation aux textes relatifs au droit des affaires, au droit civil et à la procédure civile.
Compte tenu des doléances des praticiens du droit, des justiciables et des opérateurs
économiques, il convient d'élargir cette compilation à d'autres domaines du droit notamment le
droit pénal, la procédure pénal. En outre les textes déjà compilés en 1995 doivent être actualisés
pour tenir compte de toutes les modifications intervenues depuis, notamment le Code Général des
Impôts (CGI). Enfin, en dépit de l'effort considérable réalisé pour vulgariser les textes en vigueur,
les opérateurs économiques et les administrations ne respectent pas scrupuleusement leur
application.

B.2 : l'appui au Service du Journal Officiel des Comores

L'appui de la Composante Juridique du Projet ADPE a permis de relancer les activités du Service
du JOC et l'impression du journal qui avait cessé de paraître depuis 1992. L'assistance technique
et financière du Projet a permis d'équiper en mobilier de bureau et en équipement informatiques le
service, de financer la formation d'un agent et l'impression des numéros couvrant la période allant
de 1992 à 2002. Toutefois, le contenu du JOC n'est pas complet d'où l'intérêt d'un nouvel appui
au service, sous réserve de sa réorganisation administrative pour tenir compte de la nouvelle
configuration institutionnelle du pays et d'un redéploiement du personnel.

B.3 : La poursuite des actions de formation

La formation initiale des magistrats a permis en 6 ans d'accroître sensiblement le nombre des
magistrats exerçant dans le pays. Toutefois, l'absence de formation au profit des avocats et des
Officiers de Police Judiciaire (OPJ), continue de pénaliser le bon fonctionnement de l'institution
judiciaire, d'où l'intérêt d'élargir le champ d'intervention de la formation pour renforcer la
formation initiation et continue des magistrats, des Greffiers, Huissiers, mais aussi des avocats, et
des OPJ.

Compte tenu du coût élevé de la formation initiale et continue à l'étranger, il convient d'entamer
une réflexion pour la mise en place aux Comores d'un Institut de Formation Juridique (IFJ) afin
de dispenser localement ces cours de formation.




                                                - 31 -

B.4 : L'amélioration de la Procédure judiciaire

Les reformes legilastives, l'acquisition des équipements informatiques au profit des Palais de
Justice, la mise en place d'une bibliothèque juridique, l'acquisition des équipements de
sonorisation ont permis d'améliorer sensiblement la procédure judiciaire. Cependant, en l'absence
d'une informatisation des différents services de ces palais, l'utilisation des équipements
informatiques n'est pas efficiente. Par ailleurs, le fonctionnement de la Chambre commerciale est
balbutiant et le registre de commerce est dans un piteux état. D'où l'intérêt d'accroître le parc
informatique de l'institution judiciaire, d'assurer l'informatisation des services des Ministères de la
justice, et des institutions judiciaires et d'en assurer la formation des utilisateurs.

Cependant, les efforts du projet dans le domaine n'ont pas permis, compte tenu des délais impartis
et de certaines autres contraintes, d'atteindre les résultas escomptés, à savoir la mise en place d'un
dispositif judiciaire parfaitement favorable aux initiatives privées, en particulier au plan de leur
financement. En effet, les procédures de réalisations des garanties demeurent complexes et les
Comores ne disposent toujours pas de tribunaux de commerce d'ou la réticence des institutions
financières locales et étrangères à investir dans le pays. Cette dimension du problème devrait
occuper une place prioritaire au cours de la prochaine phase du projet.

B.5 : Renforcer les Ministères de la Justice

Le Projet a assuré pendant plusieurs années le financement de plusieurs actions au Ministère de la
Justice de l'ancienne République Fédérale Islamique de Comores (RFIC). Avec la mise en place
de l'Union des Comores, plusieurs ministères de la justice ont été créés au niveau des îles
autonomes. La Composante Juridique a financé l'acquisition des équipements informatiques et
bureautiques au profit des Ministères de la Justice de ces îles. Ces actions ne sont pas suffisantes
pour accompagner la mise en place de ces nouvelles institutions. Il est nécessaire d'accroître
sensiblement l'appui technique et financier à ces ministère de la justice pour renforcer leur
efficacité et leur rentabilité et rendre opérationnel le Centre de documentation juridique au niveau
de l'Union et créer des antennes de ce centre au niveau des îles autonomes.

C.      Composante Fonds de promotion de l'entreprise (APSP)

1) Ce qui a donné satisfaction

1.1) Organisation devenue incontournable pour tous les acteurs du développement économique
national.
Depuis sa création en 1995, l'APSP s'est érigé comme institution incontournable pour le secteur
privé comorien dans la création et l'assistance aux entreprises. Sur ce plan, l'APSP a acquis
progressivement tout le long de son existence une notoriété incontestable. L'association est
arrivée au point que tout investisseur étranger ou national s'adressant auprès de n'importe quel
service public ou privé d'appui est directement orienté vers elle pour avoir toute forme de
renseignement sur le secteur privé national.

1.2) Centre de formalités des entreprises. L'APSP a su s'imposer, entre autres, dans la création
des entreprises par son Centre de Formalités des Entreprises en jouant le rôle d'interface entre le
pouvoir public et le secteur privé dans toutes les formalités administratives liées à la création, la


                                                   - 32 -

reprise ou la restructuration d'entreprises nationales comme étrangères.

1.3) Les conventions de partenariats. Des partenariats ont été ficelés avec des organisations telles
que l'Institut de la Francophonie pour l'Entrepreneuriat (IFE Maurice) dans le cadre de la
formation des entrepreneurs de haut niveau. D'autres formes de partenariat nouées avec les
institutions nationales telles l'Office de Formation Technique et Professionnelle (OFTP) L'APSP
assurre la présidence de l'Office depuis avril 2000 et ce pour 2 ans et le Fonds d'Appui au
Développement Communautaire (FADC volet AGR), attribuent un grand rôle à l'association dans
le développement du secteur privé.

1.4) Les études de faisabilité de projet. Les unités techniques ont été particulièrement sollicitées
dans le montage des études de faisabilité. Nombreux sont les dossiers finalisés et présentés aux
institutions financières.
Si les études ont connu un net ralentissement depuis 1999, c'est dû à un changement stratégique
décidé par l'APSP qui a préféré étudier les projets auxquels les promoteurs avaient préalablement
la promesse de financement auprès d'une institution de crédit. Cette réduction des dossiers traités
est également liée à l'arrêt d'octroi des crédits d'investissements par la BDC.

1.5) La formation des ressources humaines. Pratiquement tous les cadres de l'association (à
l'exception de l'agronome qui par 2 fois sa participation à une formation prévue sur le plan
d'action n'a pu être effective pour des problèmes budgétaires) ont bénéficié d'une formation
complémentaire à leur travail. Ces formations ont été un motif de satisfaction dans le cadre du
renforcement des ressources humaines mais aussi, l'impact a été conséquent dans l'amélioration
des prestations de l'APSP.

2) Les activités qui ont relativement bien fonctionné

2.1) Suivi sur le terrain.

2.1.1)    La limite des moyens. Entre 1998 et 2000, la suspension des crédits IDA a
considérablement ralenti les activités de l'APSP. Bien qu'ayant fait recours ailleurs, l'association a
attendu près de 6 mois pour pouvoir résoudre une partie de ce problème. Entre 2000 et 2001, la
majorité des décaissements venaient remboursaient des dépenses effectivement engagées. Ainsi,
dans la plupart des cas, l'APSP n'avait pas les moyens d'engager certaines actions prévues dans le
plan d'action par ce manque répété de trésorerie. Les interventions sur le terrain éloigné ou en
milieu rural ont été interrompues à cause de la vétusté des véhicules en notre possession. Les
ateliers de formation ont aussi subi les aléas du financement, car il fallait réunir un budget avant de
programmer un atelier. De même, les effets de la crise séparatiste qu'a connu le pays entre 1997
et 2001 ont considérablement ralenti les activités de l'association au niveau de l'île d'Anjouan.

2.1.2) Le manque de culture entrepreneuriale. Si la quasi-totalité des entreprises visitées a
éprouvé un besoin d'assistance que ce soit en gestion, en technique de production qu'en
organisation interne, lorsqu'il s'agit de contribuer au frais que pourrait engendrer cette assistance,
peu sont les entrepreneurs qui ont souhaité une intervention. Une analyse des expériences passées
montre que le fond du problème ne tient pas à la nature des appuis, mais plutôt à l'approche que
l'on pourrait qualifier « d'assistanat » des entrepreneurs. Ceci implique nécessairement un fort
volet d'animation et de formation qui sensibilisera les entrepreneurs aux rôles de l'appui conseil
dans la gestion et aux règles de l'entrepreneurship.




                                                  - 33 -

2.1.3)   La détérioration des services d'infrastructures. La détérioration progressive des services
d'infrastructures a été un des facteurs ayant amplifié la difficulté des petites activités, les conduisant
purement et simplement à la fermeture, ce qui a diminué progressivement le portefeuille d'entreprises à
suivre sur le terrain.

2.2) La carence de données statistiques

Le manque de données relatives aux entreprises reste un sérieux handicap pour le développement
du secteur privé national. Bien que n'ayant pas été parmi les grandes orientations dans les
différents plans d'action, le recueil des données devrait être une activité indirecte nécessaire à
toute forme d'appui au secteur privé.Une amorce de recueil de ces données a été effectuée par
l'Association pour certaines des entreprises ayant obtenu une assistance auprès de ses Unités
Techniques ou de son Centre de Formalités. Il convient dans le futur, de rassembler toute sorte de
donnée relative au secteur privé national (nombre d'entreprises, création d'emplois par secteur,
chiffre d'affaires par secteur, opportunités d'investissements sectoriels divers, taux de
mécanisation, d'informatisation des entreprises).


3) Ce qui n'a pas été présent

3.1) L'animation

A part quelques participations aux salons du Subex Fair et de rares parutions dans le journal,
l'aspect communication et publicité à été faiblement ressenti. Par contre l'aspect « moteur » n'a
pas été très bien appréhendé. Un projet d'organiser des séminaires sur le secteur privé en général
et l'APSP en particulier a été initié pour le cinquième anniversaire (prévu en juillet 2000) mais
cela n'a pas été possible à cause notamment du manque de moyens financiers. Fort heureusement,
sous l'impulsion de l'APSP et du Commissariat au plan, un exemple d'une excellente coopération
de quelques organisations de développement oeuvrant dans le pays (FADC, AIEB, PNUD, CGP,
APSP et OPACO) a permis la réalisation d'un séminaire - bilan et de relance sur le secteur privé
en décembre 2002.

3.2) Le Conseil d'administration

Le conseil d'administration n'a pas joué le rôle moteur d'un conseil dans une organisation. Il a été
passif tout le long de son existence. Les initiatives prises par les différents présidents s'écartaient
souvent des réels problèmes de l'Association. La source de ces défaillances provient en partie des
articles des statuts de l'Association liés au Conseil. Un amendement de ces articles s'impose en
vue de lui donner son rôle de moteur dans l'élaboration des plans d'action et la surveillance de
son exécution.

D.      Composante ligne de crédit

Parmi les objectifs fixés lors de la mise en place de la ligne de crédit, figurait l'apport d'une aide
financière et technique destinée à promouvoir et à développer des investissements productifs.
L'exécution du projet a été satisfaisante malgré le gel d'une partie importante des montants



                                                - 34 -

alloués en raison, d'une part, de la situation de trésorerie délicate dans laquelle s'est trouvée la
Banque et de ce que l'avènement du mouvement séparatiste Anjouanais a créé un environnement
économique qui n'a pas facilité la crédibilité de nouveaux investissements et des sous projets déjà
financés sur la ligne IDA. Cependant, la BDC a pu re-financer sur la ligne de crédits IDA des
projets dans divers secteurs de l'économie pour un montant de 560.500.000 FC. Ces projets
concernent les secteurs des transports, de l'élevage, du tourisme et du secteur immobilier dans
une faible mesure.

Cette ligne a permis également la création d'un éventail de projets d'import substitution et des
projets valorisant pour la plupart, une matière première locale. L'environnement politique et
financier dans lequel s'est inscrite la ligne de crédit a pénalisé ses projets tant sur le plan de la mise
en route, de l'exploitation et des remboursements. La conséquence est que l'on assiste à une
accumulation des impayés attribuables en grande partie aux impayés provenant des projets
endommagés lors des évènements meurtriers à Anjouan.

Bien qu'il est difficile de mesurer l'impact réel des projets financés sur l'économie, nous pensons
que la plupart de ses projets auraient pu contribuer à l'amélioration des biens et services qui ont
fait toujours défaut jusque là. Mais les conditions politiques défavorables qui ont accompagné la
mise en place de la ligne ont limité la portée économique des projets susvisés. Par ailleurs, il est à
noter que l'impact des actions aurait pu être plus significatif si le projet s'était aussi intéressé aux
micro entreprises dont la contribution au PIB et à la création d'emplois est incontestable dans un
pays comme les Comores.

Nous pensons également dans le contexte spécifique des Comores, où les besoins en matière de
logement sont importants, l'augmentation du pourcentage destiné au logement pourrait aider à
développer des petits projets en amont et aval à ce secteur, d'une part, et améliorer les conditions
d'habitation des populations, d'autre part. Sur le plan des impayés, ils sont à l'image de la
situation économique et politique du pays dominée par une instabilité politique. Malgré cette
situation, la mise à disposition de cette ligne a permis à la BDC d'améliorer la position de ses
ressources.

Situation Actuelle de la BDC

Depuis sa création, la BDC a bénéficié d'un appui important de ses bailleurs de fonds, qui lui a
permis de financer à hauteur de 70 % des octrois annuels, le secteur productif et 30 % pour
l'habitat. A la suite des difficultés de trésorerie, les octrois sont suspendus depuis 1997. L'effort
de redressement de la BDC en cours de réalisation se confirme. L'institution qui demeure solvable
a retrouvé maintenant un niveau de liquidité satisfaisante.

Après avoir écarté l'idée de fermeture de la BDC, celle-ci étant la seule institution pouvant
accorder des crédits d'investissements, les bailleurs de fonds posèrent alors comme conditions
préalables à une reprise possible de l'activité et l'octroi d'une ligne de crédit, la reconstitution
d'une trésorerie minimale égale à 1 Milliard de francs comoriens tout en exigeant le strict respect
des échéances des prêts dont la BDC bénéficiait. Ces deux conditionnalités sont remplies puisque
la Banque a reconstitué au 31/12/2002, une trésorerie de 1,072 Milliards de FC et poursuivi sa



                                                  - 35 -

politique de désendettement jusqu'à régler à la même date la somme de 883,9 Millions de FC.

L'autre conditionnalité est l'ouverture du capital à un opérateur stratégique qui aura la capacité
de développer la BDC et capable d'apporter son know-how et des nouveaux produits. Le
redéploiement de la BDC paraît un facteur important pour favoriser le développement des
Comores en offrant des nouveaux produits à des taux adaptés.

La nouvelle configuration actuelle préfigure de l'existence d'une demande solvable de crédits
d'une part, et de la capacité de la nouvelle structure d'opérer d'une façon rentable, d'autre part.
Avant l'arrêt des activités de crédits, la pipeline de projets a été évalué à 3 Milliards de FC. Il est
bien entendu que certains de ses projets sont, soient abandonnés, soit financés par d'autres formes
de crédits, mais il reste que les besoins existent.

Pour ce faire, il est fondamental que les bailleurs de fonds, actionnaires de la BDC, pour certains,
soient impliqués dans ce processus de redéploiement de cette nouvelle structure afin de garantir
l'existence de lignes de crédits et donc de fixer les règles de leurs utilisations ; affectation des
secteurs prioritaires, règles d'exclusion suivi, etc.

L'évolution institutionnelle des Comores poursuit sa marche vers l'avant, même si on déplore
par-ci, par-là quelques blocages. Nous pensons que devant l'ampleur des besoins en matière
d'investissement et l'absence d'une institution de financement du développement, ces incertitudes
ne doivent pas constituer un frein à la marche du développement du pays. C'est pour cette raison
que la mise en place d'une ligne de crédit, pour financer la petite et moyenne entreprise voire la
micro entreprise à travers des structures comme AMIE pourrait aider à la relance de l'économie.
De même qu'il serait souhaitable que dans le cadre d'une ligne de crédit, on puisse prévoir une
proportion significative de crédit qui serait destinée au financement de l'habitat social dans le sens
d'améliorer, les conditions d'habitation des populations.




                                                 - 36 -

- 37 -

