CREDIT NUMBER 2632 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Small Enterprise Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    Oelosa       -n9-, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2632 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     aero ZOeRL    q-L       , 1994, between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL   REPUBLIC OF   THE COMOROS   (the  Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has issued a sectoral policy
statement, dated May 30, 1994, describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the
Borrower's small-scale enterprise sub-sector (hereinafter referred
to as "the Program");
(B)   the Borrower has declared its commitment       to the
execution of the Program and, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   Part  A  of  the Project will be carried       out  by
Participating Financial Intermediaries (as hereinafter defined) and,
to this end, the Borrower intends to reach agreement with one or
more such eligible Financial Intermediaries; and
(D)   Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project will be carried out by
the Centre d'Appui au Secteur Priv6 (CASP), with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to CASP a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement?
WHEREAS the Association h-as agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BDC" means Bangue de Developpement des Comores;
(b)   "BIC" means Bangue pour l'Industrie  et le Commerce;
(c)   "CASP Grant Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and CASP, referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CASP
Grant Agreement;
(d)   "Commission" means the Law Reform Commission referred to
in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)   "eligible Financial Intermediary" means a Financial
Intermediary which has been declared to be eligible to participate
in the execution of Part A of the Project on the ground that it
satisfies the relevant eligibility criteria for purposes of the
Project;
(f)   "Law  Reform   Coordinator"  means   the  Law   Reform
Coordinator referred to in paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(g)   "MFB" means the Ministere des Finances et du §Rdget of
the Borrower;
(h)   "MJ" means the Minist4re de la Justice of the Borrower;
(i)   "Participating Agreement" has the same meaning as in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)   "Participating Financial Intermediary" or "PFI" has the
same meaning as in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(k)   "Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual referred
to in paragraph 13 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Procedures Manual;


﻿- 3 -
(1)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph 15 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter of agreement, dated December 9, 1993, signed
jointly by the Borrower and the Association;
(n)   "Special Account" means any or all of the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o)   "sub-loan" means a loan made pursuant to a Participating
Agreement to finance a sub-project; and
(p)   "sub-project". means  any  productive  or   extractive
activity, or transport, trade or other service, including their
permanent working capital except for trade, and housing con-
struction, undertaken in connection with a new operation, or an
extension or rehabilitation of an existing operation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain special deposit
accounts as follows:
(i)    one special deposit account in French Francs in
the name of each of the PFIs (hereinafter
referred to as PFI Special Account) for purposes
of Part A of the Project;


﻿-4-
(ii)    another special deposit account in Comorian
Francs in the name of MJ (hereinafter referred
to as MJ Special Account) for purposes of Part B
of the Project; and
(iii)    another special deposit account in Comorian
Francs in the name of MFB (hereinafter referred
to as MFB Special Account) for purposes of Parts
C and D of the Project.
Special accounts shall be held and maintained in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2004 and ending March 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-6-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out Part B, and Parts C and D.3, of
the Project through MJ and MB, respectively,
and  cause   PFIs  and   CASP  to  carry   out,
respectively, Part A, and Parts D.1 and D.2, of
the Project;
(ii)    shall ensure that the Project is carried out
with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity    with    appropriate    technical,
administrative and financial practices;
(iii)    shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources
required for Parts B, C and D.3 of the Project;
and
(iv)    shall take or cause to be taken all actions,
including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PFIs and CASP to carry out
their respective parts of the Project, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out
of the Project by PFIs and CASP.


﻿-7-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and
D.3 of the Project, and cause PFIs and CASP to carry out,
respectively, Part A, and Parts D.1 and D.2, of the Project, all in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
A, and Parts D.1 and D.2, of the Project shall be carried out by
PFIs and CASP, respectively.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall conclude one or more agreements (hereinafter referred
to as Participating Agreements) with BIC, BDC and any other eligible
Participating   Financial   Intermediary   (hereinafter   referred
collectively to as PFIs), whereby it shall agree to on-lend to each
such PFI an amount not exceeding the amount of the Credit allocated
to Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions
as shall be acceptable to the Association, including the on-lending
terms set forth below:
(i)    an adjustable rate of interest, with an initial
annual interest rate of 6.5 percent, which shall
be reviewed from time to time to take into
account the impact of inflation and other
relevant factors on the cost of funds;
(ii)    a repayment period corresponding to the sum
total of repayment schedules applicable to
individual sub-loans, which shall not in any
case exceed fifteen years, including a grace
period of five years; and


﻿-8-
(iii)    a requirement that the Borrower shall bear the
foreign exchange risk of the transaction, with
the credit risk being borne by the PFI.
(b)   For purposes of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall conclude a grant agreement with CASP (hereinafter
referred to as the CASP Grant Agreement), whereby it shall agree to
transfer an amount not exceeding the amount of the Credit allocated
to Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project to CASP on a non-reimbursable
basis, on the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be
acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any
Participating Agreement and the CASP Grant Agreement, in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Participating Agreement or the CASP
Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of Parts B, C and D.3 of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by


﻿said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other    documents)   evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's   representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause PFIs and CASP to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices:
(i)    in  the  case of PFIs, (A) the      operations,
resources and expenditures of such PFIs, in
respect of Part A of the Project, and (B) and
the operations and financial condition of such
PFIs; and
(ii)    in the case of CASP, the operations, resources
and expenditures of CASP, in respect of Parts
D.1 and D.2 of the Project.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section the
Borrower shall cause PFIs and CASP to:
(i)    have their respective records, accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of their respective financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, in the case of
CASP, a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether, and to what extent, the procedures and
criteria set forth in the Procedures Manual have
been effectively complied with; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such   other
information concerning such records, accounts,
financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for Part A, and Parts D.1 and D.2, of the
Project, respectively, were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause PFIs and CASP to:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of a
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause PFIs and CASP:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on their respective operations and conduct
their respective affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and technical practices, under the supervision of


﻿- 12 -
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain their respective
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
technical practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b)   a PFI or CASP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under a Participating Agreement or the CASP Grant
Agreement, respectively;
(c)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under a Participating Agreement or the CASP Grant
Agreement;
(d)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, a situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that a PFI or CASP will be able to
perform any of its obligations under a Participating Agreement or
the CASP Grant Agreement, respectively;
(e)   the statutes of a PFI or CASP shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the PFI or CASP to perform any of its
obligations under a Participating Agreement or the CASP Grant
Agreement, respectively; and
(f)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a PFI or CASP, or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (a), (d), (e) or (f) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the CASP Grant Agreement and at least one Participating
Agreement have been duly executed;
(b)   the Procedures Manual has been adopted by CASP, and
approved by the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)   the Borrower has appointed the Legal Reform Coordinator,
and established the Commission.
Section 7.02. The following matters are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that any Participating Agreement executed pursuant to
paragraph (a) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the PFI, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the PFI in accordance with its terms;
and
(b)   that the CASP Grant Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and CASP, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and CASP in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 14 -
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
IV and V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministire des Finances et du Budget
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comoros
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Paris, France, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /& /                           t C&
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
6       u Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 2.02 (a))
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Under Part A of
the Project:
(1) Goods, works              1,800,000         100%
and services
Under Part B of
the Project:
(2) Consultants' services       320,000         100%
and training
(3) Equipment, supplies          180,000        100% of foreign
and vehicles                                expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4) Library books                 40,000        100% of foreign
and materials                               expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Under Part C of
the Project:
(5) Consultants' ser-           120,000        100%
vices and training
(6) Office equipment,            40,000        100% of foreign
supplies and                               expenditures and
vehicles                                   90% of local
expenditures
Under Part D of
the Project:
(7) Consultants' services                      100%
and training:
(a) under Parts D.1         540,000
and D.2 of the
Project
(b) other                    70,000
General:
(8) Audits:
(a) audit of PFIs            50,000        50%
(b) other                    90,000        100%
(9) Operating costs             100,000        90%


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(10) Refunding of                  220,000      Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(11) Unallocated                   130,000
TOTAL                    3,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(c)   the term   "operating costs" means the     incremental
operating costs incurred by the Borrower under Parts B and C of the
Project on account of local contractual staff salaries and
allowances, maintenance of vehicles and fuel, and office rent and
utilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;


﻿- 19 -
(b)   expenditures under Category    (1) of   the  table in
paragraph I of this Schedule, in respect of any PFI, unless:
(i)    a Participating Agreement has been concluded to
that effect between the Borrower and the PFI,
and
(ii)    a conformed copy thereof has been transmitted to
the Association, together with a legal opinion,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to establish that such
Participating Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the PFI, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the PFI in
accordance with its terms;
(c)   expenditures under Category    (4) of   the table in
paragraph I of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has:
(i)    submitted to the Association, for approval, a
proposed list of library books and materials
required under the Project, and
(ii)    satisfied   the   Association   that   it   has
established adequate rules to control access to
the law library facilities, and taken all other
necessary measures, including the recruitment of
a full-time law librarian, to ensure the safe-
keeping of such books and other materials; or
(d)   expenditures under Category (7) (b) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless a training program under Part
D.3 of the Project has been submitted to, and approved by, the
Association.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, and
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower, for the following categories of
expenditures:
(a)   under Part A    of the Project, expenditures under
contracts for goods and works, not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,


﻿- 20 -
(b)   under Parts B, C and D of the Project, expenditures
under contracts for goods, not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, and
(c)   expenditures under training programs and operating
costs.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
(Preamble, para. (B))
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's
efforts to establish an enabling business environment, by providing
a nascent private sector with the means and incentives to engage in
productive investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower a.nd the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Line of Credit
Utilization of a line of credit to make sub-loans to eligible
beneficiaries to finance financially viable and environmentally
sound private investments in productive and service sectors in
connection with new operations, or extensions or rehabilitation, of
existing operations.
Part B:     Legal and Judicial Reforms
1.    Compilation, consolidation   and  publication  of  existing
commercial and business laws.
2.    Rehabilitation of the process of publication of the Official
Journal.
3.    Review of existing commercial and business legislation, with
particular emphasis on the Investment Code, property laws, the
Commercial Code, Company Law and the Labor Code;
4.    Measures to streamline the litigation process in the lower
courts, and enhance the capacity of such courts to dispose of
commercial law cases, including the establishment of a commercial
court jurisdiction, the appointment of conciliation judges, the
introduction of a reporting mechanism for magistrates, and a review
of the work environment of magistrates and the adequacy of court
procedures.


﻿- 22 -
5.    Implementation of a training program and other accompanying
measures to improve the process of recruitment and the level of
training of magistrates and other paralegal staff; and
6.    Measures to strengthen the effectiveness of MJ and, in
particular, its units responsible for legislative drafting and legal
information services, respectively.
Part C:     Institutional and Capacity Building
1.    Commissioning of a series of studies designed to formulate a
medium-term tax reform and investment incentives enhancement plan,
with emphasis on eliminating distortions and stimulating invest-
ments; and, based upon the findings and recommendations of such
studies, development of an action plan to implement the recom-
mendations thereof.
2.    Completion of studies on an adequate incentives' program, and
an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, for the export and
tourism sector; and, based upon the findings thereof, development
and preparation of a comprehensive program for the development of
the sector.
3.    Commissioning of a series of studies on the public enterprise
sector, with a view to the establishment of an adequate legal
framework for the public enterprise sector, and the continued
implementation of the process of privatization and public enterprise
reform; and, based upon the findings and recommendations of such
studies, development of an action plan to implement the
recommendations thereof.
Part D:     Enterprise Development Fund
1.    Provision of short-term specialized interventions by experts
for the benefit of groups of about ten entrepreneurs facing the same
or broadly similar issues.
2.    Provision of expert assistance by an engineer and a financial
analyst for the benefit of private small-scale enterprises.
3.    Training in medium- and long-term lending for the benefit of
banks, with special emphasis on the needs of small-scale enter-
prises, risk evaluation and environmental impact assessment, thus


﻿- 23 -
strengthening local capacity for the execution of the line of
credit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
(Section 3.02)
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    (a)   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(b)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation      to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when the contract is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(c)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with       ich modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
3.    Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in
paragraph 1 (a) above shall be exempted from preshipment price
inspection by third parties.


﻿- 25 -
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works under Part A of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works under
Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more, and each contract for goods under Parts B, C and D of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 26 -
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $15,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 3.01 (b))
Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.    Pursuant to a Participating Agreement, the PFI shall undertake
that it shall:
(a)   appraise and approve subproject proposals under the
Project, and thereafter supervise such subprojects, in accordance
with administrative, financial and disbursement procedures, and
environmental guidelines, which shall be acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association;
(b)   keep the Borrower and the Association regularly informed
of the status and progress of subprojects, and promptly inform them
of any condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere with,
the successful execution of such subprojects;
(c)   submit for approval by the Borrower and the Association
the first subproject proposal involving a subloan in excess of
$100,000, as well as the first two other subproject proposals
arising thereunder;
(d)   ensure that the resources available thereunder shall be
used exclusively for the purposes for which they were intended;
(e)   ensure that goods and services required under the
Participating Agreement, or pursuant thereto, shall be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, and set
forth in this Agreement;
(f)   maintain  a   satisfactory  capital  adequacy   ratio,
determined in accordance with generally accepted financial
principles;
(g)   have its records and accounts audited, and certified
copies of such audit reports transmitted to the Borrower and the
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of this
Agreement;


﻿- 28 -
(h)   carry out all other Project-related obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement, or arising thereunder, in respect of
Part A of the Project; and
(i)   in the case of BDC, implement a business plan acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association, and including measures designed
to: (i) put in place an adequate process for the assessment of
subprojects and risk evaluation, (ii) review interest rate policy,
within the maximum limits of the prevailing rate structure, and
(iii) reduce operational costs with respect to turnover and
intensify supervision to increase the recovery rate.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that any amount on-lent to a PFI
under a Participating Agreement shall be used exclusively by the PFI
to make subloans to eligible beneficiaries to finance subprojects,
at an interest rate which shall at all times be positive in real
terms, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
3.    (a)   No subproject shall be considered for financing under
the Project, unless:
(i)    all  eligibility,   and   other  criteria   and
conditions, agreed upon with the Borrower and
* - ~the Association, have been complied with,
including the following:
(A)   except  in   the   case  of   a   housing
construction subproject, a minimum rate of
return of not less than 10 percent in
constant prices;
(B)   a projected debt service capacity of not
less than 1:1.5 over the life of the
subproject, and a long-term debt to equity
ratio of not more than 2.33:1; and
(C)   except with the prior approval of the
Association, in the case of a housing
construction subproject, a proposed living
area not exceeding 130 square meters; and
(ii)    in cases where the technical review of the
subproject proposal has indicated the likelihood


﻿- 29 -
of environmental hazards, an adequate environ-
mental impact assessment has been undertaken,
and necessary measures incorporated to mitigate
the environmental impact.
(b)   In this paragraph:
(i)    "projected debt service capacity" means the
ratio of interest and principal annual payments
to cash-flow generated from operations; and
(ii)    "debt to equity ratio" means the debt to equity
ratio calculated on the basis of the total long-
term debts, inclusive of those incurred, or to
be incurred, under the subproject.
4.    (a)   Except with the prior approval of the Association,
(i)    no subloan shall exceed:
(A)   the equivalent of $200,000, or
(B)   in the case of a housing construction
subproject, the equivalent of $9,000;
(ii)    no PFI shall allocate more than 20 percent of
total   commitments   under   a   Participating
Agreement for purposes of housing construction.
(b)   The provisions of subparagraph     (a)  (ii) of this
paragraph shall not apply in relation to any PFI, unless the PFI has
committed an amount of $50,000 equivalent for purposes of housing
construction under a Participating Agreement.
5.    In respect of every subproject to be financed under a
Participating Agreement, or pursuant thereto, the contribution of
the beneficiary thereof to the cost of the subproject shall be:
(a)   in the case of new subprojects, not less than 30
percent, and
(b)   in all other cases, not less than 20 percent.


﻿- 30 -
Part B of the Project
6.    (a)   The Borrower shall establish a Law Reform Commission,
consisting of business and business law experts, including lawyers,
magistrates, bankers and other representatives of both the private
and the public sectors, to be responsible for the supervision of the
process of revision of business laws.
(b)   Prior to the commencement of the Project and, there-
after, prior to the beginning of each following fiscal year, the
Commission shall prepare, and submit to the Association, an
indicative business plan, acceptable to the Association, including
proposed targets and objectives for the rest of the implementation
period of the Project, and a detailed work program for the
forthcoming fiscal year.
7.    (a)   The Borrower shall appoint: (i) a lawyer, whose
qualifications  and   experience  shall  be  acceptable  to   the
Association, to be the Legal Reform Coordinator and, as such, to be
responsible for the coordination of the implementation of Part B of
the Project; and    (ii) a   steering committee, consisting    of
representatives of magistrates, judges and the unit responsible for
the Official Journal, to assist the Legal Reform Coordinator in the
implementation of Part B of the Project.
(b)   The Legal Reform    Coordinator  shall prepare, for
submission to the Association: (i) quarterly reports on the progress
of Part B of the Project; and (ii) prior to the commencement of the
Project and, thereafter, prior to the beginning of each following
fiscal year, a proposed business plan for Part B of the Project for
the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed targets and
objectives for that fiscal year, and the means and strategies needed
to achieve such targets and objectives.
8.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994, issue an
administrative circular, setting forth detailed instructions
governing the process of preparation of draft legislation, and the
printing, distribution and sale of the Official Journal.
9.    The Borrower shall take necessary steps to implement the
following measures, not later than June 30, 1995, in the case of
Moroni, and not later than December 31, 1996, in the case of
Anjouan:


﻿- 31 -
(a)   establishment  of  a   specialized  commercial   court
jurisdiction within the First Instance Tribunal;
(b)   institutionalization of conciliation proceedings within
the First Instance Tribunal, and appointment of a conciliation
judge; and
(c)   establishment of a reporting mechanism, requiring
magistrates of the First Instance Tribunals to submit monthly
statistics, giving details of the number of cases entered and
disposed of during the month, the number of cases which have
remained pending for an inordinate length of time, or have been
unduly delayed or repeatedly postponed, together with the reasons
which account for such delays or postponements.
10.   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1994:
(a)   prepare a training program for training in commercial
and business laws and procedures for the benefit of magistrates,
lawyers and other paralegal staff; and
(b)   submit to the Association the findings and recom-
mendations of the working party of magistrates on proposed measures
affecting work environment and prerogatives of magistrates and,
subject to approval thereof by the Borrower and the Association,
proceed to implement such recommendations.
11.   The Borrower shall make adequate annual budgetary allocations
to provide for the additional budgetary positions required in the
Judiciary, and, with effect from December 31, 1995, to ensure the
regular publication of the Official Journal.
12.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995, conduct
a review of the content and duration of post-degree professional
training for magistrates, with a view to facilitating access to the
profession.
Part D of the Project
13.   Further to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, the amount
transferred to CASP pursuant to the CASP Grant Agreement shall be
subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
(a)   the amount so transferred to CASP shall be used
exclusively to finance activities provided for under Parts D.1 and


﻿- 32 -
D.2 of the Project, and, except with the approval of the Borrower
and the Association, for the sole benefit of enterprises employing
less than 50 permanent employees, and in which the majority of the
share capital is owned by nationals;
(b)   no activity shall be considered for financing under the
Project except in accordance with criteria, and terms and
conditions, set forth in a Procedures Manual;
(c)   except with the approval of the Borrower and the
Association, no amendment shall be made to the Procedures Manual;
(d)   services required under the CASP Grant Agreement, or
pursuant thereto, shall be procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association, and set forth in the Procedures
Manual;
(e)   no activity shall be financed under the CASP Grant
Agreement, unless an agreement has been concluded between the
beneficiary thereof and CASP, giving full details of the content and
scope of the proposed activity, the respective obligations of CASP
and the intended beneficiary thereunder, and the agreed upon cost
sharing arrangements, including the schedule of payments;
(f)   in respect of every activity to be financed under the
CASP Grant Agreement, or pursuant thereto, the contribution of the
beneficiary thereof to the cost of the activity shall be: (i) in the
case of an activity under Part D.1 of the Project, not less than 30
percent of the cost of the activity, and (ii) in the case of an
activity under Part D.2 of the Project, not less than the equivalent
of $25 per consultant per day: and
(g)   CASP undertakes to carry out all other Project-related
obligations of the Borrower and CASP under this Agreement, or
arising thereunder, in respect of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project.
Miscellaneous
14.   (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
November 30, 1996, undertake, in conjunction with PFIs and CASP, a
joint midterm review of the Project, during which they shall
exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of
the Project and the performance by the Borrower, PFIs and CASP of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the Participating


﻿- 33 -
Agreements and the CASP Grant Agreement; including, but not limited
to, the following:
(i)    the progress achieved by MJ, MFB, PFIs and CASP,
respectively, during the current fiscal year,
having regard to the performance indicators
agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(ii)    the  status   of  financial   and  procurement
performance under the Project; and
(iii)    the proposed budget and work program for the
forthcoming fiscal year, including training
proposals and proposed procurement procedures,
for the Project for the forthcoming fiscal year.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to the midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at the said
review.
(c)   Following the midterm review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take, or cause PFIs or
CASP, as the case may be, to take, any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of
the Project, or to implement, or cause PFIs or CASP, as the case may
be, to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed upon
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
15.   (a)   The Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, an account in
local currency (hereinafter referred to as the Project Account), to
be operated and maintained by NFB, and into which it shall deposit
from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    not later than January 31, 1995, make an initial
deposit of the equivalent of $20,000 into the
Project Account; and


﻿- 34 -
(ii)   have the Project Account replenished on a annual
basis, or whenever the balance thereof equals
not more than one half of the amount of the
initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
16.   (a)   The Borrower shall appoint an economist or financial
expert, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to
the Association, to be Project Coordinator and, as such, to be
responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1995,
appoint an accountant, whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Association, to be Project accountant.
(c)   The Project Coordinator shall: (i) consolidate all
accounts and information pertaining to the Project, and (ii) as the
case may be, prepare and transmit, or cause to be prepared and
transmitted, to the Association the following reports on the
progress of the Project:
(A)    in the case of Parts B, C and D.3 of the
Project, quarterly progress reports; and
(B)    in the case of Parts A, D.1 and D.2 of the
Project, six-monthly progress reports.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
(Section 2.02 (b))
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
(i)    in  the case of each    PFI Special Account,
Categories (1) and (8) (a) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(ii)    in  the  case  of  the   MJ  Special Account,
Categories (2), (3), (4) and (9) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(iii)    in  the  case  of  the MFB   Special Account,
Categories (5), (6), (7), (8) (b) and (9) set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount as
indicated below to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule:
(i)    in the case of each PFI Special Account, an
amount equivalent to $200,000;
(ii)    in the case of the MJ Special Account, an amount
equivalent to $50,000; and
(iii)    in the case of the MFB Special Account, an
amount equivalent to $70,000.


﻿- 36 -
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and


﻿- 37 -
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
thkt all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be


﻿- 38 -
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
9O YJJRY
FOR SECRETARY


