Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3234-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NATIONAL FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
March 10, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmce Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank s_toriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp I million  =  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS - National Planning Agency
dwt      - deadweight tons
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
GOI      - Government of Indonesia
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
MOC      - Ministry of Communications
PJKA     - Perusahan Jawatan Kereta Api, the state railway corporation
PUSRI    - P.T. Pupuk SriwidjaJa Indonesia, the state fertilizer
corporation
REPELITA - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
tsp      - triple superphosphate
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:  P.T. Pupuk Srwidjaja Indonesia (PUSRI) and Perusahaan
Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA).
Amount:          $66.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum
Onlending
Terms:         Part of the proceeds of loan will be onlent to PUSRI at an
interest rate of 13.5% for 10 years, including 3 years of
grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The proposed project will increase agricultural production
in Indonesia by substantially expanding the capacity to
distribute fertilizer to farmers. The project would include
procurement of (a) urea handling f-acilities at three ports,
including bulk reception and bagging stations and two special
urea unloading piers; (b) 200 railway wagons of 30-ton
capacity for use in fertilizer block trains; (c) three
self-unloading bulk urea ships and one refrigerated ammonia
ship for interisland transport of fertilizer; (d) minor
improvements to existing urea bulk carriers; and (e) a rail
line from the existing PJKA line to the port of Meneng.
Consultant services would be provided for design and
construction supervision of the ships and the bulk reception
and bagging stations and for studies of future fertilizer
demand and of the use of block trains. Funds are also
provided for continued preparation of a future maritime
transport project, including master plans and detailed
engineering for several ports. There are no unusual technical
or other risks associated with the project, but timely
implementation will be necessary to ensure efficient use of
all investments.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
- -- ($ million) --
Part A: Fertilizer Distribution
Urea handling facilities                               7.5    11.3    18.8
Railway wagons, including spares                      -       15.1    15.1
Ships and equipment
Urea bulk carriers (3)                            -       43.9    43.9
Ammonia ship                                      -       23.0    23.0
Improvements to existing ships and spares         -        4.0      4.0
Railway line extension, including right
of way                                             17.2    11.6    28.8
Consultant services
Design and construction supervision
for ships and urea handling
facilities                                       2.1      2.6      4.7
Design and construction supervision
for railway line extension                       1.5      2.0      3.5
Fertilizer study update                           0.2      0.2      0.4
Study of block trains in Java                     0.2      0.2      0.4
Base cost of Part A                                  28.7   113.9   142.6
Physical contingencies                              5.2      4.8    10.0
Price contingencies                                 7.8      7.4    15.2
Total cost of Part A                                 41.7   126.1   167.8
Part B: Maritime Project Preparation
Consultant services
Master plans and detailed engineering
for ten secondary ports                         3.7      5.6      9.3
Detailed engineering for Tanjung
Priok Port                                      0.8      4.4      5.2
Base Cost 6f Part B                                    4.5     9.9    14.4
Contingencies                                      1.0      2.1      3.1
Total cost of Part B                                   5.5    12.0    17.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                          47.1   138.2   185.3



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                             Local  Foreign  Total
…----($ million)-----
Bank                                      -      66.0    66.0
Government                              47.1    17.4    64.5
Export credits                            -      54.8    54.8
Total                              47.1   138.2   185.3
Estimated                   Bank FY   1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Disbursements:                                 ---------($ million)--------
Annual          0.9    14.6    25.9    20.7        3.9
Cumulative      0.9    15.5    41.4    62.1    66.0
Rate of Return:         21%
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 3609-IND, dated March 10, 1982.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NATIONAL FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $66 million to help finance
a National Fertilizer Distribution Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
Proceeds of the loan to be onlent to PUSRI will be onlent at an interest rate
equal to 13.5% for 10 years including 3 years of grace. The foreign exchange
risk will be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of the
population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be $430./3
4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base, with
plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber
potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production and
export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector. Net oil exports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Teacher Training Project (No. P-3214-IND), circulated under cover of
R82-38, dated February 25, 1982, and to be considered by the Executive
Directors on March 16,1982.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
7T Estimate for 1980.



for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As a
consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to terms
of trade developments.  Following the second oil price hike a resource deficit
turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and the current
account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades. In 1981/82
declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other commodities and
the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal of this position,
with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The effects of these
dramatic changes are still working their way through the system. However, the
infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has certainly contributed to a
highly favorable growth performance, despite weak production linkages between
the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A sustained growth rate of
almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher than that of any other
low-income country. While oil has played an important part, it should be
stressed that the initial impetus to this growth occurred in the period of
recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then maintain macro-
economic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incentives for
investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure,
and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout the period growth
has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per
annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing and construction.
However, despite this favorable growth performance, the economy is still
underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a
persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3% pea. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because



the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby encour-
aging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importancr for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains inadequate, and only 12% of the population has access to safe
water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a view
to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in.rates of effective
protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil exports, including
financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export processing



- 4 -
zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the
private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to private
investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major
distortion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May
1980 and demonstrated the GOI-s commitment to tackle this politically
difficult issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the
opportunity cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge
widely from those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production and
employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate seeds
and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of
distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign
exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the



interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in
revenues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource mobiliza-
tion at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements. The
two major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil prices
to reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The
1982/83 budget represents a significant effort in these directions. First,
the budgetary subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual
level of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil
tax revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with
the major emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.        Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. However
during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation in
its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that
Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the
efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far
the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on
commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international
markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent,
and that there will be a continued justification for official debt of long
maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that
Indonesia's financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio
remaining below 20% throughout the decade.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank-s program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Teacher
Training Project (No. P-3214-IND) circulated under cover of R82-38,
dated February 25, 1982, to be considered by the Executive Directors on
March 16, 1982.



18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement
seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting have been identified as one of the major causes of
implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is important that the Bank
and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



- 8-
21.       The proposed project constitutes the tenth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport, and Rural Roads Development projects, have already been approved by
the Executive Directors and Board documents for the proposed Second Textbook,
Second Teacher Training, Sixteenth Irrigation and Seventeenth Irrigation
projects are being circulated to the Executive Directors. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Transmigration,
Coal Exploration Engineering and Sixth Nucleus Estates and Smallholder
projects.
PART III. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Transport Sector
22.       General.  Given the size of the Indonesian archipelago, the
development of an extensive and efficient transportation system is especially
important to the growth of the economy. The rapid growth of the national
economy over the past decade has placed a heavy burden on the transport
sector. Total transport demand is estimated to have grown about 12% per annum
during the 1970s. It is estimated that for each 1% increase in national GDP
transport demand increases by about 1.7%. Thus, there is a pressing need to
improve the productivity of the existing transport system and to invest
efficiently in the expansion of that system.
23.       During Repelita I, about 15% of the GOI budget was allocated to the
transport sector. During Repelita II, about 16% was allocated to transport,
and GOI expenditures for development of this sector increased significantly
following the growth of revenues after the 1973 oil price increase.
Throughout the first two Plan periods, emphasis was placed on rehabilitation
of the existing transportation infrastructure rather than new construction
and more than half of GOI expenditure on transport was allocated to road
development. Repelita III originally allocated about 14% (Rp. 2,998 billion)
of the total Plan budget to the transport sector but total resources available
for investment in this and other sectors have increased sharply since 1979
with increased oil prices. The development budget for the transport sector
during Repelita III is divided among the modes approximately as follows: 57%
for road infrastructure and the road transport industry; 8% for railways; 18%
for sea transport infrastructure and the domestic shipping industry; 15% for
air transport; and 2% for inland water transport.
24.       GOI Responsibilities.  GOI guides the development of the transport
sector through its investments in infrastructure, its policies on pricing,
subsidies, and taxation, its regulation of private firms, and its ownership of
the railway and domestic ship, airline, and bus companies. The three GOI
agencies most responsible for the development of the sector are the Ministry
of Communications (MOC), which plans, regulates, and controls all aspects of



the sector except physical development of roads, the Ministry of Public Works
which is responsible for the planning, construction, and maintenance of the
road subsector, and the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), which reviews
sector development plans and prepares jointly with the Ministry of Finance
the development budget. Given the project investments proposed in railways
and shipping, these subsectors are briefly reviewed below.
25.       Railways.  Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA), the state railway,
is a government agency under MOC. Its system is confined to two islands with
about 4,700 km of track on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatra. The railways
suffered from the decline in exports in the 1950s and 1960s and were allowed
to deteriorate. After limited rehabilitation took place under Repelita I,
freight traffic ranged up to 1,100 million tons per annum in the 1970s.
Passenger traffic rose only slightly after rehabilitation but has since 1976
grown more rapidly, reaching about 5,600 million passenger-km in 1979. PJKA-s
financial performance has been disappointing, reflecting a number of factors,
including delays in rehabilitation of its assets and in improving its
operations, excessive numbers of personnel, and weaknesses in the competitive
position of some services, particularly on Java. GOI has also failed to
increase tariffs sufficiently to offset increases in operating expenses and
as a result PJKA has had large operating deficits. A comprehensive program
of modernization and rehabilitation formed the basis of the Bank's Railway
Project (Loan 1005-IND) but its objectives were only partially attained and
PJKA's financial performance remains poor. However, the Project Performance
Audit Report dated January 30, 1980 did show a satisfactory economic rate
of return and some operational and institutional improvements. PJKA's
development plan for the 1979-88 period emphasizes the marketing of rail
services based on realistic traffic projections, improved maintenance of
permanent way and rolling stock, and operation of larger and more reliable
trains.
26.       Maritime Transport.  As an archipelago, Indonesia relies heavily on
interisland shipping. While about two thirds of the deadweight tonnage of
the domestic shipping fleet is used in petroleum trade, another quarter is
used by companies in the Regular Liner Services that carry about half of
the seaborne interisland cargo movements. The Bank has already assisted two
projects in this subsector (the First and Second Shipping projects, Credit
318-IND and Loan 1250-IND). Rehabilitation of part of Regular Liner Services
was carried out under the first project and the provision of additional
and some replacement vessels is underway in the second. The Project
Completion Report for the First Shipping project, issued on April 30, 1981,
indicated that that project failed to meet all its objectives because the
cost of rehabilitation of individual ships was underestimated at appraisal,
but the project had a satisfactory economic rate of return and assisted the
borrower in organizing ship procurement for interisland shipping. The
Directorate General of Sea Communications within MOC is responsible for



- 10 -
maritime operations within Indonesia. Given the importance of sea trans-
port GOI is developing a large program of marine development including ship
procurement and rehabilitation, manpower training and port development. This
later concern will be a focus of Part B of the project (see para. 36 below).
The Fertilizer Industry
27.       General.  Fertilizer production in Indonesia is carried out
exclusively in the public sector. P.T. Pupuk Swidjaya Indonesia (PUSRI) the
country's first fertilizer company was established in 1959 to manufacture
urea. Since PUSRI's initial operating plans went on stream in 1964, quickly
achieving operating capacity, this company has grown rapidly, producing almost
1.5 million tons of urea in 1980. In general it is considered one of
Indonesia's best managed large industrial enterprises and has been involved in
the successful completion of four Bank projects: three production projects
and one previous distribution project./l The three production projects were
completed in a timely manner and showed adequate rates of return; Bank experi-
ence with the first distribution project is discussed in detail below (para.
32). The two newer fertilizer producers in Indonesia (P. T. Pupuk Kujan and
P.T. Petro Kimia Greskik) produced in total slightly less than PUSRI did in
1980 (about 1.2 million tons). As noted below (para. 30) a major expansion of
fertilizer production facilities is underway in Indonesia.
28.       The Role of Fertilizer in the Agricultural Sector.  Agriculture
remains the dominant sector in Indonesia, accounting for 29% of GDP, over 60%
of employment, and about 75% of nonoil export revenues in 1980, and increased
production in the sector depends significantly on increased fertilizer use.
During the period of sustained increase in agricultural output between 1970
and 1979, fertilizer consumption grew at about 15% p.a. and in 1980 fertilizer
consumption jumped by 50%. About three-fourths of fertilizer consumption is
on Java, which accounts for 57% of paddy land and 69% of secondary crop land.
Rice yields on Java are about 45% higher than on the Other Islands and
fertilizer application rates are nearly three times higher. For the two major
foodcrop fertilizers, urea and triple superphosphate (TSP), the average
combined nutrient application rate in 1970 was 20 kg/ha; by 1979 this had
reached 65 kg/ha and it is now around 94 kg/ha. This average rate, however,
covers a wide range of application rates with significant differences between
modern and traditional farmers and between different types of crops. Farmers
participating in the various GOI rice intensification programs use about ten
times more fertilizer than traditional farmers, and secondary foodcrop farmers
on Java use 5-10 times more than farmers on the Other Islands.
/1 Cr. 193-1-IND, Fertilizer Plant and Gas Conservation and Transmission
Project, $30 million, June 15, 1970; Cr. 193-2-IND, Fertilizer Supple-
mentary Project, $5 million, May 21, 1973; Loan 1089-IND, Second
Fertilizer Expansion Project, $115 million, February 20, 1974; Loan
1254-IND, Third Fertilizer Expansion Project, $70 million, May 20, 1976;
and Loan 1139-IND, Fertilizer Distribution Project, $68 million,
July 28, 1975.



- 11 -
29.       GOI intervenes in the markets for rice and other food crops through
control over imports and through domestic procurement and sales operations
with the objective of stabilizing food prices. It also controls the retail
price of fertilizer. Since 1976 the nominal floor price for rice has been
allowed to increase at a rate comparable to overall inflation, while the
retail price of urea and TSP has been held steady at Rp 70/kg- As a result
domestic prices for fertilizers are substantially below both world market
prices and domestic production costs. The total financial subsidy to urea
production and marketing is estimated to be $164 million in 1980, including
the subsidies for natural gas used in production and for general transport.
In reviewing this subsidy with GOI, it has emphasized its view that the
increasingly favorable rice price/fertilizer price ratio has been critical to
the rapid adoption of fertilizer and the impressive increases in rice
production since the mid 1970's (para. 11). While recognizing this, it is
also clear that as fertilizer use expands the impact of the subsidy on GOI
expenditures will increase correspondingly; given the emerging tight budget
situation this merits close attention. Ongoing Bank sector work on energy and
foodcrops is examining some of the critical variables involved in this issue
and it is expected that when these studies are completed the trade-offs
between increased fertilizer prices and rice production can be assessed in
detail   The results of this work will then be used as an input for GOI
decisions on fertilizer and rice pricing policies.  In addition, GOI's direct
subsidy payments for fertilizer are arranged so that incentives for efficient
production and distribution are generally maintained. The payments are made
through GOI purchase of factory output at prices providing an adequate
financial return on plant; fertilizer is then resold to PUSRI for distribution
at prices low enough to provide adequate returns to distribution activities.
30.       Total domestic demand for fertilizer is projected to increase from
about 2.6 million tons in 1980 to 4.6 million tons in 1985, reflecting an
annual rate of growth of about 7.5% on Java, over 20% on the Other Islands.
and about 12% nationwide. Most of this growth in demand will continue to be
for urea and TSP. To satisfy this increasing demand, GOI has undertaken a
substantial expansion of its domestic production capacity from a total of
2,624,000 tons in 1981 to 4,705,000 tons by the end of 1984, involving new
urea and ammonia plants in Aceh and East Kalimantan and expansion of the
amonium sulphate and TSP plant at Gresik in East Java. Since Indonesia is a
low cost producer of urea at present world prices and planned capacity exceeds
projected domestic demand, it is anticipated that about 0.7 to 1.0 million
tons of urea and liquid ammonia will be exported by 1984. The proposed
project would expand distribution capacity to match production capacity of
domestic fertilizer plants in 1984.
31.       The Existing Fertilizer Distribution System   PUSRI is now
responsible for distribution of all fertilizer in Indonesia. Of the estimated
output of over 2 million tons in 1981, over two-thirds is transported in
ships, including four special self-unloading ships to bagging stations in six
ports. From there it is forwarded by road and railway to inland storage
depots (TSP and some urea is sent in bags by small ships direct to ports).
From the inland storage depots fertilizer is sold through private retailers



- 12 -
and cooperatives to the farmers. During preparation and appraisal of the
proposed project, special attention was given to the low level distribution
system including inland storage depots, private retailers and cooperatives.
The conclusion was that, while the system in Java, where 85% of fertilizer
consumption takes place, was generally working well, bottlenecks would
possibly occur in distribution outside Java. Under the proposed project, to
improve its lower level marketing operations outside Java, PUSRI shall appoint
a sufficient number of marketing intelligence officers to its regional
marketing offices; in addition PUSRI shall take all steps necessary to resolve
bottlenecks in fertilizer distribution which are discovered at the farm level
or brought to PUSRI's attention by the market intelligence officers (Section
3.07 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, PUSRI will review with the
Bank the findings of the distribution facilities study to be financed under
the project and institute any necessary corrective actions by June 1983
(Section 3.08 of the draft Project Agreement). Finally, GOI and PUSRI have
agreed to study a number of issues related to peak storage capacity.
32.       Bank Experience in Fertilizer Distribution.  The Bank's first
Fertilizer Distribution project (Loan 1139-IND) provided the specialized
equipment needed for the then existing small-scale fertilizer distribution
system to absorb output increasing from about 366,000 tons in 1976 to about
1,300,000 tons in 1980. Much of this increased output was urea financed by
the three previous credits and loans involving fertilizer production. The
Project Completion Report (June 15, 1981) concludes that the project was
successful and essential to moving the increased output of fertilizer to the
farmers and was efficiently completed, with substantial cost savings being
used for procuring additional distribution assets needed in the face of
continued expansion of output. However, PJKA had difficulty in developing
efficient block train operations for bulk products, PUSRI experienced
difficulties in attaining efficient use of its ships and certain ineffi-
ciencies in the management of distribution activities related to retail sales
planning and accounting were identified. Steps are presently being taken to
address these issues or will be initiated under this proposed project.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was identified in discussions between GOI and
the Bank in 1980 and prepared by PUSRI and GOI with the assistance of consul-
tants. The project was appraised in April/May 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 3609-IND) is being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 1 1982 to February 8 and the GOI delegation was led
by Dr. Saleh Afiff, Deputy for Economic Affairs, BAPPENAS. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The project consists of two parts.  The major component of the
project (Part A) relates to fertilizer distribution; funds are also included



- 13 -
for a major preparation effort for maritime transport (Part B). The immediate
need for Part A of the project arises from the fact that the fertilizer plants
now under construction will produce an additional 1.9 million tons of fertili-
zer by the end of 1984. This output must be transported to farmers to meet
the forecast demand, requiring a large expansion to the existing distribution
system. The project is closely related to other GOI measures to expand
fertilizer distribution to and utilization by farmers. The overall GOI
program includes: (a) actions to support the proper management and operation
of a nationwide system of farmer cooperatives, which handle a substantial part
of retail fertilizer sales; (b) maintaining a favorable ratio of rice to
fertilizer prices; (c) finance and construction supervision of a large number
of village kiosks of standard design to be used by cooperatives for storage of
fertilizer; and (d) continued support and finance of fertilizer output and
distribution facilities in the country.
35.       Part A of the project, consists of: (a) construction of a bulk
reception and bagging station at Meneng, East Java, with 25,000 tons of bulk
and 35,000 tons of bagged urea storage capable of bagging up to 1,000,000 tons
per year of fertilizer; (b) improvement of urea bagging and handling equipment
at an existing bagging station at Belawan, North Sumatera; (c) design and
construction of two special urea unloading piers at the ports of Meneng, East
Java, and at Cilacap, Central Java, where a bulk reception and bagging station
exists; (d) procurement of 200 special railway wagons of 30-ton capacity for
use by PUSRI in fertilizer block trains; (e) the design and construction of a
21 km railway line extension in East Java from the existing PJKA line to the
port of Meneng; (f) procurement of three self-unloading bulk urea ships of
7,500 dead weight tons (dwt) similar to the four now owned and operated by
PUSRI, and of one refrigerated ammonia carrier of about 4,500 dwt; (g) minor
improvements to unloading and loading capacity aboard the four ships now owned
by PUSRI; (h) spare parts for the ships and the bagging stations; (i)
consultant services for the design and construction supervision of the
additional bulk reception and bagging station and the ships; and (j) studies
to (i) review the fertilizer marketing system and revise forecasts of
fertilizer use and consumption; and (ii) review the needs of the railway
system to expand the use of block trains for bulk products such as fertilizer,
cement, oil products, rice and sugar, etc.
36.       Part B of the project, which will provide the basis for future Bank
lending in the maritime transport sector, consists of the preparation of
master plans and detailed engineering for about 11 ports, including Tanjung
Priok near Jakarta, and 10 secondary ports.
Implementation and Operations
37.       PUSRI will execute most of Part A of the project with the assistance
of design and construction supervision consultants acceptable to the Bank.
(Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Acceptable consultants have
been employed by PUSRI. Given previous Bank experience, no problems are



- 14 -
envisaged in PUSRI implementing the project. PJKA will implement the railine
extension. While PJKA's past performance has been mixed, specific agreement
has been reached on implementation of the rail line extension which should
provide a basis for timely execution (para. 38). The Directorate General of
Sea Communications will execute Part B of the Project and will retain
consultants under the provisions of the Bank's new Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Part A of the project will be implemented over four years.  The
majority of the work should be completed by June 1984 with only the railway
line construction running to mid-1985. During the period in which the railway
extension is incomplete PUSRI will suffer higher costs for truck movement from
Meneng and some of the fertilizer destined for use in East Java may have to be
unloaded at Cilacap or at Jakarta, and sent long distances by rail to East
Java. Thus, timely completion of the railway extension is critical.- Reflect-
ing this, agreement has been reached with GOI on a detailed construction
schedule. In addition, GOI and the Bank will consult on progress with a view
to determining what steps, if any, should be taken to improve progress; GOI
has also agreed to take whatever steps are required to ensure expeditious
completion (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Delivery of the first
bulk ship and completion of the new bulk reception and bagging stations at
Meneng must also be closely coordinated with the completion of the new
fertilizer plant near Bontang in East Kalimantan.
39.       The Bank, PJKA and PUSRI have agreed upon certain performance indi-
cators for block trains involved in fertilizer distribution operations and
progress on meeting those indicators will be reviewed regularly; if any
problems arise, block train operations will be reviewed and action will be
taken to improve these operations (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, to ensure
timely movement of fertilizer block trains, agreement has been reached that
PJKA shall assign sufficient locomotives to ensure PUSRI-s efficient
fertilizer distribution operations (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finally, PJKA and PUSRI have agreed that adequate maintenance will be
available for the trains involved in fertilizer distribution (Section 3.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $185.3 million with a
foreign exchange component of $138.2 million, or 75%. Cost estimates are
based on late 1981 prices and include (a) overall physical contingencies
totalling 7% of base cost for Part A; and (b) price contingencies totalling
10.7% of base cost. These contingencies are low relative to other Indonesia
projects because the contracts for the ships are being negotiated on the basis
of fixed prices. Excluding the ships physical contingencies total 13.2% of
base costs and price contingencies total 17.7% of base costs.  Contingencies
for Part B of the project are estimated at 9%. Local cost inflation is



- 15 -
projected at 14% in 1982, 10% in 1983, 1984 and 1985; foreign cost inflation
at 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 and 6% in 1984 and 1985. Average man-month
costs for consultants, including the cost of related equipment, travel, sub-
sistence and allowances, are estimated at about $3,000 for local consultants
and from $8,500 to $10,700 for expatriates.
41.       The proposed loan of $66.0 million would finance about 35.6% of
total cost or 48% of the foreign exchange cost. GOI will provide approxi-
mately $46.5 million in budgetary allocations to PJKA to cover all expendi-
tures for the rail line extension and about $18 million to PUSRI. Cofinancing
in the form of export credit for the three urea ships and the ammonia ship,
amounting to an estimated $54.8 million (80% of total cost of these ships) is
being arranged. GOI and PUSRI will enter into a Financing Agreement
acceptable to the Bank to cover onlending arrangements for the $48.5 million
in Bank funds being passed on to PUSRI; the execution of this Financing
Agreement will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.01(d) and
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       Procurement of all equipment by PUSRI over $100,000 will be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) according to the BankIs Guidelines.
Civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of the borrower's proce-
dures but all contracts -of over $1.5 million will be subject to prior review
and comment by the Bank. Only two contracts of this size are expected and
these are in locations and for works which would not attract international
bidders. PJKA will be responsible for construction of the railway line
extention and the materials and equipment required (rail, switches and
signalling equipment costing about $9 million) will be procured through GOI
procedures. Track laying and ballasting will be executed by force account or
by local contractors in accordance with PJKA normal procedures. As noted
above, the ships will be financed by export credits. The bidding process for
the three urea ships has been completed in order to ensure timely delivery of
those ships.
43.       Disbursement of the loan proceeds will be made on the following
basis: (i) 100% of PUSRI civil works (piers and bagging stations), (ii) 100%
of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for equipment manufactured locally or 75% of
the local cost for imported equipment procured locally, and (iii) 100% of the
cost of consultants.
Accounts and Financial Position of PUSRI
44.       Consolidated income accounts and balance sheets indicate that PUSRI
is in a good financial position with a debt/equity ratio of 33/67 and a
current account ratio of 1.7 in 1980. It has consistently earned a reasonable
annual return on average net fixed assets. To ensure the continued financial
viability of PUSRI in view of GOI price controls, agreement has been reached



- 16 -
that, during any period in which the price and distribution margins of ferti-
lizer in Indonesia is controlled by GOI it shall not take any action which
would prevent PUSRI, operating efficiently, from earning a reasonable return,
after taxes, on its assets (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Agreement has also been reached that PUSRI will maintain certain financial
conditions identical to the conditions established in the Third Fertilizer
Expansion Project covering its current ratio, debt service, operating
expenses, return on assets and dividends (Sections 4.04 to 4.06 of the draft
Project Agreement). Finally, in view of certain weaknesses in PUSRI's present
systems it has been agreed that PUSRI will review its accounting and reporting
systems and prepare proposals by June 30, 1982, to enable the preparation of
unit cost estimates for each element of PUSRI's fertilizer distribution
operations; PUSRI will implement any changes in its accounting and reporting
systems as may be agreed between PUSRI and the Bank (Section 4.07 of the draft
Project Agreement). PUSRI's accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and furnish reports thereof within four months of the
end of their fiscal year (Section 4.01(b) and (c) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
45.       Project benefits are based on the savings achieved by transporting
the projected volume of fertilizer using the proposed system rather than the
least cost alternative system, which would involve small bulk carriers for
inter-island transport and truck for intra-Java transport. However, cost
reduction in fertilizer transport costs that will follow from the location of
the new urea plants at Bontang and Aceh, although significant, are excluded.
Costs include all project capital components, economic operation costs, and
other investments at the Gresik factory already underway which are necessary
for operation of the bulk carriers. On this basis the overall economic rate
of return (ERR) over a 15-year horizon is estimated to be 21%, ranging from
24% ERR for bulk shipping, 28% ERR for liquid ammonia shipping, and 13% ERR on
the railway. The proposed project is also financially profitable to PUSRI:
given the combined production and distribution margins established by GOI, the
internal rate of return on the project assets is estimated at 22.5% over a
12-year operating period.
46.       The project runs some risks from the prospects of higher costs if
investments are implemented in an uncoordinated fashion or if fertilizer
demand is lower than expected. The major risks are: (a) delay in the
completion of the railway line and later than contracted ship delivery; and
(b) the inefficient operation of the system especially for block trains and of
the development of bottlenecks in the distribution of fertilizer. To minimize
these risks, a number of specific agreements noted above, have been reached
(paras. 38-39).



- 17 -
Environmental Aspects
47.       No environmental hazards are foreseen as pollution controls similar
to those found acceptable in the earlier project will be installed. In
particular, pollution controls, acceptable to the Bank and similar to those
proposed by the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization, are
included in the ship specifications to control oily water, garbage, and
sewage.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PUSRI and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
49.       Special features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred
to in Section III of Annex III. Of particular note is the special condition
of effectiveness of the Loan, the execution of a Financing Agreement between
GOI and PUSRI acceptble to the Bank (para. 41 above).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                          by Moeen A. Qureshi
March 10, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND 59. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIXATE)/&
TOTAL           1919.3                                         MOST RECENT     LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCGKE
AGRICULTURAL     286.4                  1960  /b   1970 lb    ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US4)                     80.0        140.0           370.0           232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         130.1       128.4          237.1             499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    94680.0    116143.0         142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)     14.6        17.1            19.8             17.3                 40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                           2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          49.3        60.5             74.4            153.6                373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        355.9       417.9           487.3            360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            40.7         44.0           40.8              37.4                  39.8
15-64 YRS.                            56.2        53.5            56.3             59.2                  56.7
65 YKS. AND ABOVE                      3.1         2.5             2.9              3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1         2.0             2.3              2.1                   2.3
URBAN                                 3.7          3.6             4.0             3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.7        40.8            36.2              27.7                  29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.8        17.7            13.3              10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          2.8             2.3              2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..         0.2            27.1             20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             93.0        102.0          103.0             107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       89.0        92.0           105.0             98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)              41.0         41.0            47.0             56.9                  62.5
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            6.0         6.0             6.0             14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         31.2        20.4            13.7             14.6                   4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       39.0        46.7            53.0              57.7                  64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              159.0       126.0           120.0             89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         3.0             12.0            30.1                  45.9
URBAN                                  ..         10.0            35.0            65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                   *-         1.0             6.0             20.1                 34.4
ALCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *-        12.0            15.0             17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                  ..        50.0             60.0             71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                   *-        4.0              5.0              4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            46778.7    26498.5          13644.4            3837.7               4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      7672.8          8851.9           6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1364.1      1644.6          1606.0           1132.8                588.5
URBAN                                251.8         ..           697.3             322.3                579.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..           3159.0           5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..             22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4         4.8
URBAN                                  4.9         5.3
RURAL                                  4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          1.5
URBAN                                   ..         1.6
RURAL                                  ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 19 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - NOCIAL INDICATORS DATA ShEET
INDONESIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT      LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                     71.0         78.0            94.0             85.9                   99.8
MALE                     86.0        83.0            100.0             94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                   58.0        73.0             89.0             64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                      6.0         16.0            22.0             38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                     10.0        21.0             27.0             34.67/aa               58.4
FEMALE                    3.0        11.0             18.0             18.0/aa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)      20.0         22.0            20.0              3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0         29.0            30.0             32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                             14.0         13.0            17.0             19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           39.0         56.6            62.0             52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.0         2.1             3.5               1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             7.2        22.0             38.5             35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.1          0.8             7.3              3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..           ..            17.7              14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        ..          ..             0.8              3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        34752.5      41034.6         50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.9         31.C            29.5             29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  74.8        66.3            59.1             69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.4          9.7            11.8             14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7        35.3            35.6             39.7                   40.2
MALE                                     54.2        49.5            50.1              51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                                  20.0         21.6            21.1             23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2         1.3             1.2               1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PgRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..         33.7/c          23.5
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         52.C/c          49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          6.87W           6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS          ..        17.37W          14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           136.0            134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                   ..           ..           112.0            111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           119.0               *-                  249.8
RURAL                                   * -                        98.0                ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..          ..             28.0             41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                    ..          ..            51.0             51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 20 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAl. INHICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ar  dean  from sources generally judged the eos  authortaiv  an etu ,itsoldas  he noted that they eo  not be Inte-
naionlly lorpareble because of the loch of -tad-ndi-ed definition   and conce.pts tod hydifeen               Icte  in -co-iatog  the data.  The dc   at,coe
thebes  use...fuln  deser-the order  of magnitude, iodi-an  treds, andoarotrte  orol  najnr differaneca!b'_ _.I.
The      ..g..t go.ous.ar  (II the seneo-oo  geou  of the subjeo .. outry aed f2)u  coun..try frnop  ith e..eanhan higher  -roego inn t  than thono-nne   grop
of  he  ub)setcoutoyleuep  for "C tl Surplus Oil tEnr,.       e"grop obeys "Otoddle  t--s  ON-th Aft i- and Middle East' is chosen heca.to of strnge
eotoootuslAffinities).  In th  reeeosgop dtt   h   nrgsaepplto  oibt   na                                     tonssfrethtdSuc   o   hn   ryoo
ejori ty of the.. tunties InsI group has data for that indicator,  lin.- nhs -ons-ge of countrie  Inn  nhe Indicators. depe                 on c  oh. ocaliahilliy  I data
and isnnai s  caution must be enernised in relasting -n-rgee of one undiono  no. annby   Tneconn    rInp  uflicopto                                        hitOit
on TnIenra  I tine asong nhe county and referno  groups.
LAND uARE  (rho..e..d sq.km.)                                                                     PocolnprOcy  c  a     00                  hr   n  rrl-Pplrto ..coc.
Total - To rat sotft  ara..p.        sn  land.area and iolnd enesra,ond rura) divided by thiecnopcoc  cabc. optlbda
AE.ftost-t -tst  of agriculturla-    a  usa  nmerl  or l .e.n.nanly                       saabeipulcodpnnegenorol od sPectat_e  hoepito1 ondr
fur oropo. pasnones, narhet and Aitohen  s-dens nr no Iio fallo; 1970 dana.                     hbsilinotinoe-tor.Hspital1 -oc   -tobhliah.ntu p-orm -1ncy souffod
by .t mteEonpyscin   P bll lsnot  proniding pettaipalll prutn-
lNP Pit CAPITA (Ut)) - GN'P.pe  to pita   sae  on curren t norket petees, net-                      dyial tan rl     ntInnlded Roabhscos   .oset  IntludeIhninh
noltatd by aatn     - conerion   _hod as ucold Bank Atlas i197P-79 basin); loll,                  and sedicl1 con-r  non penanent ly unoffd by a physicIan, (ho  by
1970, and 1910 dato.                                                                              naditoo  os..unnt, nuran  midoitt, one.)hichIoffrec- ain  acnc
datton and proode   Itnine,d cange of medi-n1 facilltioa.  Pot utaie-
ENiGYT CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - kotNua  -nnsuptitn of  -c-mciul enerfgy localn                              "Pa ypseoba. hospitls1 include nets prtncipotlge..a.1 h'epitol,
and ligoite, petroeus, natural gas and hydro-, otls  and geothermal dee-                          andmin  hbasptel   loa  or coral hoapiotsl ond medicl-  and van...lny
rtoly  in kilogram  of coa  eqoin-len  per napint;'1060, 1970, ad 1979. cateen.  ISpecitalled hosplals ar  in-loded only undac tona.
dot..A.ein   a  Hsia   e   Totut onuber of adeinni... noo  dtch-tf-
frn h-epitols dtvidnd by the ousbar of beds.
POPULATION ANl VITAL, STATIDTIC S
Tonsi Pnpulstinn. Mid-Ynar (thousands.) - us of Snip 1; 1060, 1970, ond 19)9                  HOUSING
dots                                                                                          Averag  lien of  houebld (enn   o   oohl)-tnl   ra.odcrl
loban  ocolsaon lon ofenba of  ,totl) - Ratio of -nban no nts1 population;                  A house holdcesesia group of toinidusin  h.c  h.-r  lymi.gacr
different" ef"oinnon  of orb. enaosay a nomnaouyo   aaad chair main   aa   A bcardero  lodger nay or ray non bn inclddI
anu    cnre;1960  1970, and 1010 daa                                                   tho hb...hold foI nea telpurPon.
Poelanton1'  in .year tlOil - C1nroenn, populat1ion prujeoionn are based on 1990                her ofF peron  pe F   oe .. n all urb-n, and eurot occopHed nnvonti_ol
ltnr Ft pou tina byog    d  e  and nhir aernatty and fert Ility ren.drlts    oPeen-,                                 y     oeitof  et lden        _par naonttectreed
Projection pa r-mtar  for macctmy rates coprise of three lev-n1 ee- t..oiedpa..
tog life e_p-as-y at bten-1,        ntn    iSh country's per nopita incoa                  accest fleonItio(ecn   fOolna      oa,ubn   n   uo
lee,ad femle  if  enentysalt g an 71.0 years.  Th. paro-                                  Cnetoadelinge  theeti  t 1It lvig quat...ru an perentge
metrsn  fertiliyraelshvethreeteet  as....afg decline in                                   of nono1, urban, and cocI doelig1 repeH tony.
fertility  -nonditg to in.c.. leno  and past family plt...iJg performace.
Etah  -ounto  is thena,,   ne  O of thsf      Ineonhuinuof mortaity                      fDUCATtON
and,.teen itiyted  foepneno  p-npse.                                                       Adjuated E-tt 1t.s.nc Retios
InatinnaconorulantonInaIs~tian . tony population the-  iso  gronth aies                  Prmr   col- onnt manadfa   -tN   ttl   atadfn
the bireh rats II nqol no the deeth cane  andals  the oa             - trutr  reHno                     e  o   i ogea         hnepimay levl         P. ptnene   frsp_oO
--nen ten.  This is achievdonyote-aciiyrtsd_anitnato                                        primary -oh-o-age populalnti ; normaly includes child-eo  aged b-il
nho replacemen.t Is-el of cot  -a  reproducion rate, oh   nan  genrtinyenta but adjostnd fo  diffnroI lenHehO  of pniaary ednontio; foe
uf none  raplee-  itself ..ann1y.  The stationary popn1atioaieeoo nere  nith oniveroal odocoI.n eIclee  ma  e...ed 101 pcc
estimatd on the bust  tf the pro jened oha-atteielti   of the popoIati-n                        sinco  scan pupIta  r  be1e or ob-v  the offic io1 inhootIg.
in the yea  2101, and the cane of decline of fennijity rate tore.placo-                       Secondry school - tota, sole and femaleI  -Ifotdsoao-e; -s-odory
sent leve.                                                                                      oduation requires at least four pears of approve.d priary Inotru  tot;.
Yeo  .nstionsoy porulntin is -echod - The year  hben  -noiona..y population                       penv idongnra.entnl r ece  nen   instruction- Soc  .Pipk
site   Ibaa  enecnbd.                                                                          u....l o1 f      tc 11 Yearn of ae  coepodee ....         oe  at Ignerally
Ponulatino  .essity                                                                                 a-lided.
Per sq. km.- Mid-yea  population Per  q50am   kilom..e - (100  bo    oca   f                     Voeioo  nnrIenn   eencen  of s-condeer) - lCatnitttuco
toastares  190  l7l  ntd i979 data.                                                       tcoetcncl  looarl, 1  or o'thrProgrSa uhic  operate leei                     d
Per eq_k. Inric ln         ed '-.CoPuted as aho- foe agrn-1tu-a  land                             ectpo  a  departmen-  of secondaryintonna
only; 1906, loll end to7g data.                                                               Pucit-1~,teehe  cato-""   mn  andae-ndaro.- To tataune   noldi
"Poention AS. Structurel frerc-nt) - Childre  lI-lu  year).  -nklo&g-au  (11-                       Fray  n   ecode  bt                fddb   unoaofnahrbi  h
60 years). and centred (65 years and ove)  a pe-nnong-n of mid-year popu-                         correpondinglen
,tattoo: l960, 1901H.and 19179 data.                                                            Adult i-te -ac  rate (pernen...    Lieedo1tn  (able en red and nole)
Peuat  _.toth. t leecn)_- ftona  - dAnua..l ltot  racest of ftota  aid-                       aapercetag  of tonal adul  poaon              aged 15 poem  andevn
peer popolerion for 1950-60, 1960-li,oad 107 0-719.
'PupLanton (;n,-h tans (renne..tt -urbhn- Annual groth race  of urban Pop-                    CONSU0OPTION
.tai.n. fo r IOSH-60. 1065-70. old  790-79.                                                  yaeennnr C am1 loon tho...and pnpu1anine)-Panes.a gee cars  -oyi    oo
Crude~ ~ ~ ~~~~             ~1 Nthne(ertosn)-AnatIne births per ebonaud of rid-yercresainglo  than night per....o; e- ldena-hune,bar                               n
pplto; 1060, 1019t, sod 1010 deta.                                                        millnay vehicles
Crude Ds-h Rae   e t    housand ) - Annual deaths per tho.....d  of nid-year                    Rodic R-neivn InIc thousad  Iorlnon) - All types of --civec  for radio
ppltion; 1960), 19011   od 1019 data                                                       hbod--aa   on        ~ genra  pbic per obhonand of Popolan..  -ionecone-
tress  Needurttcn Rae- A-ocga number of doughaersIsno..noill hear ilcesdtecein  n...otlns an.d in ~yearn then  -giaftiu.o  e   ai
her nomlrpoutvepro.fah  eneIene  prseeag-peiicfc_sane   in effect; data forl _y reoo   n                                                       -Y may no   .e.comprable ti-c
Ifi ats  usalytfin-peso a-..og. e.nding in 1060, 1070, and 1000.                           nose nenrlboliehed Ifteen tug.
Pattly Psot- Atontea f.Ann..t (thousand) - Annual number of --cp--e                             OPlnie o fre  th-nend  -oeloion) -TVrneor  for brodcast  no
ofbrt-otrol devices ader. pneices o          f ntoa tily plant.Ing program.               general poblio e.     tosadppo,tatc;oeue    t cne   i  oec
PtvPanine-s    e  lornn   of mctid I....n -.Percentage of macIed.                           incnnrtaadinpashergstton f nem oen  ffn.t
omnof child-bearing sge (1-tyan)oouebirhnnrtdevin   notNerparenn  Ciro1onion l~eer fhbt....d ppnlanion)f- ib..s the -verge cot-
alt married nomen in ..se age group.                                                            noainof "doily genera  in incest nespeper", defined Iosape- fdi-oI
publicaItion deno.ted pJrimrly tneodn    eea  neon.   It   tin . oaidored
pOOD ADol NUTRfITION                                                                                to h  "dailY" tii   pper  atlat fooc nine  aIe
laden of Pond Preduonion per Cams l1969-71-100) - Inden of Pne capita .-n..I                    Cinem  Annual Attedancep: eC.pfonts         Y-cTean-...d o   he nomber of
pend-nnion of eli foo  nnneiie.Production maiudes need and feed and                             tlkote sold durIngneya,including admtssto   no t  dome--in etona
te on -sene  ya  bai. inmdintl coe  primary god   eg. sgratnd mbl   ns
Instend of  rue) oiobar dible an.d conai  n             ste  (e.g. .aft.e ond
tea. are eonldd)., A&ggegete podunniol of oath country II baaed on                         LABOR FORCE
nolinn.als_ecage prednoer pe iceneights; i9gt-g5, 1970, and 1010 date.                        Total Labor PFe-n fibou....dal - Ennonmitolly active pereoni, including
Pe -nrtasun   ofneore  feerne    of rqiemnsI- Corpodt ro                                  amed  fcs  adonptpdht  eldnghoe                     -vn   cdentn,ot,
energy  qoion  oonfod suPppies avtlbIe in country per cna pta                                noeto   opltio    falae.nfintosittoioo                                    e
pee ,day.  Available supplies comprIsedmsic Prodctioc, inpnsls                                 e  copatehi; 1960, t97l and  9101  data.
Ieprna.ad changes in snok.  Net suppli_a enclde anma  feed, needs,Fml                                 neo       eaemn    oc   0pretg   fntllbrfre
qoannini. es ned in food procee..iog, and losses in dintrliborien. inL,-Accloe(oret      s                                  oc  Snfamig,foetry, h'nig  o
a ota-ehe:et iatd by FAO hose d on physioogcalneds  o om l ati-                               fiahngaperennge   f tonal tuber force  lOi 9170 ed 1010 dat.
ciyedbah cons.idering enviton-itolSe poaosbody ceighta,.S og'nut   pre t)-Labor for-n to ninig,oencto,maucurg
aodsondistribution of popoistion, and  IIoning if percen ofo  ne            If on           ad e1-tricity,  -ute  and gues ..pecenntge of annl   blao  force  tos
householtd level; t9OHi-65. 1010, and 1010 dana.                                               1010 and 1010 dana.
Pe putaeely ofernin (cars. Pe- deyl - Protein cot--  of per- naie                     Pectioaioni hon   'Pe,",nt - totl, mat, and femle -Participation0
net supl   f fond per day.  Nee supply of food is defined an abov.-  Re-                      a_tvin   toesar          optnd en notol. mte,endfnnle be   forea
qoirem lyn fo al   t countries established by CSDA provide One sinimn                         per-entages of total, mate ond famal  poponlionf  ei  get r_apnlv_            y
atlosnee  f 60 grass of total p--nie Poe day and 2  grSs_ of enimalad                         1960, 1010, ond 0107 dons   Thet  se  hesed on lILO' poetic nyti on  ae
polse Protin, of ohich 10 graro ahold be unima  protein.  Tb. eIn etad-                       relcttg.g-onsrutr  oftepoplanie. and beg tnir  red 
erAsIt ar  towe  than thos  of 715 gcans of total pro tein ed 21gras  offentimenaefentoalore.
animal pen ntnsIa  avrag  for tha norld, proposed by Phi, in nhe Third                     Icn..it Depedenc  Rati  - Ratin of population under 15 end 65 enod over
aortA Pood I.e.ey; togi-gi  lOll0  1ond917P1.dane,                                            tothb  coccI labor for-
Pen nurita ereenio so el fra  aimal ad   ie   - Protein supply of fonod de-
nive  Pro  animals and pulses. in grin  per doy; 1961-h5, 1010 and 1077 dana.            INCOMEo DISTRIBUTION
Child  se  1-A  tf_u,    n ion  fPe'  hthouand  - Annual deaths ee  thousan.d in                P-nnae    riu icn                 hoi  in cu  on1 kiod) - Rscoicd by rinhn
ag   roup 1-4 year, no childeen In thiI age  Tnop; for mann developinS non                       ecet  iha  1   r o,poorest 20 PIro-, and p..orent 40 p-r_v
'trie   data derived from  life nhi 9;60H, 1010 ond 1010 data,                                  of hboceho1do.
HAL.TH                                                                                         POVERiTY TARGET GROUPS
Life Epe-tancyIt Bithi (nests  -tAverage nuber of years of life reminingThe following  -simanot are very aponfaena                                         n  Povetly levels,
anh 9th  lgo  l9ll anI00daan  should be  nerrte    ith ..onsidoci   auice.
Isfunt Notelity Sat i,rertho..sadl - Annual  deatha of infaotso.dee One pear                    E fotiand Absolote Povety ncm  Level  itOetcr)-rban. and tal-.-
ofaepethousan d live births..Aslt   oet   noelvli  hnicm   ee   ec   hc       iia
e:,,r soba   hst from  pe-et-dt        nhls.srns   n  snnroa   as                               Iuteaiv  poverty tecoma leve  in one-t hird of ev.rag. pen cptn
pf etaiges ofhthe irrepective  popolutto.  InaInurbn urs...apoblir                              personal iteo    of thI  nty.Ibun love  in derived f-e1hetoa
fonan  readposn Ioated not acne than 20i entrs 0roa a house Ymay be-Dv                         i nub sd7utmo    _or hiber coatn        igi   rbe  areas
rausonai eccen noudimlchctheh          inofo on vesher   ft ens gh-usebod                 adcoral -1 Portent of popolatine (urban and rural) oho arec "ablt
do pot have no opendu.dinprop-nion..o- part cf th   a   n  ec,gth                                  e'
Aces icfcrtf.scs  (percent uf popaleecco -_wton Irhan. ond rurl-
Peenennage  of nhsIrf re ftoivepoplations.  tEc-eta disposal may iniode
the toltencion and disposal , nith on Wtaihot toaen,o   ua   a-aaynai   n   oiu1 lani intion
and  ests-mter bp ester-borne nysnm   or the  seofpit pivies ond ati-                                                           E-onaic Anat1-nt ad Prn(ecelnc   hopo--oe
Iar ittattinsMAy  i
Poenlanion ee- Phyeioia   - Popalanion divided by number of pru-tioing physi-                                                                               1
eia.s q.aJified foe. a medica   colo            vrIty level
Ponotanienu ero Nursing Psoso..   Pepolatiae divide  by nuber of pre-tining
melaefemalsgnadoaon-            saprucetcal nussInd assonnsa



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 21 -
Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                  Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                            1980           1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024           5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        29,227           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976           6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.n   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                   15,494           7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1    7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national. savings           17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                          166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                      415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                          Average annual increase (X)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9          8.4         7.5         7.3         7.5
Agriculture                 54      47      32     26      22      17         2.7          4.1         4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7         9.0         9.0
Services                    32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumption                 91      89      79     70      74      74         4.1          8.4         8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment             8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8         18.3        11.7        12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS             13      13      23     31      23      18         3.6          9.2         8.7         3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1        14.0         8.7         4.9
Gross national savings       8       9      17     25      25      22         6.1         23.1        14.4         4.8         7.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980
PIJBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                          11.7            10.1           10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4            9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                -2.3            +1.6           +7.1               +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                        n.a.            5.0           10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2            3.5            3.7                 3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                               4.5             7.6                 6.9              7.3             7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                    2.4              5.1                4.5              4.9             5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                2.9            16.0                15.0             11.0            10.0
ICOR                                                     2.2             2.2                 3.1              3.4             3.8
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30            0.48                0.30             0.18            0.26
Import elasticity                                        1.2             2.8                 1.9              1.2             0.7
/a At market prices.
7-T Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



A> vLX I
i.pulation        147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                           Page 5 of 5 pag,
CNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)                             - 22 -
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate                       Projected
Indicator                   1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)              7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,980    18,836   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                         3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,393         5,692    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)       -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -69,903
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,023  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536      -586      -659     -975      -968    -1,100   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                       175     -140    3,459    3,596       -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203         -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt            -441      -514      -772     -824   -1,012    -1,226   -,1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                     -424      -501      -489     -381      -191        494       273      281       151     -548
5.  Capital grants                          66       46        52        76        67       100       100       100      100       100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment              285      271       217       140       178       200       350       450      600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,2n5    1,865    2,612    3,976         4,120    4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization                    -825   -1,548   -1,329       -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements              1,131       657       536    1,660    2,808       2,812    3,284    3,829    4,080    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140      891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418          500       800    1,000       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651        -708   -1,690   -2,736        330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115          188
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012        8,325    9,834   11,674   13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                       3.4       4.3       5.6      6.9       5.6        5.7       5.5      5.5       5.9      4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                 -        -    6,906   10,787   10,357    11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        - 3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1      8.3        8.0       7.4      7.0       7.5       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612
Concessional TLoans                       442      484       433    --135
Bilateral                              381       448       399       684
IDA                                     49        29        30        42
Other                                    12        6         5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,880
Official export credits               2T1      --27T    -6--T         4W
IBRD                                    191      168       199      331
Other multilateral                       16       12        46        52
Private - source                     1,089    1,270    1,126    1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                  7,077    8,390    8,434    9,442
Private  - source                  4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments               1,262    2,062    2,101    1,777
Interest                             441       514       771      824
Payments as % exports /e              11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(x)                                    6.3       7.6       6.6      8.1
Official - source                       5.4      4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                       8.6     10.2       8.6      12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                               2n.5      18.7      19.1     18.9
Official - source                     23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                      10.4      8.6      11.1      10.0
As x of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                               30.5
Maturities due within 1Oyears                                                                             64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                               4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Th  Excludes private nonguiaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                        January 20, 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                        13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                   13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                      16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                   6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                   45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                     30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                   0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                   8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                1.06



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00             37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00              8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00             12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00             41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00             12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                 1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50             14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00              8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00             37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00             52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00            123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00             22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00             44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00             37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00            107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00            111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00            240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00             45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00             22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00               106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1               85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



-25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                        3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                        3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                            2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8     17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 74.2      3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                   40.6     14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant-s portion)   53.1          0.9       54.0



- 27 _                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATITS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



-  1 -, ;NLX i 
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabiliia-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of Maich 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor-s and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pageb
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other- project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX I1
- 35 -                     Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                         Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed.  Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946  Yogyakarta Rural Development:  $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



- 37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule. The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



- 40 -                        ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



- 41-                             ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



- 42                         ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works.  The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI's budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds.  The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI.  Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



- 43 -                       ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982.  Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP-s financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



- 44 -               ~~~ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be comple.ed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 45 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 46 -                        ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed.  Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979_; Clo_sing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 48 -                     ANNEX II
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
49 -               Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
- 50 -                    Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A -problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



ANNEX III
- 51 -                     page 1 of 2 pages
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  PUSRI and GOI with consultant
assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       November 1980
(d) First Bank mission to identify
the project:                        January/February 1981
(e) Dates Qf departure of appraisal
mission:                            April 1981
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations: February 1982
(g)  Planned Date of effectiveness:        May 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
With GOI:
(a)  should-progress on the construction of the railway line from
Kabat to Meneng fall behind the agreed schedule, GOI and the
Bank will consult on steps to improve progress and GOI will
take any steps to ensure timely completion of the work (para.
38);
(b)  onlending arrangements with PUSRI must be completed (a condi-
tion of effectiveness, para. 41);
(c)  so long as the sale and distribution of fertilizers in
Indonesia is controlled by GOI, no action will be taken which
will prevent PUSRI from earning a reasonable rate of return
on its assets (para. 44);



-52-                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
With PUSRI:
(d) adequate staff will be added to regional marketing staff to
provide market intelligence (para. 31);
(e) proposals for the revision of the management accounting system
will be drawn up for discussion with the Bank by June 1982 and
agreed proposals implemented immediately thereafter (para. 44);
(f) on the appropriate financial ratios to be maintained (para. 44);
On PJKA:
(g) on a construction schedule for the implementation of the railway
line extension (para. 38);
(h) that an adequate number of locomotives will be assigned to
fertilizer block trains to ensure efficient fertilizer distri-
bution operations by PUSRI (para. 39).



IBRD 15763R
PHItJP?                             W4DONE5~~~~~~~~~~~LA
-X  -  -    3FERTIIZER DISMTRUTION  PROJECT
\   u   >               -     -   .    f>0 N               t    >                    /'          '   '            '       4   :  :~~~~~~~-  -    0  
N :< b > g A , , \ i tJ ; ;X. X , ; ; t;0== }, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-® ~00iO~M~~le0 0 ~I00
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      o  a\  xl    o V&
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                               IJ                        ----   0 Sd0 n;fd 0S00OQX 0 ,F, 
X~~$   a                                    w                                     X                                     A                            C a-   0 A;  0v    0lS  '000; 
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ALAYSIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J ~ ~   ~      ~     ~    ~     0-0                               o o o.oe
Z~~~~ M00L000 ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~        AYI
00 Wst 000000000  00000d.400~000 ~ k000. ofl,,bo.o*.dO
Lost  oo  00~M40t0    000000 d000000 ,,,.onao0 1WEt.oA
20  0~~~0.'E~~000~   5'~~0~0W00OW~~0W.~~0,W0,1
-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~A  
FAV A- ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0oo~ls



I



IBRD 15764
1SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    5O       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    1-MAY lEE
I NDO0NESIA
K  SUMATRA                                                                                                                                                                                              FE;TILIZE D.,RtBUTION   PROJECT
AVA
f          I,R /1. !. ..7~im GA     DOURLE TRACK ELECTRIFIED
-.-~-I   lSES~mI3AGEDDOULE TRACK
------+--.Mmr~OA~3ESINGLE TRACK
m           r -                                                                       a f  v       a    s                
MAIN ROADS
I  JAKA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~4ok                                                                                              -- ~~~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORTS
A~~~~~~~~~~  ... g                                                                                                                              T, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,IR PORTS
L.boh.                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING KITRUFEN PLANIT
:nI C 0ro,~ q                                                                                                                                                      t                            p O R E O P   C S H   T E   F E R T IL IZ E R   P t A N T
A  ~ RpIO~E-D BI~K -TERMINAL
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~          R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;  EGIORAL EMARKETrIN4 OFFICE  FPR
P.eW-g                                                                                       B.k.-                                                     uS ,rtNANDQlEPqf ' .    = =        CS R
T.h,opR  b.. pr4wd Ry Iho W,H  0    NN                                      I                                                                                                         KWi ri:                                    E /S,
1 1110101,1 E00014                                                       ;ondou- oso
FSooh Clon, Sh
~~'~~~AILANI                             IANJAV  I
AlA         stsb II               
INS/AN   DC  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~                                                                    lIE?                                                                                                                 1140~~~~0 
AOFOIh/I,Oo~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ILM El   rn  OR14



