Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL UISE ONLY
Report No: 22979
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38830; SCL-38836)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
CL-SECONDARY EDUCATION
10/19/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso
Ch.$1 = US$ 0.00154 (August 2001)
US$ 1 = Ch.$650 (August 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEU           Curriculum and Evaluation Unit
CRA           Learning resource centers (Centro de recursos de aprendizaje)
DGE           General Education Division (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n)
GC           Government of Chile
GPT          In-site peer in-service teacher training groups (Grupos Profesionales de Trabajo)
IEA          International Evaluation Association
ME           Ministry of Education
MECE-Media Bank-financed secondary education project (Mejoramiento de la Calidady Equidad)
NSECU        National Secondary Education Coordination Unit
OECD         Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PME           School-based quality improvement project (Proyectos de Mejoramiento Educativo)
SIMCE        Learning Achievement Measuring System (Sistema de Informaci6n sobre la Calidad
de la Educaci6n)
TIMSS        The Third International Mathematics and Science Study
OREALC       UNESCO's Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager,'Director:    Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Juan Prawda



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
CL-SECONDARY EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        01
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       01
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             01
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                04
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     20
9. Partner Comments                                                                    22
10. Additional Information                                                             23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  32
Annex 8. Comments from the Borrower                                                    36
This document has a restricted distribution arid may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






|Project ID: P006673                                     {Project Name: CL-SECONDARY EDUCATION
Team Leader. Juan Prawda                                  TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        |Report Date: October 24, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CL-SECONDARY EDUCATION                         L/C/TFNumber: CPL-38830;
SCL-38836
Countrv/Department: CHILE                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: ES - Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/21/92                                Effective: 01/09/95
Appraisal:  11/30/94                                  MTR: 06/10/99
Approval:  05/09/95                                Closing: 06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF CHILEI/MIN EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                          Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                                Allain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Juan Prawda                               Juan Prawda
ICR Primary Auithor:  Juan Prawda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve the internal and external efficiency, quality, and equity of
the educational services provided by municipal and private subsidized secondary schools; and (b)
strengthen the managerial capacity in the Borrower's secondary education sector.



3.2 Revised Objective:
Notwithstanding that the Legal Agreement was amended three times (January 24, 1996, August 4, 1998
and November 29, 2000), the original objectives remained unchanged during project implementation.
The above-mentioned amendments refer to conversion of the financial terms of the Loan, change of
currency and reallocation of proceeds in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement, as detailed in the table
provided in section 7.7 of this report.
3.3 Original Components:
In order to facilitate the day-to-day implementation arrangements of the project and the Bank supervision,
the Borrower proposed, and the Bank accepted, an aggregation of the original components detailed in
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement as follows. The aggregation combined: (i) paras. Al to A4, A6, A10
(b) and AlO (c) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement as "redesign of the curriculum and learning
assessment for grades 9 to 12"; (ii) paras A5, A7, A8, AIO (a), Al 1 and A19 as "provision of on-site peer
in-service teacher training through the teacher professional groups (GPTs)"; (iii) paras. A13, A1 6 to Al 8
as "establishment of learning resource centers (CRAs) and computer laboratories (red Enlaces) and
acquisition and distribution of textbooks"; (iv) para. A9 was redefined as "carrying out extra-curricular
activities for at risk-students (Programa J6venes)"; (v) paras. A12, A14 and A15 as "carrying out
school-based quality improvement projects (PMEs)"; (vi) paras. A20 and A21 as "construction and
rehabilitation of schools and provision of school furniture and school-identity symbols"; (vii) paras. B1 to
B4 as "provision of technical assistance to project schools, focusing exclusively at the school level"; and
(viii) para. A22 referred to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
According to the above-mentioned combination of detailed project sub-components, the Government of
Chile (GC) implemented the following project components to achieve the objectives referred in 3.1 above:
(a) redesign of the curriculum and learning assessment for grades 9 to 12;
(b) provision of on-site peer in-service teacher training through the teacher professional
groups (GPTs);
(c) establishment of learning resource centers (CRAs) and computer laboratories (red Enlaces) and
acquisition and distribution of textbooks;
(d) construction and rehabilitation of schools and provision of school furniture and school-identity symbols;
(e) carrying out school-based quality improvement projects (PMEs); and
(f) carrying out extra-curricular activities for at risk-students (Programa J6venes).
In addition, to strengthen the managerial capacity in the Borrower's secondary education sector, the GC
implemented the following component:
(g) provision of technical assistance to project schools, focusing exclusively at the school level.
- 2 -



Component                     Appraisal estimate total cost
Total     IBRD         GC        Ratings
Curriculum and evaluation        7.12        0.0        7.12         HS
Teacher training                 9.79        0.0        9.79          S
Learning resources               90.36      16.85       73.51        HS
Infrastructure                   48.88       0.0        48.88        HS
School-based quality improvement  24.38     15.84       8.54         HS
projects
Extra-curricular activities      15.81       0.0        15.81         S
Technical assistance             2.90        0.0        2.90         U
Project coordination unit (PCU)  7.76       2.31        5.45         HS
Total                           207.00      35.00      172.00        HS
3.4 Revised Components.
At the request of various Bank supervision missions (as detailed in section 7.2 of the ICR), several
tailored-made research studies were conducted in 1999 to evaluate project implementation mid-way its
implementation cycle. As a result of the research findings, a more appropriate targeting of project
activities was carried out in 400 high-risk secondary education schools including better performance
indicators. Accordingly, some project activities were subsequently attuned and targeted to these 400
schools, including, inter-alia, intensive technical assistance and monitoring by the PCU every 15 days,
institutional self-assessment and remedial and compensatory tailored-made interventions. The high-risk
criteria was defined as a function of repetition and dropoult rates, learning achievements and location of the
secondary school according to the Ministry's of Planning (MIDEPLAN) poverty criteria. Other changes
made in the original components included: (i) better gauging of the arrival of project activities to secondary
schools thus speeding up project implementation; (ii) enrichment of the options menu offered to the project
schools, more attuned to their characteristics; and (iii) alignment of project-financed learning inputs with
the revised curriculum and to the needs of schools adopting the full-day schedule.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Even though no formal Quality at Entry criteria was available at the time of project preparation and
appraisal, this report follows Bank Quality Assurance Group standards.  In this section, the Chile
Secondary Education project is reviewed according to ils consistency with Chile's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). Other Quality at Entry criteria associated with the Borrower and Bank's performance
during the identification, preparation and appraisal stages are provided in chapter 7 of the ICR including:
(i) Borrower's sector knowledge and strategy underpinning project design; (ii) clarity and realism of
proposed project development objectives; (iii) appropriateness of project approach; (iv) appropriateness of
project conditionalities included in the Legal agreement; (v) technical, economic, environmental, social and
stakeholder aspects and lessons learned; (vi) financial management; (vii) Borrower's institutional capacity
to implement the proposed project; (viii) readiness for implementation, especially for the first year; (ix) risk
assessment and sustainability considerations; and (x) Borrower's commitment, ownership, participation
- 3 -



and readiness for implementation.
As stated in para. 34 of the CAS (Report 14370-CH) dated April 17, 1995, education is a key aspect of
achieving the Government's objective of upgrading Chile's human capital, with a view towards improving
the country's competitiveness in the intemational arena.  Chile's educational system  is at a crucial
development juncture. Having expanded the primary education system to attain nearly universal coverage,
the challenge is to continue ensuring equity in access to high quality education, while concurrently
enhancing the internal efficiency of the system. The Bank has supported the Government's efforts in these
areas through a US$170 million primaty education loan (MECE-Basica) approved in FY92 and completed
in 1998. The Secondary Education Bank-financed project (MECE-Media) was designed to assist the
Government in raising the quality of secondary education, enhancing its external (relevance) and internal
efficiency, and improving equity. In addition to the above reasons, the Government of Chile also requested
that the Secondary Education project be included in the Bank's lending program, since it wished to retain
and enrich the relationship with the Bank in the education sector. For all these reasons, the project was
consequently fully consistent with the CAS for Chile.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Otutcome/achievement of objective:
General assessment by the ICR mission. Based on the documentation review, the field visits to
secondary schools in two cities (Calama in the second region and Valdivia in the tenth region), and the
discussions held with educational authorities, the ICR mission concluded that the implementation of this
project was highly successful. The project achieved (as detailed in Section 4.2 and in Annex 8), and in
some cases, surpassed its original objectives. All, but one, of the project components (provision of
technical assistance) have been transferred to the mainstream structures of the Ministry of Education (ME)
as of FY01 as explained in chapter 6 of the ICR. Financial and technical sustainability of these project
activities was ensured. Finally, all of the above achievements was carried out in a very efficient fashion as
fully detailed in section 5.4 of the ICR.
Notwithstanding the achievements explained in more detailed below by stated project original objective, it
is difficult to assess the degree to which the project contributed to these accomplishments for the following
two reasons. First, the project was implemented throughout the entire country and did not include an
experimental design comprising a control group to measure its impact. Second, and more important, two
years into the project implementation cycle, the GC launched an ambitious educational reform, including
secondary education. The reform aimed at: (i) incorporating the entire municipal and private-subsidized
school system in the full-day schedule; (ii) improving the pre and in-service teacher training for basic and
secondary education; (iii) revising the curriculum and learning assessment system from preschool to grade
12; and (iv) piloting educational innovations in 51 selected secondary schools in the entire country known
as Liceos Montegrande. The GC allocated as much as an average of US$ 110 million/year of its own funds
to implement the reform since 1998. The Bank-financed secondary education project, which contributed to
the achievement of the reform objectives and disbursed a total of US$153 million during the entire five-year
implementation cycle, became totally immersed in the synergy emerging from this significant and
challenging government endeavor.
Improvement of the secondary education internal efficiency. At the end of project implementation, the
secondary education system in Chile improved its internal efficiency, as attested by increased access and
reduced repetition and dropout rates. Preliminary data reflects that the net enrollment rate for the 14-17
year-old population increased from 78% in 1995 to 84% in 2000 (last year for which available data exists).
-4 -



The average yearly increase in secondary enrollment went from 1.5% in the period 1980-1995 to 4.1%
during the implementation cycle (1995-2000). The gains in the municipal and private-subsidized secondary
system are explained below (section on equity). In spite of this significant change in access to secondary
education, however, there are inequities with respect to secondary education coverage, which are still being
addressed by the GC. The average net enrollment rate for this age group in the urban areas is 92%, while
in the rural areas is 76.8%; enrollment in the upper-income group is 98.5% compared to 82.3% in the
lower-income group; and 95.8% in Region I while 79% in the VII Region.
The average repetition rate in the entire secondary education cycle decreased from 12% to 6.4% in the
1995-2000 period. This accomplishment is a significant improvement from the situation prior to the
implementation of the project where the average secondary education repetition rate slightly decreased from
13% in 1989 to 12% in 1995. The average repetition rate in first grade of secondary education (grade 9)
decreased from 15% in 1995 to 8.9% in 2000. The average dropout rate in grade 10 decreased from 6.3%
in 1995 to 3.9% in 2000, while the average dropout rate for the entire four-year secondary education cycle
also decreased, from 32% in 1995 to 24.8% in 2000. In the municipal secondary schools it decreased from
41% to 33% in the same 1995-2000 period. The average number of years to complete the secondary
education cycle decreased from 5.35 years in 1993 to 4.95 in 2000. As a consequence of this improved
efficiency, the average graduation rate of those students entering 9th grade and completing 12th grade in 4
years increased from 47.9% for cohort 1986-1990 to 51.6% for the cohort 1996-2000.
However, less than half the students entering secondary education will complete the cycle in 4 years. This
situation is more acute within families belonging to the lowest income quintile and with students attending
municipal schools.  In private-paid schools, 75% of students entering first grade will complete the
secondary education cycle in 4 years. About 40% of first graders in municipal secondary schools will
never complete the cycle, compared with 23.4% in private-subsidized schools and 10.6% in private-paid
ones.
Improvement of the secondary education external efficiency (curriculum pertinence). At the end of
project implementation, the secondary education system in Chile also improved its extemal efficiency as
demonstrated by a more pertinent curriculum of grades 9 to 12 and an improved leaming assessment
scheme. The revised secondary education curriculum includes a more appropriate fit with the future needs
of society and has radically modified the traditional frontal, and mostly ineffective, teaching methods (as
fully explained in section 4.2 below).
With respect to improving the extemal efficiency of the municipal and private-subsidized technical
secondary schools, and in accordance with para. A10 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the project
achieved the following four relevant accomplishments. First, the curriculum of grades 9 and 10 of
technical secondary schools was revised and made part of the ten-grade basic general education for all.
Second, in collaboration with the private productive sector, the curriculum of grades 11 and 12 of these
schools was totally modified. Accordingly, the 500 technical specialities that existed under the old
curriculum were reduced to 46 grouped in 14 occupational families. Consequently, all the leaming and
teaching goods provided by the project to the technical secondary schools, were aligned to the revised
curriculum (grades 9 to 12). Finally, with the technical advice of GTZ (outside project funds), 100
technical secondary schools were included in a Dual Learning Scheme altemating school-based education
with hands on the job in selected productive firrns that participated in this teaching/learning format. These
project accomplishments have strengthened the relationship between the technical secondary education and
the productive sector, and the lessons learned in this fruitful experience are being included in the design of
the forthcoming Lifelong Learning and Training project, soon to be appraised by the Bank.
- 5 -



Improvement of the secondary education quality. On the qualitative dimension, some of the most
important project achievements are: (a) improving the enabling leaming conditions of the municipal and
private-subsidized secondary schools through significant investments in texts, learning resource centers and
computer laboratories; (b) strengthening the participation and commitment of teachers and students in the
process of educational change, primarily through the on-site peer in-service teacher training groups
(explained in 4.2 below); and (c) aligning the provision of textbooks, learning resource centers, computer
laboratories, infrastructure, pre- and in-service teacher training, learning assessment and classroom
pedagogy to the revised and approved curriculum.
There were two learning assessments carried out in the 10th grade of secondary education during the life of
the project, while still under the old curriculum framework - one in 1993 and the other in 1998. The
findings of these two measurements point to a significant improvement in mathematics and a slight one in
language. The findings also indicate that the gap between the learning outcomes in municipal secondary
schools and private-paid ones widened in this period. No learning assessments have been made for
secondary education in the curriculum post-review period with the revamped new SIMCE. In November
2001, the first censal assessment for grade 10 will be carried out and its findings will become the baseline
information. It is expected that in November 2004 the second assessment for graded 10 will be carried out.
At that time (on or about 2005), the impact of the reform with respect to learning will be assessed.
Improvement of the equity in the secondary education system. Based on the available information, and
as explained further below, one conclusion from the ICR mission is that improvements in the private-paid
system (where the project did not intervene at all) were significantly greater than in the other two systems
that the project benefited with its investments (the municipal and the private-subsidized). Undoubtedly,
more experienced and motivated teachers, better learning conditions and resources, more effective and
consistent family support and a more stimulating contextual environment for students attending
private-paid secondary schools, explain in part the significant improvements of the private-paid system
over the municipal and private-subsidized ones during the life of the project. The continued challenge faced
by the Chilean educational authorities to continue reducing these inequities, primarily between the
municipal and private-paid secondary education systems, is currently a high priority in the work program
of the recently established National Secondary Education Coordination Unit (NSECU) within the Ministry
of Education.
Notwithstanding the above ICR conclusion, it seems that the Project also had a significant impact in
reducing some inequities. In 1990, there was a 21 point difference in secondary enrollment between the
14-17 year-old population belonging to the lowest income-quintile and those belonging to the highest
income-quintile (73.3% vs. 94.2%), By 2000, this gap narrowed to 16 points (82.3% vs. 98.5%).
Likewise, the secondary education enrollment gap between the rural and urban areas was reduced from 36
points in 1990 (50.2% vs. 86.5%) to 15.2 points in 2000 (76.8% vs. 92%). In 1993, average dropout rate
in grade 10 in municipal schools was 3.2 times higher than that of private-paid secondary schools (7.7%
compared to 2.4% respectively). In 2000, this ratio decreased to 2.6 times higher for municipal schools.
Similarly, the ratio between private-subsidized and private-paid schools was 2.3 times in 1993 (5.5%
against 2.4% respectively), and decreased to 1.8 times in 2000. The average number of years to complete
the four-year secondary education cycle in municipal schools was 1.3 times higher than the one for
private-paid secondary schools in 1993 (5.73 years against 4.41 years respectively), and decreased to 1.05
times in 2000. The same ratio between private-subsidized and private-paid schools was 1.1 times in 1993
(5 years against 4.41 respectively), and decreased to 1.02 times in 2000.
While recognizing improved equity in some indicators, it worsened in others during project implementation.
For example, the average repetition rate in first grade of municipal secondary schools (grade 9) in 1993
- 6 -



was 3.3 times higher than the one for private-paid schools (17.6% against 5.3% respectively). In 2000, this
ratio increased to 3.8 times higher. This worsening situation is also true for private-subsidized secondary
schools compared to private-paid ones.  In 1993, ninth grade repetition was 2.2 times higher in
private-subsidized schools than private paid (11.8% and 5.3% respectively), and by 2000, the ratio
increased to 2.4 times. The average dropout rate in the entire four-year cycle in municipal schools in 1993
was 3.2 times higher than the one in private-paid schools (41% compared to 11.6% respectively). By
2000, it increased to 4.5 times higher. The situation with respect to this last indicator in private subsidized
schools compared with private-paid improved from 2.3 times in 1993 (26.8% against 11.6% respectively)
to 1.9 times in 2000. The more appropriate enabling learning conditions in the private-paid system explain
in part this slight worsening situation.
Strengthening the managerial capacity in the Borrowver's secondary education system. Five relevant
accomplishment were achieved through the implementation of this component. First, the ME's institutional
structure was modified to manage the educational reform. As explained in sections 4.2 and 4.5 of this
report, a Curriculum and Evaluation Unit (CEU) and a National Secondary Education Coordination Unit
(NSECU) were established in the ME in 1998 and mid-2000 respectively. The CEU was established to
manage the curriculum and leaming assessment revision. The NSECU was established to manage the
mainstreaming of the Bank-financed secondary education project activities at project completion and
continue with their operation, fine tuning and scaling up. Second, the ME built significant additional
capacity to manage the implementation of the education reform, in particular the conversion to the full-day
schedule of basic and secondary public and private-subsidized schools. Third, significant progress was
made to continue decentralizing managerial responsibilities to the regional (SEREMIS) and provincial
(DEPROV) offices of the ME. In the context of the recently approyed Law of Facultades Delegadas,
additional financial managerial responsibilities have been delegated to the school principals to manage
public financial resources allocated to the schools by the ME.  Fourth, the Bank-financed project
contributed to ME's strengthening its normative role in aspects of school construction and acquisition of
school equipment and furniture and provided greater transparency and efficiency to these processes. This
project achievement is of particular importance given the ambitious infrastructure program financed by GC
(outside the project) to convert schools to the full-day schedule.  Finally, through this component,
secondary education school principals were offered the opportunity to strengthen their leadership role.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Curriculum and evaluation. One of the outstanding achievements of the educational reform has been the
curriculum revision from preschool to grade 12. The project supported the curriculum revision in grades 9
to 12. The curriculum reform of grades 9 to 11 has been completed. The curriculum reform for grade 12
is to be approved this year and implemented in 2002. Along with this curriculum reform, a new learning
assessment measuring system was designed, and is now fully functional. This learning assessment system
replaces the old SIMCE and features the following improvements: (i) carries out censal learning assessment
in four curricular areas (math, language, social and exact sciences) instead of only two (math and
language); (ii) is criteria-referenced instead of norm.-referenced; (iii) allows for the establishment of
educational standards; (iv) allows for open-ended responses; and (v) allows for time-comparability between
measures taken in different school years. In addition, Chile participates regularly in international learning
assessments like the TIMSS, the civic education of IEA, and those carried out by the OECD and
OREALC. As explained further in section 4.5, the curriculum and evaluation revision efforts are being
sustained and institutionalized through the establishment in 1998 of the Curriculum and Evaluation Unit
(CEU) within the ME. The challenge facing the CEU now is to: (a) ensure that the curriculum reform is
being implemented accordingly in each classroom of the Chilean education system; (b) continue
strengthening the alignment of other leaming inputs with the ongoing curriculum; and (c) fine tune in the
- 7 -



medium-term (in about five years) the new curriculum and learning assessment scheme based on the
findings emerging from the yearly applications of the revised SIMCE (learning assessment measuring
system).
On-site peer in-service teacher training groups (GPT). According to recent independent evaluation
studies (see Avalos, 1999 and Moya, 2001 in Annex 7), the GPTs have become legitimate, school-based,
reflective spaces, used mainly for in-service teacher training purposes. These pedagogical spaces have
been established and are fully functional in about 1,200 municipal and private-subsidized secondary
schools (about 90% of their universe). Over 25,000 secondary education teachers, working in almost
2,500 GPTs, meet regularly to implement the new curriculum and assessment scheme, and to use
effectively all learning inputs provided by the project (textbooks, leaming resource centers, computer
laboratories, school-based quality improvement projects). The GPTs are also utilized for subject-based
training, to produce institutional development plans and school self-evaluation schemes. For a school to
change to the full-day schedule, a pedagogical institutional plan explaining on how the school is going to
utilize the additional time, needs to be produced and approved by the ME. These pedagogical institutional
plans are conceived by school stakeholders within the context of the GPTs. Thus the existence of a fully
functional GPT becomes a necessary condition for the school conversion to the full-day schedule. GPTs
have been also used by participating teachers to disseminate their pedagogical experiences and good
teaching practices (Pdginas Didacticas). Finally, a network including thematic 100 GPTs with about 15
secondary education teachers each, has been established to support the in-service teacher training activities
in the corresponding curricular thematic areas. Notwithstanding all of the above accomplishments, the ICR
mission is of the view that fuller potential and synergy could have been achieved from this project
sub-component throughout the life of the project and thus it granted an S rating.
Learning resources. All the public and private subsidized secondary schools are incorporated into the
learning computer network financed by the project (Red Enlaces). Each secondary education computer
laboratory includes an average of seven PCs, two printers and current pedagogical software for the use of
students and teachers. All the computer laboratories established by the project are connected among
themselves in a network with possibilities of free Internet connection with the outside world. The Project
provided 9,204 PCs and 2,390 printers to 1,283 secondary schools. Almost 16,700 secondary education
teachers were trained in how to use the computer laboratory in a creative and flexible fashion to support the
ongoing curriculum reform. Technical and pedagogical support for the computer network is provided by
16 regional universities. The Project also provided 2.8 million textbooks of excellent quality and low-price
and aligned with the new curriculum. During the earlier stages of project implementation, textbooks were
provided in three curricular areas (language, mathematics and English). By project completion, textbooks
were also provided in four additional curricular areas (Biology, Physics, Chemistry and History/Social
Sciences) for a total of seven. This is a significant contribution of the Project, given that before 1995, no
secondary education textbooks were, in general, available to students from public and private subsidized
schools. Every project school was also provided with a multimedia Learning Resource Center (CRAs)
including library books, newspapers, magazines, videos and educational software. This component
developed two Catalogs comprising the most pertinent supply of learning resources available both in Chile
and abroad. These Catalogs facilitated teachers participation in selecting a significant part of the inventory
of textbooks and learning resources of their CRAs. The Project provided teacher training for the effective
utilization of these learning inputs.
Infrastructure. This Project intervention successfully provided the infrastructure required to meet the
quality improvement efforts. The infrastructure sub-component financed by the project was targeted to the
municipal secondary schools, which are generally in a higher risk category than the private subsidized ones.
A total of 538 municipal secondary schools were either rehabilitated and/or benefited with additional
- 8 -



classrooms financed under the project. These additional classrooms included: (a) the computer laboratory;
(b) the learning resource center; and (c) the teachers' meeting room. School equipment and school furniture
was provided to 1,300 project secondary schools. School symbols were provided to 1,046 secondary
schools. The 13 Regional Educational Offices implemented this project intervention. Alongside this
project sub-component, GC addressed with its own financial resources the: (i) historic infrastructure deficit
in secondary education; (ii) expected secondary education coverage expansion; and (iii) the conversion of
schools to the full-day schedule.
School-based quality improvement projects (PMEs). Based on the successful scheme developed under
the Bank-financed Chile: Primary Education Loan (exported to other countries worldwide), the project
financed and implemented 1,108 PMEs of about US$10,000 each. Approved PMEs had a duration of
between two to three years. These projects, fully designed and implemented by school teachers and
principals through the GPTs, generated a pedagogical space by which school stakeholders addressed quite
effectively, quality issues related to their school (see Duarte, 2001, in Annex 7). Currently, it is also
instrumental in increasing teacher's self-esteem and student's motivation, and thus, learning performance,
as evidenced by different independent evaluation studies (listed in Annex 7).
Extra curricular activities for at-risk students. About 40 percent of the enrollment in public and
private-subsidized secondary schools (300,000 students) participated in this project intervention. This
project subcomponent provided at risk-students with the opportunity to foster a more constructive use of
their free time, thus reducing the likelihood for them to get involved in criminal activities and/or increase
their probability of dropping out from school (see PIIE, 1997, CIDES, 2000 and ECO, 1997 in Annex 7).
This intervention included curricular programs in arts, environment, sports, preventive health (especially
concerning AIDS, teenage pregnancy and drugs), video-clubs, student leadership development, and
communication. The extra-curricular activities were proposed and managed by the participating students.
The impact of this project sub-component was uneven among participating schools. In a significant
number of participating schools these extra curricular activities provided positive synergy and contributed
to the improvement of the school internal dynamics. In other participating schools the impact was
negligible. For these uneven impact, the ICR mission granted an S rating to this project-subcomponent.
Technical assistance. The project provided each project school a fund of about US$2,500 for acquiring
qualified technical expertise to address in situ their perceived relevant school issues. A total of 1,239
project secondary schools made use of this technical assistance. Technical assistance financed by the
project was mainly used to further facilitate the implementation of the revised curriculum in the schools.
According to an external evaluation study (see Mena and Cereceda, 1999 in Annex 7), the absence of a
strategy to educate the "demand" in purchasing "appropriate" technical assistance was, probably, the
relevant weakness underpinning the mixed impact results of this project intervention which caused the ME's
to discontinue this experience at project completion. Many participating secondary schools ended up
buying what the market had to offer regardless of their quality-related needs. The project never built a
strategy to build learning capacity on the demand-side. The evaluation findings also show that the project
did not established an appropriate monitoring system to follow-up on the quality and pertinence of the
technical assistance provided by the "expert" suppliers. Most of the technical assistance being provided
was never fully integrated with other project-financed interventions, thus synergy was rarely achieved. For
all of the above reasons, the ICR mission granted this project sub-component an unsatisfactory (U)
implementation rating.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
-9-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project built significant capacity within the ME to support the implementation of the educational
reform initiated at the end of 1996 in four fronts. First, the Curriculum and Evaluation Unit (CEU) was
established in 1998 as a consequence of the project. The CEU is fully staffed with qualified professionals,
some of them trained while they were associated with the implementation of the Bank-financed primary
education project. As explained before, the CEU has been instrumental in successfully carrying out the
thorough curriculum and learning assessment revision from preschool to grade 12.
Second, mid-way in 2000, ME established the NSECU to continue implementing the different project
activities and provide the conditions for their further scaling. The NSECU is also fully staffed with
qualified professionals, most of them trained during implementation of this project. The main challenges
facing the NSECU are to: (i) ensure universal access to secondary education to (all) primary education
graduates; (ii) continue reducing the repetition and drop out rates, especially among students coming from
low-income families; (iii) continue strengthening the quality and pertinence of secondary education in the
light of the revised curriculum; and (iv) continue piloting and evaluating innovations in the 51 experimental
secondary schools (Liceos Montegrande).
Third, ME built significant capacity to manage other dimensions of the education reform, in particular, the
conversion of basic and secondary schools to the full-day schedule. As explained before, ME strengthen its
normative role associated with school construction and acquisition of school equipment and furniture
aspects of the reform.
Fourth, at the school level, as explained elsewhere in this report, the project provided the basic working
conditions for participating public and private subsidized secondary schools to effectively improve their
performance.   Secondary  schools  have  now  a  menu  of proven  options  (interventions) and
related-information available to them to address their issues of inefficiency (access, repetition and droop
out rates) as well as of ineffectiveness (lack of quality of education). The Law of Facultades Delegadas
allows school principals to manage some-specific school-related financial resources. The project provided
technical support to improve the leadership role of school principals. The project also contributed to
creating the conditions for greater community and stakeholder participation in addressing school-related
issues. Independent evaluations carried out by reputable third party institutions (see list in Annex 7) have
shown that in many secondary schools (certainly not all) there is already a visible significant change in
classroom pedagogical transactions (one of the principal goals of the curriculum revision).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None negatively affecting project implementation to the awareness of the ICR mission. The political
stability of the three elected governments of the Concertaci6n since 1990 has, on the contrary, supported
the continuity of educational policies and strategies set by these Governments in the last 11 years. In
addition, the stability of key qualified and seasoned project-related senior and junior personnel who have
remained in the ME, and the social consensus of the importance of addressing secondary education issues,
have also contributed greatly to the success of this project.
- 10 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Three important government-controlled factors hindered project implementation during the first two years
of the implementation cycle. First, the project operated under the traditional set of norms and regulations in
the education sector which were not necessarily attuned to the project's operational logic. These set of
outdated norms, certainly in out-of-kilter with the goals and strategies of the changing process, significantly
delayed project implementation in its early stages. Some key project interventions, like the school-based
quality improvement projects (PMEs) and the peer in-service teacher training (GPTs), required
paid-pedagogical time for teachers to interact as a peer group. The current Teacher Statute only allows for
two paid hours every two weeks for teachers to engage as peers. This turned out to be insufficient in many
cases for teachers to have effective and productive interaction. Those secondary schools that entered into
the full-day school schedule starting in 1998 (about 33% of the total), and who tripled the legal paid-time
for peer interaction, achieved the appropriate enabling conditions to implement some of the project's
interventions at their fullest potential.
Second, a reform process requires robust institutions and appropriate managerial capacity for its effective
implementation. The Bank-financed primary (starting in 1992) and secondary education (starting in 1995)
projects contributed to the political enactrnent of an education reform in Chile in 1996. One of the
objectives of the education reform was to carry out a thorough curriculum and learning assessment
revision.  The absence of an institutional unit within the Ministry of Education responsible for
implementing the curriculum revision slowed this process during 1996 and 1997. The issue was effectively
addressed in 1998 with the establishment of a Curriculuim and Evaluation Unit (CEU) in the Ministry of
Education.
Another important objective of the education reform was tlo promote the conversion to the full-day schedule
of the entire basic and secondary public and private-subsidized education system by 2003 (Jornada
Completa). The conversion required the school to first establish a GPTs to develop a pedagogical
institutional plan on how the additional time was to be utilized and identify the physical (space) and human
(teachers) constraints to implement the full-day schedule pedagogical plan. Once the plan was approved,
authorization for conversion to the full-day schedule was granted by the ME through its regional authorities
(SEREMIS). In many cases, the conversion required the construction of additional classrooms to be
financed by GC. The lack of appropriate managerial capacity in the ME to support the establishment,
operation and monitoring of GPTs and of the SEREMIS to review and approve conversion pedagogical and
construction plans, significantly delayed the implementation of the Jomada Completa. This delay made it
necessary to amend the Jomada Completa Law and extend the completion of this process from 2003 to
2006. By the time of project completion, only 25% of the public and private subsidized secondary schools,
encompassing 35% of total secondary education enrollment, has successfully converted to the full-day
schedule.
Finally, public (municipalities) and private subsidized secondary school owners (sostenedores) were not
fully responsive at the earlier stages of project implementation to carry out their envisaged responsibilities,
such as, inter-alia, the timely disbursement of project proceeds to finance approved PMEs, as well as their
financial complementary contribution required with the operation of several project interventions (computer
laboratories, the extra-curricular activities and the peer in-service teacher training). Only starting mid-way
through project implementation, and after a thorough effort to bring them into the project, did project
ownership by school owners gradually improve. One additional strategy to continue increasing school
owners participation in the educational change brought about the educational reform was the enactment of
Articles 21 to 26 of the Law 19.410 concerning the transferring of delegated responsibilities to the school
- 11 -



principals to allow them the management of certain public financial resources (Ley de Facultades
Delegadas).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Five main factors under the PCU control affected project implementation, especially during the first-half of
the implementation cycle. First, the consulting process with key actors was weak during the 1995-97
period. Sufficient resources and time were not allocated by the PCU during this period to have key project
implementation actors buy into the project's logic. No appropriate stakeholder participatory strategy was
put in place either. For example, teachers and pre-service teacher training institutions (mostly universities)
were not sufficiently consulted during the early stages of the secondary education curriculum revision.
Likewise, and as mentioned before, public and private subsidized secondary school-owners were not
appropriately brought into the implementation process during this period. This lack of appropriate
consulting and participatory processes did not ensure sufficient ownership by key concerned project
stakeholders. These issues were satisfactorily addressed in the second-half of the implementation cycle,
mainly as a result of the continuous supervision mission findings and recommendations, as attested in the
corresponding Aide-Memoires. As a consequence, ownership by key stakeholders was strengthened.
Second, there was not an appropriate gauging of the various project sub-components and activities during
the implementation phase. Insufficient diagnosis made during project preparation with respect to the
implementation capacity of the different project implementation entities conveyed the erroneous impression
that all the activities could be implemented at once. No capacity built up strategy was incorporated in the
project design. As a consequence, a significant number of project implementation entities became very
quickly saturated and practically unable to implement their envisaged project activities in a timely fashion.
This situation was addressed starting the third year of project implementation by building implementation
capacity in the corresponding implementation entities and gauging more appropriately the arrival of the
menu of project interventions accordingly.
Third, the specific political conditions of Chile made it necessary to revise the curriculum of basic and
secondary education independently (in two time periods and by two different groups). The basic education
curriculum revision was made in the 1990-96 period, while the secondary education revision started at the
end of 1996 and concludes this year. As a consequence of these two independent processes, there are some
curricular overlapping in the different subject areas (especially in math and language) between the 8th (last
grade of primary education) and 9th (first grade of secondary education) in need of further addressing in
the future.
Fourth, the curriculum revision was carried out by a designing team comprising thematic experts (drawn
from reputable universities and research centers) and seasoned classroom teachers, school principals and
supervisors (drawn from both urban and rural, public and private subsidized secondary schools). During
the ICR mission, the CEU noted that a better working equilibrium between these two groups would have
resulted in a much more pertinent curriculum. Tilting the revision process to the side of the thematic
experts would have resulted in a very sophisticated curriculum most likely out of reach by the practitioners
(teachers). However, leaning the revision to the side of the teachers, would have probably preserved the
curriculum traits that the revision process aimed at modifying. The challenge lying ahead is to further
fine-tune the curriculum revision based on the findings of the learning assessments to achieved the desired
equilibrium.
Finally, insufficient legal and regulatory adjustments were undertaken, particularly regarding paid-peer
effective time allowed by the Teacher's Statute.
- 12-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$207 million equivalent, out of which US$35
million equivalent would be IBRD-funded (16.9 percent) and the balance, US$172 million equivalent,
GC-funded (83.1 percent). At the time of the ICR mission, GC had disbursed US$153.08 million
equivalent, amounting to 74 percent of the total project cost. IBRD disbursements amounted to US$23.02
million equivalent (66 percent of the total loan), while Borrower's disbursement amounted US$130.06
million equivalent (75.6 percent of the total expected counterpart funding). During project implementation,
US$11.8 million were cancelled at the Borrower's request (33.7 percent of the total loan) and US$178,000
were reimbursed to the Bank at project completion.
Despite spending 26 percent less than expected at appraisal, no project goals were sacrificed or decreased.
On the contrary, as fully explained elsewhere in this report, all of the project objectives were achieved, and
in some cases, even exceeded. These costs savings emerged mainly from: (i) project leaming provided by
several mid-way project implementation evaluations carried out by extemal qualified institutions and/or
individuals; (ii) efficiency in the management of project resources; and (iii) economies of scale, especially
in the case of the acquisition of computers and peripheral equipment.
An explanation follows of the differences between the expected total expenditure by category at the time of
appraisal and real expenditure at project completion as further shown in Annex 2, especially of the three
items financed by the Loan: (i) computers, software and peripheral equipment; (ii) PMEs; and (iii) PCU.
Total expenditure for the acquisition of computers, software and peripheral equipment amounted to US$11
million, 35 percent less than the expected US$16.85 million (to be financed 100 percent by the Loan). This
project activity exceeded its original targets set in the project design negotiated with the Bank in 1995. An
efficient computer procurement process achieved economies of scale, and thus, lowered unit prices from
those estimated at appraisal.
Total expenditure in the implementation of PMEs amounted to US$9.02 million, 63 percent less than the
expected US$24.38 million (to be financed by both, the Loan and GC). This significant difference stems
from four reasons. First, the original target of 2,000 PNIEs during the life of the project, estimated at
appraisal, was based on an overestimation of project secondary schools (1,600). Given the real universe of
1,343 project schools (33 percent less than the original estimated), only 1,108 PMEs (55.4 percent of the
original PMEs estimated at appraisal) were financed by the project. Second, the implementation timing
was delayed by one year with respect to the original timing estimated at appraisal. This delay was
generated by the fact that participating schools needed a fully functional GPT before engaging in designing
and proposing a PME. Third, the average unit PME amount to be allocated to eligible schools estimated at
appraisal was much larger than the real one allocated during project implementation. Finally, the costs
estimated at appraisal did not take into account that the PMEs which were authorized during 1999 and
2,000 (one before the last and last years of project implementation), required financing for two years
(beyond the project's closing date). The GC has addressecl this last issue, by authorizing in the Ministry of
Education's 2001 budget, US$1.683 million to finance the completion of these PMEs.
Total expenditure in the PCU amounted to US$10.47 million, 34.9 percent more than the expected
US$7.76 million (US$2.31 million from the Loan and US$5.45 million from GC). The establishment of
the CEU in 1998 to proceed with the curriculum and leaming assessment revision required the technical
assistance of several thematic groups consisting of qualified experts and seasoned teachers which were
financed by the project. Concurrently with the PCU expenditure, the total amount spent on curriculum and
assessment of US$2.36 million, was 67 percent less than the original estimated at appraisal of US$7.12
- 13-



million. Once the CEU was formally established in 1998, the expenditure associated with the curriculum
and leaming assessment revisions were made, with the Bank's no objection, against the PCU category of
the Loan.
Total expenditure in infrastructure, including school furniture and equipment, was US$29.36 million, 40
percent less than the expected at appraisal of US$48.89 million (to be financed 100 percent by GC). This
project sub-component achieved its original targets in 1998 at unit costs much lower than those estimated
at appraisal. In addition, the GC supported this project activity with complementary funding from outside
project sources. Total expenditure in the acquisition of learning inputs (texts and multimedia resource
centers) amounted to US$67.06 million, 9 percent less than the estimated at appraisal of US$73.51 million
(to be financed 100 percent by GC). This project sub-component achieved its original targets at lower unit
costs than those estimated at appraisal.
Total expenditure associated with the in-service teacher training amounted to US$6.81 million, 30.4
percent less than the estimated at appraisal of US$9.79 million (to be financed 100 percent by GC). Total
expenditure in the extra-curricular activities of US$13.37 million was 15.4 percent less than the estimated
at appraisal of US$15.81 million (to be financed 100 percent by GC). In both cases, initial delays in their
implementation and lower unit prices as compared with the ones estimated at appraisal, explain the
variations.
Finally, total expenditure in technical assistance to secondary schools - the only project activity not to be
sustained by GC at project completion (as explained in several parts of this report) - amounted to US$3.62
million, 24.9 percent more than the estimated US$2.9 million at appraisal (to be financed 100 percent by
GC). The difference is explained by the larger number of secondary schools (1,239) making use (not
necessarily in an effective fashion) of the technical assistance fund than expected at appraisal.
Since the Bank Loan financed only three categories (computers, PMEs and the PCU), the explanation given
above with respect to computers and school-based quality improvement projects, explains the request by
GC in 2000 to cancel US$11.8 million of the Loan.
The Borrower submitted the project's yearly Audit Reports on time during the entire project implementation
cycle including the one for CYOO. All the Audit Reports were unqualified (clean). The minor observations
made by the auditors were timely and effectively addressed by the Borrower as attested by the different
supervision missions and registered in the corresponding Aide-memoires, PSRs and Back-to-Office
Reports. At the time of the drafting of this ICR, the ME and the Contraloria General de la Republica (the
project's external auditors) were following up on some observations made by the Bank while reviewing the
Audit report corresponding to CYOO. The Audit Report corresponding to the first semester of CYOI
(before project closure) will be delivered to the Bank in the first semester of CY02.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ICR mission has given the GC a HS rating concerning project sustainability. Similar to the closing of
the previous primary education Bank-financed project in Chile in 1998, the GC has technically and
financially sustained, all, but one sub-component of this secondary education project. From the financial
sustainability dimension, the CG has allocated US$15.415 million in the ME's CYOI budget for sustaining
the interventions designed, tested, evaluated and then scaled up during the life of the project. This is a clear
sign of the political importance and relevancy GC has assigned to the continued improvement of its
- 14 -



education system as a means for the country's social and economic development. The sustainability of this
project is being carried out in the context of a long-term education reform, currently under implementation.
As explained in section 4.2 of the ICR, the preliminary findings of the evaluations carried-out with respect
to the provision of a school-based technical assistance fund show, that in spite of having overspent 24.9
percent more than expected at the appraisal time, the impact of this sub-component in improving the
school's performance is not so obvious (see Mena and Cereceda, 1999 in Annex 7). For this reason, GC
decided no to continue implementing this sub-component at project completion.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Mid-way project implementation the Borrower came to an understanding with the Bank concerning a
strategy to technically sustain project activities at project completion. Accordingly, the ME establish the
CEU in 1998 and the NSECU in mid-2000 to ensure the continuity of all, but one, of the project activities.
CEU is responsible for curriculum, leaming assessment, multimedia resource centers and provision of
texts. Provisionally, the CEU is also in charge of the Red Enlaces. To carry out these envisaged activities,
out of the US$15.41 million allocated in ME's CYOI budget to sustain project activities, US$11.82 million
have been authorized for the CEU and another US$3.6 imillion to the NSECU. The NSECU, which is
accountable to the Division of General Education (DGE) of the ME, is responsible for the GPTs and other
project-related activities to continue addressing the issues of efficiency, quality and equity of secondary
education. Other areas of the DGE will be responsible for the PMEs and the extra-curricular activities for
at-risk students. Also, as mentioned in other parts of this report, the CEU, NSECU and DGE are staffed
with qualified staff to carry out these activities in a timely, efficient and effective manner.
In addition, as explained elsewhere in the ICR, the ME built significant managerial capacity at the central,
regional and institutional (school) levels to continue implementing the education reform with respect to: (i)
conversion to the full-day schedule; (ii) improvement of the pre and in-service teacher training system; and
(iii) fostering educational innovations at the secondary education in the 51 Liceos Montegrande.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. ] Lending:
The Bank team assisting in the preparation process displayed a sound knowledge of the sector issues
addressed by the project, including the need for: (i) increased access, especially among lower-income
primary education graduates; (ii) improved internal efficiency to reduce repetition and dropout rates as well
as average time to complete the four-year secondary education cycle; (iii) improved effectiveness (quality)
with respect to leaming outcomes; (iv) improved equity; and (v) improved school management and
pedagogical leadership, especially from the school principals and heads of school-thematic sections. With
the exception of the identification mission, the entire preparation process until effectiveness was under the
responsibility of one Bank task manager. The former identification task manager was a permanent member
of the Bank's preparation team under a new task team leader. The Bank team maintained a close
relationship with the Borrower and carried out a frank policy dialogue discussion with the education
authorities during the preparation process. Technical assistance drawn from a pool of worldwide reputable
experts was provided by the Bank.  The Bank perfornance during project preparation is ranked
satisfactory by the ICR mission because: (i) further diagnosis was needed to assess the implementation
capacity displayed by the different project entities to ensure a more appropriate phasing of the arrival of the
project activities; and (ii) the original project design was too rigid expecting that one model would fit all. It
- 15-



is the view of the ICR mission that these two project preparation weaknesses delayed project
implementation during the early phases of the project's life.
7.2 Supervision:
A total of eight supervision missions were carried out until the closure of the project. Only two Bank task
managers were in charge of the entire supervision period. One of them was also responsible for the
preparation phase and the concluding supervision missions. This continuity in Bank task management
ensured consistency and a high degree of follow up on supervision missions' recommendations. It also
helped to continue building the already good working relationship with the Borrower. Bank supervision
missions were characterized by substantive recommendations for both, implementation processes as well as
project design substance. One important recommendation was to carry out impact evaluation studies of
each one of the project sub-components mid-way project implementation. These studies were contracted
with qualified external institutions and/or individuals following Bank guidelines. As mentioned in 3.4,
better targeting (through tailored-made interventions in 400 high risk secondary schools) and performance
indicators emerged from these studies in 1999. The Bank supervision missions also played a proactive role
anticipating in several instances, the occurrence of various project implementation issues. One example of
a proactive mission was the one carried out in May 1997 where a strategy was defined to ensure project
support to the implementation of the Education Reform (launched in 1996). Another example of this
proactive approach by the Bank supervision missions is GC's decision to join in 1999, both the
International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA) and the Third International
Learning in Science and Mathematics (TIMSS) measurements. A final example of this proactive role
played by the Bank refers to Chile's strengthening its technical linkages with OECD countries, in particular
with reference to technical secondary and professional education. These strengthening efforts were initiated
with a lifelong learning international workshop in Santiago in 1999, including the participation of
international renowned experts in this field, and will conclude with a possible Lifelong Learning and
Training Project to be financed by the Bank, currently to be appraised in November 2001.
Concurrently with the project supervision missions, and under separate terms of reference, the Bank
seconded a senior education specialist to Chile for 18 months, to further supporting the reform
implementation. As a consequence of this Bank supervision effort, and in conjunction with other mid-way
evaluation studies, the Borrower was able to address in an effective fashion the: (i) implementation delays
at the early stages of the project cycle; (ii) initial rigidity of the project design by making it more flexible
and attuned to the diverse characteristics of different project secondary schools; (iii) implementation of the
education reform, in particular the curriculum and learning assessment revisions, the conversion of schools
to the full-day scheme and the strengthening of pre and in-service teacher training; and (iv) technical and
financial sustainability of project activities. Because the Bank supervision missions were effective in
assisting the Borrower address implementation issues, the ICR mission ranks the Bank supervision
performance as highly effective.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the above explanation, the ICR mission ranks the overall Bank performance as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Five commendable preparation activities contributed to building a solid project design. First, the prior
Bank-financed project in primary education included a component to undertake key studies in secondary
- 16 -



education. A total of thirteen studies were contracted and. carried out by reputable institutions, research
centers and/or individual consultants between 1992 and 1994 (see list in Annex 7). These studies included
the following themes: curriculum, pedagogical transactions, school socialization, pre- and in-service teacher
training, learning assessment, supervision systems, economic analysis and secondary education demand.
Second, a national survey was carried out among 35,000 secondary education stakeholers in 1993 to assess
their perception of the relevant secondary education issues as well as to register their opinion about
possible solutions. A document summarizing the findings and recommendations of this national survey was
published and widely disseminated. Third, an international workshop on comparative secondary education
including some of the most respected worldwide reputable experts was carried out in Santiago in November
of 1992. Fourth, a study tour including representatives from the Ministry of Education, the teachers union,
in-service teacher training institutions and the private sector as well as the Bank, was undertaken to Korea,
Malaysia and Singapore during mid-1992 to assess their secondary education systems. Finally, a pilot
program to test four project interventions, totally financed by GC, was carried out in 124 high-risk
secondary school in 1994. The lessons learned from this piloting were factored in the project's design.
The original project design creatively combines supply (State top-down) and demand-driven (market
bottom-up) interventions. The top-down (push-type) interventions included curriculum and learning
assessment, supply of textbooks, computer laboratories, learning resource centers and infrastructure. The
bottom-up (pull-type) interventions included peer in-service teacher training, school-based quality
improvement projects, youth extra-curricular activities, and selection of textbooks and some learning
resources by teachers. Finally, through networking, project schools received external technical assistance
by qualified experts and academic institutions.
For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the Borrower preparation performance is ranked by the ICR
mission as highly satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As stated before in this report, the project was prepared. and implemented in a context of political and
educational policy continuity by three democratically elected Governments of the Concertacion (the
Presidents' Aylwin, Frei and Lagos Administration) which included 5 Ministers of Education. The project
benefited from a consistent Government political and financial commitment and support along the entire
project cycle.  Appropriate funding was authorized by the Ministry of Finance to support project
preparation, implementation and sustainability of all, but one, project activities. An education reform from
preschool to secondary school (grade 12) was launched in 1996 with the aim of: (i) implementing a
thorough review of the curriculum and learning evaluation schemes for the above-mentioned educational
levels; (ii) implementing the full-day schedule in all public and private subsidized primary and secondary
schools; (iii) strengthening the pre- and in-service teacher training; and (iv) continue improving the
efficiency, quality and equity of the primary and secondary education, in particular through educational
innovations piloted in the Liceos Montegrande. For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR mission
ranked Government implementation performance as highly satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing,Agency:
The Borrower's performance is ranked by the ICR mission as highly satisfactory. The entire project
implementation cycle reflected a high degree of commitment, creativity and professional excellence by the
PCU staff. Notwithstanding that the PCU was headed by four different coordinators during the life of the
project, continuity of policies and strategies was never affected. Many of the PCU senior staff were
involved in the implementation of the Bank-financed primary education project. The Borrower complied
with all of its legal obligations entered into the Loan Agreement as well as with all the agreements made at
- 17 -



the end of each supervision mission (see table below). Despite some initial tensions of the Borrower with
the Bank concerning the Bank's procedures for the acquisition of computers which was satisfactorily
resolved, the Borrower carried out the acquisition of goods and selection of consultants under the Loan
following Bank procedures. This was attested by a thorough random ex-post procurement review done at
the time of the ICR. A full ex-post procurement review report has been filed in IRIS3's project files.
Audit reports (unqualified/clean) were submitted to the Bank on time. All of the auditors minor
recommendations were followed up by the Borrower in a timely and effective fashion. At the time of the
drafting of this report, GC, through the Contraloria General de la Republica, is following up on some
observations made by the Bank on the Audit Report for CYOO. Even though when the project was
appraised, conformation with LACI was not required, the ICR mission found that the project had an
appropriate, reliable, timely and functional financial and accounting management system.
The PCU conducted skillful communication and professional relationships with other internal and external
government, academic, research and non-governmental organizations involved in project implementation,
moving the program forward and meeting the agreed targets. In summary, the highly effective performance
of the implementing agency contributed to bringing about an organizational cultural change within the ME,
facilitating the actual transfer of project activities to the mainstream institutions at the closing of the
project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The ICR mission ranked the overall Borrower performance as highly satisfactory because: (i) the Borrower
implemented the project in an effective fashion as all the project objectives were achieved, and in some
cases, exceeded; (ii) the Borrower executed the project in an efficient fashion doing more with less
resources; (iii) a learning system (through several mid-way evaluations studies conducted by external
qualified institutions and/or individuals) was incorporated by the Borrower during project implementation
allowing for design flexibility and appropriate fine tuning to adjust to the realities of the different project
implementation entities; and (iv) all, but one of the project activities (technical assistance to schools), have
been financially and technically sustained by the Borrower at project's closure.
Table of Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/  Covenant   Present Status     Original      Revised       Description of     Comments
Section     Type                       Fulfillment   Fulfillment      Covenant
Dates        Dates
2.01        2       Complied with  January 29, 1996  February 6,  Amount and currency  Borrower
modifications                   1996          of the Loan       requested
conversioni of
Loan terms
2.03         5         Complied      June 30, 2001                 Closing date
2.04         2         Complied    January 29, 1996             Commitment charge  _
2.05         2       Complied with  January 29, 1996  February 6,  Interest rates      Borrower
modifications                   1996                             requested
conversion of
Loan terms
2.06         2         Complied    January 29, 1996             Period of payments of
interest and other
charges
- 18-



3.01         10          Complied      December 31,                     Borrower's
2000                       commitment to
implement the project
according to the
project description
provided in Schedule
2 to the Loan
Agreement
3.02         10          Complied      December 31,                     Borrower's
2000                       commitment to
implement the
project's procurement
activities according to
Bank guidelines
3.03         13       To be complied   December 31,                                          Project
with            2001                                            Completion
Report
3.04          5          Complied    January 29, 1996                Establishment of a
Project Coordination
Unit during the life of
the project
3.05         10          Complied      June 30, 1996                Borrower prepares a
project
implementation
progress report no
later than June 30 of
each year of project
implementation
3.06         10       Complied with   July 29, 1998     June 10,   Carrying out a mid-term   Slow delay of
modifications                      1999     review and implement      project
the recommendations   implementatio
emerging from its    n activities and
findings         allowing for
sufficient time
for them to
show
observable
impacts
4.01          2          Complied      June 29, 1997                    Audit reports
6.01         10         Complied    January 29, 1996,                   Conditions of
effectiveness
Schedule l       3        Complied with                                Re-allocation of Loan     At the
modifications                                     proceeds           Borrower' s
request, the
Bank approved
on November
29, 2000 to
reallocate
US$3.5 million
from Category
2 (Grants) to
Category 3
___________________________________________  (Consultants)
- 19-



Covenant type: 1: Accounts/audit; 2: Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3: Flow and
utilization of Project funds; 4: Counterpart funding; 5: Management aspects of the Project or of its executing
agency; 6: Environmental covenants; 7: Involuntary resettlement; 8: Indigenous people; 9: Monitoring, review and
reporting; 10: Implementation; I 1: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12: Sectoral or
cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13: Other
8. Lessons Learned
During preparation to appraisal stage:
(a)    Need to combine supply (State) and demand-driven (market) interventions.  The project's
highly successful implementation was based on an effective combination of top-down, bottom-up and
networking interventions. The top-down (push-type) interventions included curriculum and learning
assessment, supply of textbooks, computer laboratories, learning resource centers and infrastructure. The
bottom-up (pull-type) interventions included peer in-service teacher training, school-based quality
improvement projects, youth extra-curricular activities, and selection of textbooks and learning resources
by teachers. Finally, through networking, project schools received external technical assistance from
qualified experts and academic institutions.
(b)    Need timely (appropriate) project implementation gauging. Even though enough secondary
studies were undertaken during project preparation (see list in Annex 7), sufficient information was not
gathered about the capacity of different project entities implementing the project. This, combined with the
Borrower's interest to implement too much too fast, resulted in many project implementation entities being
unable to carry out their envisaged tasks. This saturation effect was effectively addressed mid-way project
implementation, by gauging the arrival of project interventions to particular schools and by making the
project interventions more flexible to accommodate each schools particular characteristics.
(c)    Need to include appropriate targeting criteria and performance indicators at the onset of
project implementation.   As a consequence of continuous recommendations from  several Bank
supervision missions, the Borrower included late in the project (1999), appropriate targeting criteria and
performance indicators in the project design in 400 high-risk secondary schools. As a result, and as
explained in more detail elsewhere in the report, equity in the secondary education system was improved at
project completion.
(d)    Need for a flexible design. The early stages of project implementation were characterized by a
rigid design aimed at fitting all situations. As a consequence, project implementation was delayed. The
several evaluations conducted by external reputable and qualified institutions and/or individuals during
project implementation pointed to the need for making the project design more flexible to address the
non-homogeneous characteristics of the beneficiary secondary schools.
During project implementation:
(e)    Ensure enabling conditions. The following five enabling conditions, present throughout the life of
the project, from identification to closure, underpinned the high success of this project: (i) political stability;
(ii) continuity in education policies; (iii) sound macro economic and fiscal policies (ensuring sufficient
financial resources to the project, even at the time Chile was facing the consequences of the Asian
financial/economic crisis); (iv) effective and consistent collaboration and communication between the
Ministries of Financing and Education; and (v) preservation of skilled and seasoned personnel.
- 20 -



(I)    Need to pilot and evaluate before taking to scale.  Both, the primary and secondary
Bank-financed education projects have shown the need to pilot and evaluate given interventions as a means
for a successful scaling process. For example, the piloting of four innovations in a set of 900 high-risk
primary education schools in 1990 enriched the design of the Bank-financed primary education project,
launched in 1992. The Bank-financed primary education project took to scale the 900-school project
innovations and added new ones. The launching in 1994 of a pilot program in 124 high-risk secondary
schools enriched the design of the Bank-financed secondary education project. The secondary education
project scaled these innovations to the remaining 1,340 public and private subsidized secondary schools in
1995 and added new ones. The outcomes of the primary and secondary education projects provided the
basis for the Government to launch the current education reform. The inclusion of an experimental design
comprising a control group, could have strengthened further the piloting.
(g)    Need for robust institutions.  A thorough change process in a complex sector like education,
requires robust institutions, staffed with appropriate qualified and experienced staff. Robust does not mean
overstaffing. The lack of such an entity delayed the curriculum revision during the 1996-1997 period.
(h)    Need for an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. A change process requires a legal
and regulatory framework conducive to enabling effective irnplementation. The secondary education was
initially implemented under a legal and regulatory framework which was not sufficiently attuned to the
project's logic and activities. This lack of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, especially
during the first two years of project implementation, delayed the implementation of some activities. The
lack of sychronicity could be seen, for example, by the current Teacher Statute not allowing for sufficient
teacher's paid-time for peer reflective interactions required in the implementation of various project
activities (PMEs, GPTs, extra-curricular activities). Some teachers found it difficult and discouraging to
participate in such project activities after their regular working hours. The launching of the full-school day
schedule at the beginning of 1997, resolved this issue, but only for those schools which adopted it. Positive
demonstrative effects of these project activities in various schools encouraged many other teachers from
schools not yet adopting the full-day schedule to participate outside their regular paid time.
(i)    Need for building a learning systems. Every project activity was evaluated mid-way project
implementation, or afterwards, by reputable and qualified third-party institutions and/or individuals (see list
in Annex 7). The findings of these evaluations were used to redirect those activities that were encountering
implementation problems.   The findings also provided valuable insights to enrich some of project
activities' original designs thus making them more flexible and attuned to the heterogeneous school
population.  The evaluation studies pointed out project implementation areas in need of further
consideration by the project.
(j)    Ensure ownership at the outset of project implementation. The necessary time and resources
was not allocated by the Borrower during the early stages of project implementation to appropriately ensure
and strengthen stakeholder ownership of project implementation. This was evident with the delays in
disbursing project resources by school owners to finance approved PMEs or pay for the extra monitoring
teacher required in the execution of the school extra-curricular activities. Lack of sufficient ownership was
also obvious by the resistance manifested by some pre-service teacher training institutions selected by the
Borrower to assist in the teacher training in the revised curriculum, a curriculum with which many of these
institutions were not necessarily were familiar. Mid-way through project implementation, and due to the
f,ndings of some evaluation studies, the Borrower corrected course addressing the improvement of
stakeholder project ownership in a more effective fashion.
- 21 -



(k)    Ensure appropriate dissemination and cross fertilization. During the early stages of project
implementation there was insufficient dissemination, integration and cross fertilization among the different
project sub-components resulting in a lack of synergy at the school level. This situation was gradually
corrected as a result of different impact evaluation studies and recommendations of various supervision
missions.
(1)    Need for a timely conceived exit strategy. Though the implementation of the project required
parallel structures during the first half of the implementation cycle, appropriate exit and transferring
strategies were put in place by the Borrower starting in 1998. The establishment of the CEU in 1998 and
of the NSECU mid-2000 are two concrete examples of this successful exit strategy. Mainstreaming of
project activities ought to be part of project design and thinking along these lines needs to take place at the
outset of project implementation, even though the actual transferring process may take place at later stages.
Mainstreaming is a complex task, requiring the reconciliation of two different operational cultures which,
in general, tend to clash - that of the receiving entities with that of the transferring entities. Resolving these
tensions requires substantial time, resources, technical support and appropriate transferring strategies.
(m)    Bank project management. Part of the project success lies in the fact that the Bank ensured
continuity in the management and supervision throughout the life of this project, from preparation to
closure. With the exception of the identification mission (led by a third task manager actively participating
throughout the entire life of this project), only two task managers were assigned during the period covering
from preparation (1992) to closure (mid 2001). As a consequence, Bank management ensured that the
recommendations of one mission were followed up by the next one.
At project completion:
(n)    Need for continued and consistent addressing of pending issues in the education sector. As
mentioned in section 4.1 of this report, despite the efforts and investments financed by this project, some
inequities worsened throughout the life of the project, mainly due to exogenous factors benefiting
private-paid secondary schools (outside the project's interventions) over the municipal and private
subsidized ones. This crude reality points to the fact that the achievement of project objectives after
completion, even in a successful case like Chile, is not a finished agenda. Furthermore, the achievements
require continued, sustained and substantial sector investments in order to maintain and strengthen them.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Issues: In the beginning of the 1990s, Chile's education system was characterized by a strong increase in
enrollment, which was accompanied by a deterioration in its quality, equity and efficiency. With the
re-establishment of democracy, education became a priority, and was recognized as one of the principal
tasks for developing the nation. In this context, the Bank-financed secondary education project (known as
MECE-Media Program) targeted curriculum change, enriching it and making it more relevant, as well as
substantially improving access to information and knowledge, engendering change management in high
schools boards, pedagogical and evaluation methods of teachers, and aligning the system more with the
social, cultural and productive surroundings relevant to youths.
Most important project achievements include: (a) improving of physical conditions in the development of
education, through investments of universal coverage in texts, libraries and educational information; (b)
increasing the participation and commitmnent of the stakeholders, which implies the involvement of teachers
- 22 -



and students in the educational change process; (c) updating the curriculum to the future needs of society,
offering life-long learning; (d) improving teaching methods for secondary education, modifying the
traditional way of holding classes; and (e) improving secondary education coverage in general, as well as
student passing and graduation rates, while there still remains some lag for youths of poor families,
translated into longer school trajectories and less potential of their graduating from secondary.
Follow-up actions at project completion: (a) align pending actions within the ongoing educational reform;
(b) continue supporting the Curriculum and Evaluation Unit that would be responsible for following up on
the implementation and impact of the new curriculum framework and would strengthen the mechanisms for
sustaining it, through a monitoring and learning evaluation system of the material taught; (c) introduce a
cultural change into secondary schools to support educational institutions' ability to auto-evaluate its
management and commit to attaining qualitative results; (d) shift the role of the supervisor from its
traditional administrative role to one providing technical support in pedagogy for school initiatives; and (e)
continue supporting the National Secondary Education Coordination Unit, in addressing pending secondary
education issues, as well as envision and deepen the changes attained up to now.
Lessons Learned consist of: (a) creating diverse strategies needed to deal with the heterogeneity of the
targeted population; (b) ensuring the institutionalization and sustainability of the program from the
beginning; (c) continually reinforcing knowledge sharing processes; (d) gradually increasing the demands
on the target population, so as to not overwhelm them; (f) acquiring better knowledge of the existing market
in order to provide educational goods and services; (g) assuring the coordination and participation of all
stakeholders from the beginning of the change process in order to avoid resistance; and (h) involving
stakeholders in order to legitimize innovations.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
None
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
INDICATORS OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY
1) Repetion at 9th grade              15.03% (1993) reduced to 8.9% (2000)
2) Drop-out nat    s Oth              6 3% (1993) reduced to g.9% (2000)
3) Average secondary school drop-out  6.34% (1993) reduced to 3.9% (2000)
4) Average number of years to complete    32.07% (1993) reduced to 24.8% (2000)
secondary cycle                       5.35 years ( 1993) reduced to 4.95 years
5) Average secondary graduation rate in 4    (2000)
years                      ~~~~~~~~47.9% for cohort 1986-1990 to 51.6% for the
years                                 cohort 1996-2000
INDICATORS OF EDUCATION QUALITY
1) ANCR (Average number of correct    Due to an in-depth secondary education
responses) in mathematics for 10th grade.  curriculum and leaming assessment revision
carried out in the 1997-2002 period, no
2) ANCR in language for 10th grade.   baseline information is available at present.
First, censal measurement in math and
language for grade 1 0th is scheduled for
November 2001 and a second one in 2004.
Comparisons of learning gains (or losses) by
income-decile, by gender, by geographical
region and by type of secondary school will
be available in 2005.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
A revised curriculum emphasizing leaming by
doing, experimenting and querying for grades
9th to 11 is now in place. The revised
curriculum for grade 12 will be in place in
2002.
Along with the curriculum revision, a new
leaming assessment system is now fully
functional. First censal assessment for
grade 4 was carried out in November 2000.
The one for grade IO is scheduled for
November 2001.
All but one project intervention to improve
efficiency, quality and equity of the secondary
education system, as well as the
interventions to strengthen the school
management developed by the project have
been mainstreamed in the regular activities of
the Ministry of Education. The Govemment
of Chile has allocated US$15.4 million in the
Ministry's 2001 budget to ensure the financial
sustainability of these activities.
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Curriculum and evaluation                              6.08            2.36           38.82
Teacher training                                       7.89            6.81           86.31
Leaming resources                                     76.44           76.44             100
Infrastructure                                        39.54           29.36           74.25
School-based quality improvement projects             20.43            9.02           44.15
Extra curricular activities                           13.12           13.12             100
Technical assistance                                   2.47            2.47             100
Project Coordination Unit                              6.62            6.62             100
Total Baseline Cost                                  172.59          146.20
Physical Contingencies                                9.64            6.88           71.35
Price Contingencies                                  24.77            0.00              0
Total Project Costs             207.00          153.08
Total Financing Required             207.00           153.08
Total project cost at closure was 73.95% of the total project cost estimated at appraisal. Total project
baseline cost
at closure was 84.70% of the total project baseline cost estimated at appraisal.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB            NCB          Other'        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          30.65        30.65
(0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      20.25          1.83         0.78          85.97        108.83
(14.93)       (1.35),       (0.57)        (0.00)       (16.85)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         0.00          25.95        25.95
Consultants                  (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00         14.87         14.87
Salaries, operating costs,    (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
transportation and
per-diem
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         24.09          0.00         24.09
Schhol-based quality         (0.00)        (0.00)        (15.83)        (0.00)       (15.83)
improvement projects
(PMEs)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         2.60           0.00         2.60
Project Coordination Unit    (0.00)        (0.00)         (2.31)        (0.00)       (2.31)
Personnel
Total                      20.25          1.83         27.47         157.44       206.99
(14.93)       (1.35)        (18.71)       (0.00)        (34.99)
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NC2 O               :         N.B.F.      Total Cost
N CB       Ot0 her    _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           17.73         17.73
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         16.89           0.29          0.35           65.50         83.03
(10.76)        (0.24)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (11.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           21.34         21.34
Consultants                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           15.47          15.47
Salaries, operating costs,      (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
transportation and
per-diem
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00            8.56           0.00          8.56
Schhol-based quality            (0.00)          (0.00)         (6.67)         (0.00)        (6.67)
improvement projects
(PMEs)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           6.95           0.00          6.95
Project Coordination Unit       (0.00)          (0.00)         (5.35)         (0.00)        (5.35)
Personnel
Total                         16.89           0.29          15.86          120.04        153.08
________________________     (10.76)        (0.24)         (12.02)         (0.00)        (23.02)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estim:ate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
Curriculum and evaluation    0.00   7.12                 0.00       2.36                0.0   33.1
Teacher training          0.00      9.79                 0.00       6.81                0.0    69.5
Learning resources       16.85      73.51                11.00      67.06              65.3   91.2
Infrastructure            0.00      48.89                0.00       29.36               0.0   60.1
School-based quality     15.84      8.54                 6.67       2.35               42.1   27.6
improvement projects
Extra curricular activities  0.00   15.81                0.00       13.37               0.0    84.6
Technical assistance      0.00      2.90                 0.00       3.62                0.0   124.7
Project Coordination Unit    2.31   5.45                 5.35       5.12               231.6   93.9
TOTAL                    35.00     172.00                23.02     130.06              65.8   75.6
Total executed was 74% of total appraised (66% of total Bank Loan and 76% of total expected
counterpart funds)
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal. Therefore, one
was not done at the time of the ICR either. Nevertheless, abundant economic research undertaken in Chile
in the education sector allows for some thoughts along the future challenges facing Chilean society if they
want to compare to other OECD countries.
Chile has made great strides in increasing the secondary eduacation enrollment (grades 9 to 12) of the 14-17
age-group from 78 percent at the outset of the project to 84 percent at closure. It has also made significant
progress in reducing inequities in the secondary education system, as explained elsewhere in this report.
Notwithstanding these accomplishments, there is a substantial gap in terms of educational attainment of
adults. Recent OECD indicators show that educational attainment of Chilean men and women aged 35-44,
at the prime of their working life, is about half of that of other OECD countries. This disparity implies that
even as Chile reaches nearly universal enrollment at the secondary level, it would take as many as 50 years
before Chile can achieve parity with OECD countries in terms of having an adult population with at least a
secondary level of education.
It is now widely accepted that formal education may not be sufficient to provide the skills and abilities
required for the jobs currently in the modem economy. As the OECD Ottawa Report, 2000 recognizes,
trends related to globalization, technological change and changes in employment patterns and work
organization suggest that the training imparted by the education system is not sufficient to impart for the
skills needed for a lifetime of productive work. This is why the GC, based on the success of the
Bank-financed primary and secondary education projects (MECE-Basica and MECE-Media), and the
implementation of MECE-SUP (higher education) is now proposing the implementation of a Lifelong
Learning and Training Program, to be financed by the Bank (soon to be appraised), as a means to close
the above-mentioned gap.  The GC is convinced that without interventions seeking to educate adults
currently in the workforce, it would take an inordinate amount of time for the labor force to achieve
secondary education as a norm.
Finally, the literature of standard economic analysis has proven that increased number of years of
"good-quality and pertinent" education is linked to: higher productivity, higher employability, more rapid
cconomic growth and lower inequality.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/12/1992                   4   Two education specialists, one
project assistant, one economist
03/29/1993                   6   Three education specialists, one
organization specialist, two
economists
08/02/1993                   4   Two education specialists, one
economist, one project assistant
11/01/1993                   5   Two education specialists, one
economist, one teacher training
specialist, one project assistant
05/13/1994                   4   Two education specialists, one
teacher training specialist, one
project assistant
11/09/1994                   2   One education specialist, one
project assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/03/1995                   5   Two education specialists,
one economist, one teacher
training specialist, one
project assistant
03/20/1995                   4   One education specialist, one
lawyer, one procurement
specialist, one disbursement
specialist
Supervision
08/23/1996                    1   One education specialist            S             HS
05/23/1997                    3   Two education specialists, one      S              S
learning assessment specialist
12/23/1997                    1   One education specialist            S              S
06/19/1998                   2   One education specialist, one        S              S
education specialist
12/01/1999                    1   One education specialist            HS            HS
06/18/1999                    4   One education specialist, one
educator, one architect, one
summer intern
- 28 -



01/24/2000                   2   One education specialist, one       HS            HS
educator
01/08/2001                    1   One education specialist           HS            HS
ICR
07/02/2001                   4    One education specialist,          HS            HS
one project implementation
specialist, one financial
management specialist, one
procurement specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               100.1                        284.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     11.8                         43.7
Supervision                               37.4                        194.1
ICR                                        5.6                         28.1
Total                                    154.9                        803.2
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Li Macro policies                           O H  OSU*M  0 N  O NA
Li Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  0 N  O NA
L Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Ei Financial                               O H  *SUOM  0 N  O NA
Ci Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                  O H  *SUOM  0 N  O NA
L Gender                             0 H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)            0 H  OSUOM  0 N  O NA
Li Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
According to the ICR mission, the successful implementation of the education reform  (as reported
elsewhere in this report), constitutes a major sector policy achievement. The reform has also brought about
a substantial accomplishment in physical achievements in terms of additional classrooms to support the
conversion to the full-day schedule of about 25% of the total municipal and private-subsidized secondary
schools in the country.
According to the Poverty and Income Distribution Study carried out by the Bank for Chile in 2000, there
has been a substantial decrease in poverty. According to the information provided to the ICR mission,
there are indications of equity ratios improvements as mentioned in section 4.1 of this report.
There are no gender issues in secondary education in Chile. Females do better on the average than males.
Recent 2000 data shows for example that average repetition in 9th grade among females was 3.46 percent
compared with 5.28 percent for males. Likewise, average dropout rates in 10th grade for female students
was 1.46 percent compared with 2 percent for males.
As explained in section 4.2 of the report, the project strengthened the constructive relationship between the
education and the private productive sectors in the process of revamping the secondary education
curriculum, in particular the one for technical secondary schools. This constructive synergy between these
two, traditionally divorced sectors, has been fully utilized in the preparation of the Lifelong Learning and
Training project, soon to be appraised by the Bank.
As a consequence of the education reform and the technical support provided by the project, the managerial
capacity of the ME has been significantly improved, in particular with reference to the implementation of
the full-day school schedule.
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performaince
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
El Lending                                        OHS Os  OU  OHU
CJ Supervision                                    *HS OS  O U  O HU
El Overall                                        OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
K Preparation                                     *HS OS  O U  O HU
K] Government implementation performance          O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
E] Implementation agency performance              O HS O s  0 U  0 HU
K] Overall                                        OHS Os  O u  O HU
The reasons for the above ranking are fully explained in section 7 of this report. Notwithstanding that one
project activity was rated U (technical assistance to schools) and other two rated S (teacher training and
extra-curricular activities), the overall Borrower performance is rated HS, because: (a) all but one of its
activities have been technically and financially sustained after project completion; (b) all of the project's
development objectives were achieved as attested by the improvements in the intemal and extemal
efficiency, equity and school management strengthened (it remains to be seen if, in 2005, student learning
achievement will have also improved); and (c) by the efficiency in utilizing the project's proceeds.
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-toOffice Report. World Bank.
October 1992.
Initial Executive Project Summary. World Bank. December 1992.
Preparation Missions Terms of Reference, Aide Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
October 1992 - November 1994.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terns of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
September 1994.
Final Executive Project Summary. World Bank. October 1994.
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Reports. World Bank.
January 1995.
StaffAppraisal Report. World Bank. April 11, 1995.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. World Bank. March 24, 1995.
Bank project implementation documents
Aide-Memoires of Various Supervision Mission. World Bank. 1996-2001.
Project Status Reports. World Bank. 1996-2001.
Documents prepared or commissioned by the Borrower during project preparation (1992-1993)
Descripci6n y Evaluaci6n del Proceso de Desarrollo Curricular. Universidad Cat6lica de la
Santisima Concepci6n de Talcahuano. 1992-1993.
La Experiencia Internacional en el Diseuio Curricular de la Estructura del Nivel Medio del Sistema
Educativo. Centro de Investigacion y Desarrollo de la Educaci6n CIDE. 1992-1993.
Demandas Sociales a la Educaci6n Media. Corporaci6n de Promocion Universitaria (CPU) y CIDE.
1992-1993.
Analisis y Evaluaci6n de Modelos de Producci6n y Actualizaci6n Curricular. Universidad de
Santiago de Chile. (USACH).
Propuesta de Disefio Curricular por Liceos de Enseiianza Media en Sectores Rurales. Universidad
de la Frontera, Universidad de Concepci6n, Universidad Austral de Chile. 1992-1993.
Practicas de Trabajo y Socializacion (Enfoque Cualitativo) Programa Interdisciplinario de
Investigaci6n en Educaci6n (PIIE), Universidad Catolica de Temuco, Universidad de la Serena.
- 32 -



1992-1993.
Prdcticas de Trabajo y Socializacion en Estudiantes do Educaci6n Media. Universidad de Chile
1992-1993.
Determinaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Media Chilena. Universidad Cat6lica de Chile.
1992-1993.
Diseno del Modelo de Gesti6n y Supervision de los P'rocesos de Ense,ianza Media Universidad
Cat6lica de Chile y Centro de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de la Educaci6n CIDE. 1992-1993.
Indicadores de Cobertura y Calidad de la Educacion Media Chilena. Universidad Cat6lica De Chile.
1992-1993.
Destino Educativo Laboral de los Egresados de la Ensenanza Media. Universidad Cat6lica.
1992-1993.
Evaluaci6n Econ6mica de la Eficiencia Interna y Externa de la Educaci6n Media y sus Modalidades.
Universidad de Santiago de Chile. (USACH). 1992-1993.
Requerimientos para la Formacion de Profesores. Universidad Cat6lica, Universidad de
Magallanes, Universidad Catolica del Norte, Universidad de Temuco, Universidad de Atacama,
CIDE, Colegio de Profesores.
Documents prepared or commissioned by the Borrower dfuring project implementation (1995-2001)
Estudiantes de Ensehanza Media. Lectura de Libros, Areas de Interes y Evaluacion Biblioteca.
Direcci6n de Estudios Sociales. Universidad Cat6lica. 1995.
Conflicto y Mediaci6n: El Tema de la Convivencia Escolar. CIDE. Ver6nicva Gubbins. 1999.
Efectos de la Jornada Escolar Completa, en el Uso del Tiempo de los Establecimientos de Educaci6n
General Bdsica y Media. CIDE. 2000.
Determinaci6n de Factores Explicativos de Resultados Escolares en Educaci6n Media. Centro de
Economia Aplicada. Depto. De Ingenieria Industrial. Uni'versidad De Chile. Alejandra Mizala 2000.
Focalizaci6n de Becas del Programa Liceo Para Todos: Un Estudio Caso-Control.
Departamento de Salud Puiblica y Departamento de Estadistica Universidad Cat6lica de Chile.
Lorena Correa,; Guillermo Marshall. 2001.
Focalizaci6n de Becas del Programa Liceo Para Todos: UJn Estudio Ecol6gico. Departamento
de Salud Puiblica y Departamento de Estadistica. Lorena Fuentes; Guillermo Marshall. 2001.
Veinte Afios de Politica en Educaci6n Media en Chile (1980-2000). De la Autoregulaci6n del
Mercado al Compromiso Publico. Cristian Bellei, Julio 2000.
Desarrollo Docente en el Contexto de la Institucion Escolar. Los Microcentros Rurales y los Grupos
Profesionales de Trabajo en Chile. Beatrice Avalos. Trabajo presentado en la conferencia "Los
- 33 -



Maestros en America Latina. Nuevas Perspectivas para su Desarrollo y Desempenio", San Jose,
Costa Rica, 1999.
Financiamiento, Incentivos y Reforma Educacional. Pablo Gonzalez. En La Reforma Educacional
Chilen, Juan Eduardo Garcia-Huidobro (editor), Editorial Popular, Madrid, Espana, 1999.
Sistematizaci6n de la Experiencia ACLE en 10 Establecimientos de la Region Metropolitana.
Educaci6n y Comunicaciones (ECO), 1997.
Jornada Escolar Completa. Cecilia Jara, Carlos Concha, Marcos Miranda y Jadille Baza. En La
Reforma Educacional Chilena, Juan Eduardo Garcia-Huidobro (editor), Editorial Popular, Madrid,
Espafia, 1999.
La Politica de Asistencia Tecnica. Una Herramienta para el Cambio. Isidora Mena y Luz Cereceda.
Escuela de Psicologia y el Instituto de Sociololiga de la Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile .
Informe No 20/99, julio 1999.
La Reforma de la Educaci6n Chilena: Contexto, Contenidos, Implementaci6n. Cristian Cox,
MINEDUC, 1997.
La Reforma Educacional Chilena, 1990-1998. Visi6n de Conjunto. Juan Eduardo Garcia-Huidobro.
En La Reforma Educacional Chilen, Juan Eduardo Garcia-Huidobro (editor), Editorial Popular,
Madrid, Espafia, 1999.
Documents prepared or commissioned by the Borrower during project implementation for impact
evaluation purposes (1998-2001)
Evaluacion del Marco Institucional de la Educaci6n Media Tecnico Profesional. El Esquema DL
3166(1980) En Relacion al DFL N 2 ( 1996). Universidad de Chile. Departamento de Economia.
Facultad de Ciencias Econ6micas y Administrativas. 199 7-1998.
Evaluaci6n Intermedia del Programa MECE-Media 1995-1998 CIDE/Universidad Cat6lica,
Facultad de Educaci6n 1998-1999.
Andlisis de Impacto de la Aplicaci6n de la Propuesta Dual en la Educaci6n Tecnico Profesional.
Departamento de Economia de la Universidad de Chile. 1999-2000.
Equipos de Gesti6n y Procesos de Reforma. Carlos Moya y otros. 2001.
Estudio de Evaluaci6n de la Jornada Escolar Completa. Direcci6n de Estudios Sociales. DESUC.
Universidad Cat6lica. 2001.
Informe Final de Evaluaci6n de los PME de la Ensenanza Media en Ejecucion en los Anos
1997-1998. Claudio Duarte Quapper, junio 2001.
Evaluaci6n del Componente Jovenes del Programa MECE-Media. Programa Interdisciplinario de
Investigaci6n Educacional (PIIE), 1997.
- 34 -



Documents prepared by the Bank relating to macro economic and social issues in Chile during
project implementation (1995-2001)
Poverty and Income Distribution in a High Growth Economy: The Case of Chile 1987-98. LCSPP,
The World Bank, draft July 12, 2000.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Comments from the Borrower
1. Secondary education issues addressed by the program. At the end of the eighties, 77% of youths
between 14 and 17 years old had enrolled in the secondary education, a significant increase from the 14
percent in 1960.  With the expansion in enrollment, however, education quality progressively
deteriorated, as seen in the early nineties by problems in the levels of learning, equity and efficiency of
the system, especially in municipal and subsidized private schools. As mass education grew at the
secondary level, its initial design and reason for being came into question. Secondary education
towards the end of the eighties had kept the same institutional structure and curriculum of its original
conception - to prepare an elite class for university studies or to become key employees in the public or
private sectors.
With the reestablishment of democracy in 1990, fundamental issues that had been put on the back
burner could be revised. Education became one of the main priorities. Public debate ensued on the
question of what to teach and how to educate. This debate was reinforced by universal recognition
starting in the early nineties of the importance and value of education, in any development or
modernization process. Just as secondary education attained wide coverage, but was experiencing an
identity crisis due to low quality, the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Program financed by
the Bank was established (MECE-Media), which aimed to use "different strategies combining
guidelines, information, direct investment, incentives and technical support over six years starting in
1995, in a target group of subsidized schools of both modalities".  The various strategies are
synthesized into mechanisms and action plans as outlined below:
Strategies, mechanisms, action plans in MECE-Media Program
Strategy                  Mechanism                  Target Areas
Framework               Regulatory action        Curriculum and learning
assessment
Pedagogical management
Interventions          improvement program
Youth program
Infrastructure
Textbooks
Library
Direct Action             Support systems        Didactic/teaching Materials
(teaching/ learning resources)
Computers
Incentive                   Projects              School-based quality
improvement projects
Technical assistant networks
Support                   Networks             Technical assistance plans
The strategy's design aimed at impacting and changing school management teams, teachers'
pedagogical and evaluative practices, and aligning the system more with the world of youths and the
surrounding social, cultural and work environment.
- 36 -



2. The program's most important achievements. An analysis of the progress and results in the
semester before the Program's end, and based on the "Mid-term Evaluation of the Secondary Education
Quality Improvement Program" by the Center of Investigation and Development of Education (CIDE)
and the Catholic University of Chile, finished in September 1999, are indicated as follows:
Improvement in the enabling conditions in secondary education. One of the most noticeable results of
the work carried out consists in the effort of equipping education establishments with relevant learning
material goods. This task meant first taking numerous institutions out of precarious situations, and
establishing minimum conditions, then later incorporating cutting edge materials and technology. By
the end of the year 2000, all the schools in the country were incorporated into the Enlaces network,
which not only allowed interconnections between them, but also opened the doors to the learning
opportunities available with access to the Internet. Sixteen universities provided technical support and
collaboration on the network. During the period 1997-2000, 2.8 million textbooks were provided for
youths in secondary education. With this, each teacher received textbook especially made to help them
in working with the students. Each school was linked to a Center of Learning Resources (CRA),
essentially a contemporary version of a school library, with book collections, didactic materials,
software programs, videos, newspapers and magazines. The majority of schools developed, or are now
developing school-based quality improvement projects (PME) with support from a competitive fund,
leading to an increase in the level of student learning. Between 1995 and 2000, the Program financed
more than 1,000 PMEs. More than 400 schools annually hired external technical assistance during the
life of the MECE-Media Program, which enabled provided teachers with in situ assistance, in order to
help face the change processes being implemented. The Program gave each school a total of 1.5 million
pesos on the average (about US$2,500 equivalent).
Thus, starting in 2001, Chile's secondary schools are better prepared to face task of education its
people from more equal ground, with more appropriate technological resources and a new management
culture. These improved conditions support the schools building their own improvement projects, and
so requesting specific technical assistance more relevant to their needs. The following table sums up
the magnitude of the physical goals attained through the MECE Secondary Program:
- 37 -



1995           1996            1997             1998            1999            2000
Technical                     Allocation of   Allocation of TA    Allocation of   Allocation of TA
assistance (TA)               TA fund to 352 fund to 442 schools. TA fund to 409 fund to 66
plans and                     schools.                          schools.       schools.
networks
Centers of     Provided:      Provided:      Provided:          Provided:      Provided:        Provided:
learning        1,300 sets of    1,215 sets of   1,300 collections II Third set of    Materials  To all
resources (CLR) school furniture  udiovisual    to libraries.   didactic       corresponding to  subsidized
and beginning   equipment,                      materials to    Collection III and schools in the
collections (290 1,215 sets of                  1,315 schools.  subscriptions to   MECE-Media
materials per   didactic                                       magazines/       Program (1400)
school on      materials, and                                  publications to   the Collection
average).      1,215 sets of                                   1,300 subsidized  III library
school                                          schools
furniture.                                                       Establishment
of CLR
Network in 50
schools.
Education in   62 sets of     99 sets of     299 sets of        479 sets of    296 sets of      24 sets of
information    equipment (HW  equipment (HW  equipment (HW &  equipment,    equipment.          equipment.
technology     & SW), training & SW),         SW),              312 sets of
(the coverage of and technical   100 sets of  312 sets of school  furniture,
each year      assistance for th school      furniture,         training and
corresponds to  schools.      furniture,     training and      technical
new schools that              training and    technical assistance assistance.
were                          technical      for the schools.
incorporated                  assistance for
into the                      the schools.
network)
Textbooks                                    Distributed:       Distributed:    Distributed:    Distributed:
229,000 math      230,000 math   249,600 math    English,
textbooks for     textbooks for   textbooks for   Spanish and
secondary I.      secondary I.   secondary I.     communication
229,000 language   230,000       249,600 language and math for I
and communication language and   and              and secondary II
textbooks for     communication  communication   textbooks for
secondary I.     textbooks for   textbooks for    students and
secondary I.   secondary I.    teachers
reached 229,000    230,000       206,000 language Spanish and
students in 1300   language and   and             communication
schools.          communication  communication   and Math for
textbooks for   textbooks for   secondary III
secondary II.   secondary II.   and IV.
192,000 math   188,100 math
textbooks for   textbooks for   To 100% of
secondary It.   secondary II.   students and
2,117 teachers  188,100 language teachers in
trained in     and              secondary I to
corresponding   communication   IV
areas.         textbooks for    MECE-Media
secondary III.    schools.
188,100 math
textbooks for
- 38 -



secondary IIL.
100% of teachers
trained in using
books.
School-based                98 school     294 school projects 293 school  192 school     231 school
quality                     projects      selected.        projects      projects selected. projects
improvement                 selected.                      selected.                     selected.
projects
Infrastructure  114 works to   206 works to   222 works to  552 schools
(in 1998, all the improve school improve school improve school    received library
output goals   infrastructure.  infrastructure.  infrastructure.  fumiture, and
programmed                                613 sets of library  another 516
were reached,                             furniture.       schools
and this project                          498 sets of teacher received teacher
sub-component                             room equipment.  room
was completed)                                          _  equipment
Increased participation and commitment of the actors in secondary education.  A major success
factor consists of the increased in the participation and commitment of teachers and students. The will
of the main education actors was mobilized by including them in the change process. More than 25
thousand teachers regularly participate in career development workshops in their own establishments,
which means nearly 90% of secondary education teachers take part of this initiative. Some 2,700
Professional Work Groups (GPT) were established, with an average of 3 groups per school. Though
they were not homogeneous, 75% of them operated with sufficient regularity, at least once every week
or two weeks. There exists moreover almost 100 pedagogical networks with 15 teachers per network,
with open forums to discuss issues between groups. At the beginning of the MECE-Media Program,
school management was exclusively under the charge of the school principal. The Program supported
the organization of a team of representatives from the school, who assumed a more active and
participatory role in the management of the education unit.  In 2000, 95%  of the schools had
Management Teams, in which around 40% of the teachers lparticipated, as well as 30% of the students.
The majority of teachers stated that by participating in the reform process, they renewed their
commitment to teaching, increased their desire to give classes and raised their knowledge level. Only
10% of them indicated their commitment was not renewed, around 18% did not experience increased
desire to teach, and 20% of them had not raised their knowledge level. These figures confirm most
experienced a new desire with teaching profession (see CIDE/Universidad Cat6lica, 1998 in Annex 7).
For its part, youths welcomed with enthusiasm the invitation to become part of the cultural activities
and voluntary recreational activities. Before the Program, research indicated that youths did not
identify with their schools. Their relationship with the educational institution was limited to class
attendance. The mid-term review study of MECE-Media indicates that today each week around 160
thousand youths invest a part of their time in art, communication, scientific, environmental, and athletic
workshops. Along with developing social skills, these activities allow the teachers and school directors
to meet the interests and motivations of the students, with an average of 7 workshops of Free Election
Activities (ACLE) per establishment. In addition to the last achievement, more than 98% of the
subsidized establishments have created student organizations. According to an index synthesizing the
effects of all these actions on the students in secondary education in the MECE-Media Program,
showed they achieved a high impact in more than half of the youths (15% very high, 38% high). Only
17% showed a low impact with 30% indicating a normal impact.
- 39 -



Updating the curriculum to make it more pertinent to the needs of the Chilean society. One of the
major fundamental achievements -- though not entirely attributable to the Program, -- corresponds to
the modification of the secondary education curriculum, at least for its rapid institutionalizing. Given
the need to be adaptable in the society of the future, the school system requires higher skills and
intellectual competences. This called for the design and implementation of a new curricular framework
with defined objectives and basic or minimal content requirements, as well as knowledge, competences,
skills, and attitudes that must develop all the students in each of the courses at that level. The
pedagogical practices of classroom teachers moreover also needed a major change. The current
curriculum change is based on the need to offer students training for life, which implies: (i) transmitting
content on the major current changes, in knowledge as well as national reality; (ii) this knowledge must
be pertinent and relevant and incorporate the recent advances in pedagogy; (iii) offering the possibility
for all to fully develop their potential and ability to leam throughout their entire lifetime; and (iv)
training which gives them moral character in developing personal freedom, conscious of human dignity
and the rights and responsibilities that are part of human nature. The underlying ideas to the vast and
profound curricular changes underway can be summed up as: (a) more demanding and rich learning
objectives; (b) conceptualization of knowledge; (c) learning to learn; (d) acquiring skills instead of
accumulating facts; (e) preparing for life rather than for college; and (f) training for the work world,
instead of for an job.
This new curricular framework strongly emphasizes the decentralization of its implementation in the
school classrooms. The framework allows for experimenting with adaptations and improvements on
and on-going permanent basis, in sync with the changes in knowledge and requirements of society. The
year 2001 culminates the development process as the proposed curriculum for grade 12 is submitted for
the consideration and approval by the Superior Council of Education, and will become effective in
schools in 2002. The curricular reform at the secondary level also distinguishes between general
training and specialized, for both the human sciences track as will as technical vocational.
Improvement of the teaching methods in secondary education. A large part of the efforts undertaken
were directed towards improving opportunities for learning for youths, and transformed the way
teachers taught in order to ensure this learning took place. In addition to increased material resources
which supported the minimum learning necessary, the Program encouraged a cultural change,
modifying the traditional way of holding classes. A highly significant achievement in this environment
is the well-known change in giving instruction, where the traditional method limited to chalk and
blackboard is being abandoned. This can be observed especially in the quarterly publication by the
Program, entitled "Didactic Pages". In this quarterly, a section is dedicated to teachers sharing
experiences in the classroom and pedagogical practices. To date, they have received more than 347
pages from teachers in different regions. Currently, the majority of teachers incorporate a variety of
teaching resources in presenting their classes. Over 80% use textbooks frequently; 75% and 79% use
the library and didactic materials, respectively. Computers are used 32.8% more than in previous
cases. Changes in the teachers' way of teaching and motivating students in order to attain these
changes were reinforced by the transformations in the management of schools under the School
Management Teams. Research prior to the Program showed the difficulties the directors experienced in
creating work teams and career development situations for the teachers and other school managers.
Students confirm the facts above, and indicate they noticed the emergence of new forns of giving
instruction. Four out of five youths say that his classes use problem resolution methodology often and
only a fourth of the students indicate that they never or rarely work in teams. An even more important
indicator that 85% of the youths gave positive feedback on the way their teachers taught. Two thirds of
youths use the library often for learning activities, and more than 50% of these use the library to do
homework. Last, but not least, since 1998, moreover, a culture of self-evaluation has developed within
- 40 -



the school, involving the participation of various education actors and aimed at raising student
achievement results and the quality of leaming.
Improvement of secondary education results. The results in terms of better coverage, passing and
graduation rates of students in secondary education are substantial, and clearly occur in the last third of
the decade, so it would be difficult to not associate them with the Program's impact. At the same time,
limitations remain, as indicated below. Secondary education coverage has clearly increased from 78%
in 1995 to 84% in 2000 (data from CASEN Survey 2000). The average number of years to complete
the secondary cycle decreased from 5.35 years in 1993 to 4.95 in 2000. The drop-out rate decreased by
around 10%, which means that a third less students dropped out at the end of the decade than at the
beginning. The average repetition rate decreased from over 12% in 1990 to about 6.4% in 2000. If the
1985-90 cohort is compared to the one of 1995-2000, significant changes can be seen, such as an
increase in the secondary cycle completion rate, which went from 68% to 73%, or in system retention
rate which rose from 72% to 75.2%. At the same time, the Program, along with other policies,
contributed to an important improvement in the coverage for the students of the poorest sectors,
narrowing the gap significantly when compared to coverage in 1990. The following chart shows a
comparison between the secondary education coverage gaps for youths belonging to the poorest
quintiles (1st and 2nd) to the richest quintile:
Difference 1990     1st and 5th Quintile        20.9
Difference 2000     1st and 5th Quintile        16.2
Difference 1990     2nd and 5th Quintile        17.9
Difference 2000     2nd and 5th Quintile        10.5
Despite these advances, if indices related to family income of youths are analyzed, educational
opportunities are clearly unequally distributed at this level. While secondary education is practically
universal for highest income quintile, a little under 18% of the youths of the poorest families still
remain outside the education system. In spite of this, the last ten years show a clear and significant
tendency to increase the secondary education coverage in about 10 percentage points in the lowest
income quintile and in about 12 percentage points for the second and third quintiles (according to the
National Socioeconomic Characterization Study, CASEN 2000).
The figures above need to be aggregated. An unequal distribution persists according to geographical
location, but the narrowing of differences is appreciable. T he coverage in 2000 reached 92% in urban
areas and below 76.8% in rural, a difference clearly lower than that of 1990, with urban coverage at
86.5% and rural at 50.2% (data from CASEN survey 2000).
Evolution of Coverage in Secondary Education,1990-2000, by Income Quintile
Quintile  1990   1992   1994    1996   1998   2000
I     73,3   73,6   73,3   75,3   77,4   82,3
II    76,3   77,9   80,9   81,0   84,1   88,0
III    80,5   83,0   86,9   89,3   88,4   92,4
IV     87,2   88,8   90,6   95,3   94,5   96,1
V      94,2   96,7   96,7   97,2   97,7   98,5
- 41 -



3. Follow up Actions for Sustainability. Chile's Ministry of Education is responsible for continuing
and maintaining the technical and financial changes introduced by the MECE-Media Program, as
outlined below. The first element of sustainability of major importance is the Educational Reform
process, under the umbrella of which the Program's actions fall within longer-term goals, committing
not only successive governments, but also forming a State policy, given the wide consensus for the need
of the Reform. The objectives specified in the MECE-Media Program still in effect have become part
of the fundamental activities used for education change in the Education Reform, thus strengthening
and giving new life to the teaching profession, basic and secondary curriculum reforms, and the
extension of the school day.
In order to maintain the general strategy of the MECE-Media Program, in particular the creation of a
dynamic and flexible system framework, unified, coherent and aligned with the overall system, the
Curriculum and Evaluation Unit was established. The Curriculum component of the Program was
transformed into a new Unit within the structure of the Ministry of Education since 1998, and assumed
the responsibility of designing a new curriculum framework, which once created, would generate
mechanisms to support the current curricular framework by implementing a learning assessment system
(updated SIMCE). Until the establishment of this Curriculum and Evaluation Unit, SIMCE was linked
exclusively to basic education. It was decided to create an evaluation system for secondary education,
specifically for the 1 0th grade (2nd year of the secondary cycle). This first measure was applied to this
entire level. This measure was limited given it was not aligned with the content of the new curriculum.
During November 2001 a second baseline measure is to be taken for the secondary level aligned with
the basic quality standards of the new curriculum. At the same time the Academic Aptitude Test for
entry to the university system is under revision, together with the universities belonging to the Council
of Rectors. This instrument of entry selection, needs also to be aligned with the new curriculum and
may become an exit exam from the secondary education system. From 2001, the Curriculum and
Evaluation Unit, totally funded by the national budget, has incorporated under its responsibility the
school textbook programs and the Leaming Resource Centers, which were part of the activities that the
MECE-Media Program helped to institutionalize.
Within the schools, a cultural change has permitted, gradually, the support of a school system which
evaluates its management and is committed to the attainment of quality results. From the Educational
Institutions Projects (Proyectos Educativos Institucionales), many activities took place that help build
an self-evaluative culture in the framework of a school that learns. For this, auto-evaluation cards
were administered in order to review the installation, execution, and intemal consolidation of the
various components of the Program as they entered the schools. In 2000, a second auto-evaluation
instrument was introduced, the Evaluation Matrices, in order to review management, pedagogical and
youth development practices, according to the results on student leaming. These instruments of
self-evaluation are employed extensively in subsidized schools with the goal of re-orienting the
management to look for quality of the school and reposition the director of the establishment as a
pedagogical leader (complementing his role as administrator).
As a result of greater autonomy in schools and hands-on experience in managing resources, which came
mainly from the opportunity of buying services from the Technical Assistance Network, or creating
their own school-based quality improvement project (PME), the role of the supervisor has undergone a
significant transformation, shifting from that of the Ministry's budget specialist/controller to one of
pedagogical technical support for school initiatives. This official is trained through workshops and is
accompanied by professionals from the central office on school visits.
- 42 -



The National Secondary Education Coordination Unit was created in the Ministry of Education in
mid-2000 with three main action programs. First, is the program for direct follow-up of the
MECE-Media financed activities that have been sustained by the ME. This program continues and
deepens the changes already produced, making available a type of menu to all secondary schools
according to their needs and educational projects. Within this program, a support group also exists for
GPTs and School Management Teams. Linked with this first program is the "Montegrande" Program,
which builds various institutional forms for implementing individual education projects, thus allowing a
type of "laboratory" of secondary education innovative experiences, which may be developed with the
overall Program. This intervention requires a strong financial support to 51 schools distributed across
the country. The last program, called the "School for Everyone", aims at reducing school drop out
rates for at-risk youths, and improving the education offered. It hopes to lower the rate by 6% for the
most vulnerable population in the next four years (currently at 11%). This program focuses on 424
schools which work with the lower-income high-risk students. Within the last Program is found the
Youth Component activities as a continuation of the MECE, Secondary Program.
4. Lessons Learned.  The following eight lessons emerge from  the implementation of the
MECE-Media Program:
(a)    Diversify strategies. The design did not take into consideration the specific strategies related
to the heterogeneity of the target population.  This meant that throughout the Program's
implementation, new activities, more relevant to the needs and realities of the different actors had to be
created to become more effective. The lesson leamed is that diverse designs need to be developed, and
based on more refined diagnostic analysis prior to their creation.
(b)    Ensure institutional sustainability. The design did not take into account the need for an
analysis at the beginning as a basis for creating changes, of the norms already in effect at the time of
implementation of the Program, so to ensure the basic necessary conditions for the sustainability of the
changes attained at the Program's end. In future experiments, one should keep in mind that the
preparation of receiving organizations and adjustment of management procedures takes time.
Transferring official functions is complex, due, among other things, to the shock produced by the
difference in the cultures operating in the areas of emission and reception of the functions transferred.
(c)    Program management and integration. The original design did not take into consideration
the linkages needed between components, several of which were necessary and even interdependent,
such as the Textbook and Curriculum components. One lesson leamed related to management at both
the central and decentralized levels, was the need to continually reinforce the processes of
cross-fertilization (linkages between components), based on the accumulated experiences, thereby
empowering management personnel through intemal and extemal training. Despite the difficulties,
coordination and synergetic activities were an important lesson leamed about a gradual combining of
strategies and actions of "push, pull and working the networks".
(d)    Incremental progress.  The design overestimated the skills of the target population,
demanding a variety and quantity of activities beyond its capacities in the first stage. A gradual
building of activities was not considered, a situation which was gradually modified after a while.
Another lesson leamed regarding management centered on the on-going need to modulate the
introduction of the various Program interventions, in function of the demonstrated degree of impact and
effectiveness in implementation.
- 43 -



(e)    Isolated Administration. The General Education Division (GED) of the ME had difficulties
in becoming integrated to the MECE-Media logic. During the course of project implementation,
management and operating procedures were developed that were not in line with those of GED.
Towards mid-2000, these issues were satisfactorily addressed by the ME with the establishment of the
Secondary Coordination Unit within GED.
(f)    Market Analysis. The original design assumed that the market in place at the time had the
capacity to provide the educational goods and services programmed. Since it was an emerging market,
however, it needed reinforcement. This delayed the implementation of several components, such as
Textbooks, Learning Resource Centers, and Technical Assistance.
(g)    Define key actors and alliances. In the original design, the role of the supporters as key
stakeholders in the Program's success was underestimated. No specific strategies were developed for
them. Along the same lines, the support of the Municipal Departments of Education Administration
and other community actors, like parents and donors, were also not taken into account. Neither was the
necessary effort made to build relationships with teacher training institutions (university education
faculties), nor with institutions offering in-service teacher training, until the later stages of the change
process. It is important to assure contact and participation with all the actors involved from the
beginning of the process to avoid resistance later.
(h)    Involve key actors.  In the Program's components involving the participation of others
(Youths, GPTs, CRAs) clearly facilitated the appropriateness and legitimacy of the innovations. This
reinforces lesson leamed of the importance of involving key actors from the very beginning of the
change process.
- 44 -



