Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13880-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 11, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin American and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Ch$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of November 1994)
US$1.00 = Ch$405
Ch$1.00 = US$0.002
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CASEN             National Socioeconomic Survey (Encuesta de
Caracterizaci6n Socioecon6mica Nacional)
CPEIP             Teacher Training and Educational Research Center
(Centro de Perfeccionamiento, Experimentaci6n e
Investigaciones Pedag6gicas)
CPEU              Curriculum Planning and Evaluation Unit (Unidad de
Planificaci6n y Evaluaci6n Curricular)
DEM               Municipal Educational Departments (Departamentos de
Educaci6n Municipal)
DEPROV            Provincial Educational Authorities (Direcciones
Provinciales de Educaci6n)
FNDR              National Fund for Regional Development (Fondo Nacional
de Desarrollo Regional)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product (Producto Dom6stico Bruto)
GTZ               German Ministry of Economic Development (Ministerio
de Desarrollo Econ6mico de la Republica Federal
Alemana)
ICB               International Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Pu'blica
Internacional)
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano
de Desarrollo)
INACAP            National Institute for Vocational Training (Instituto
Nacional de Capacitaci6n)
IVA               Value-Added Tax (Impuesto al Valor Agregado)
JUNAEB            National School Assistance and Scholarship Board (Junta
Nacional de Auxilio Escolar y Becas)
LAC               Latin America and the Caribbean (America Latina y el
Caribe)
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Publica Local)



LOCE              Constitutional Organic Law of Education (Ley Organica
Constitucional de Ensefianza)
MECE              Primary Education Improvement Project (Proyecto de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la Educaci6n
Bdsica)
MECE-EM           Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project
(Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la
Educaci6n Media)
MIDEPLAN          Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificaci6n)
MINEDUC           Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n)
MIS               Management Information System  (Sistema de Informaci6n
Gerencial)
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization (Organizaci6n no
Gubernamental)
NMV               Non-Monetary Voucher (Cup6n no Monetario)
OECD              Organization for Economic Co-Operation and
Development (Organizaci6n para la Cooperaci6n
Econ6mica y Desarrollo)
ORT               Organization for Rehabilitation through Training
(Organizaci6n para la Rehabilitaci6n a traves del
Entrenamiento para el Trabajo)
PCU               Project Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6n del
Proyecto)
PDE               School-based Educational Development Projects
(Proyectos de Desarrollo Educativo)
RM                Metropolitan Region (Regi6n Metropolitana)
SENCE             National Training and Employment Service (Servicio
Nacional de Capacitaci6n y Empleo)
SEREMIs           Ministerial Regional Secretariats (Secretarfas Regionales
Ministeriales)



SETMC             Secondary Education Teaching Materials Catalog
(CatAlogo de Material Didactico de las Escuelas
Secundarias)
S-H                Scientific-Humanistic Track (Escuelas Secundarias
Generales)
SIMCE             Student Assessment System  (Sistema de Informaci6n
Sobre la Calidad de la Educaci6n)
SPG               School Professional Groups (Grupos Profesionales de
Trabajo de las Escuelas Secundarias)
TSN               Technical Support Network (Red de Asistencia T6cnica)
T-VOC             Technical-Vocational Track (Escuelas Secundarias
Tecn6logicas)
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme (Programa de
Desarrollo de las Naciones Unidas)
UNESCO            United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (Organizaci6n de las Naciones Unidas para la
Educaci6n, la Ciencia y la Cultura)
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
(Agencia para el Desarrollo Internacional de los Estados
Unidos)






CHILE
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......                      .................. i
1.     ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND ........1.......... 
A.    Recent Economic Trends and Future Prospects ....          .......... 1
B.   Social Sectors ................................... 2
2.   EDUCATION SECTOR: DESCRIPI1ON AND ISSUES ..........                            3
A.    Overview  .....................................  3
B.    Basic Statistics in Secondary Education ......       ............. 5
C.    Relevant Issues in Secondary Education  .....        ............. 7
D.    Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy .....         .......... 15
E.    Bank Role and Strategy ............................ 17
F.    Lessons Learned ................................. 19
3.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  . .21
A. Project Objectives .21
B. Project Description .21
4.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN  . .33
A. Cost of the Project .33
B. Financing Plan .33
C.  Education Sector Budget for FY95 .33
D.    Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project .36
E.  Project Sustainability .37
This report is based on the findings of 13 research studies financed by the Bank-
sponsored Primary Education Quality Improvement Project in Chile (Ln. 3410-CH, MECE); a
public consulting process including more than 35,000 educational system staceholders; an
international seminar carried out in November 1992; study tours to observe the scondary
education systems of the Pacific Rim and OECD countries (carried out in April 1992 and June
1994 respectively); identification and preparation missions from October 1992 to November
1994, and an appraisal mission in January 1995. Mission members included Mmes./Mesrs.: J.
Prawda (Mission Leader), L. Pisani, J.Valenzuela, and N.Kanioka (LA1HR); A. Vn Adams
(AFTHR); and MmeslMessrs: A. Artaza, D. Baker, A. M. Magaloni, R. McMeecin, L.
Riveros, E. Schiefelbein, M. L. Tulic, and D. Waddington (Consultants). E. Velez (LA2HR)
and J. Bregman (SAIPH) served as peer reviewers. Y. Duthilleul (Summer Assistant), J.
Nannucci (Staff Assistant, PADTA), and J. Fernandez (Sr. Language Staff Assitant, LA1HR),
provided asistance in the production of the report. This report was edited by W. Mayvielo.
The Department Director, Projects Adviser, and Sector Division Chief ar: Mesr. G.
Nankani, 0. Grimes, and A. Colliou.



Page
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMEENTATION             ................. 37
A. Status of Preparation .37
B.  Implementation Schedule .37
C. Project Management .38
D. Procurement .39
E.  Disbursements and Accounts .41
F. Audits .43
G.   Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .43
6.  EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS   .                   .44
A. Expected Benefits .44
B. Expected Risks .44
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..                           45
A. Agreements Reached .45
B. Recommendation .45
Annex A   Social Expenditures and Indicators
Table 1: Poverty Indicators .46
Table 2:   Public Expenditures 1990-93 (in percent of Total Government
Expenditures) .46
Table 3:   Public Expenditures 1990-93 (in percent of GDP) .47
Table 4:   Public Social Expenditures 1990-93 (in percent of Total Social
Expenditures) .47
Table 5:   Social Indicators of Development, 1993 .48
Annex B   Education System Organization
Chart 1:   Organizational Chart of MINEDUC, SEREMIS,
and DEPROV .50
Chart 2:   Organizational Chart for Municipal Administration .51
Annex C   Education Statistics
Table 1:   Schools by Levels and Type of School in 1993 .52
Table 2:   Total Enrollment by Levels and Type of School in 1993.      52
Table 3:   Teacher and School Principals by Levels and Type of School in
1993 .53
Table 4:   Secondary Enrollment by Track, Region and
Rural Areas in 1993 .53
Table 5:   Secondary Gross Enrollment: 1970-92 Rate Trend .54
Table 6:   Latin America-Comparative Education Indicators .54
Table 7:   Selected Asian and OECD Countries Comparative Education
Indicators, 1992 .55
Table 8:   Rates of Return to Investments in Secondary Education .      55
Table 9:   Repetition and Dropout Rates by Type of School in 1993      56
Table 10:  Repetition and Dropout Rates by Region in 1993 ......... 56



Page
Table 11:  Cohort Average Length of Study: 1975-92 Trend by
Type of School and Track ..........      ............. 57
Table 12:  Secondary Enrollment Lagging Behind Standard Age ....... 57
Table 13:  Cognitive Achievement in Spanish and Mathematics
by Type of School and Track           .       .     58
Table 14:  Secondary Enrollment Trend by Income Quintile ... ...... 58
Table 15:  Secondary Enrollment Rate by Region and Urban-
Rural Areas in 1990               ..                     59
Table 16:  Secondary Enrollment by Income and Type of School ... 59
Table 17:  Secondary Schools Ranked by Achievement Results ....... 60
Table 18:  Destiny of Secondary School Graduates by
Socioeconomic Status    ................. .           60
Annex D   Educational Expenditures
Table 1:   Public Educational Expenditures as Percent of GDP and Total
Public Expenditures (TPE) ....................... 61
Table 2:   Selected Developed Countries-Public Educational
Expenditures as Percent of GDP and TPE  ....  ......... 61
Table 3:   Total Educational Expenditures by Source .... ......... 62
Table 4:   Educational Expenditures by Category of Expense ... ..... 62
Table 5:   Annual Growth of Educational Expenditures by Educational
Level .................................... 63
Table 6:   Distribution of Educational Expenditures by Educational Level . 63
Annex E   Project Cost Tables and Fnancing
Table 1:   Project Cost by Component and Main Expenditure Category    64
Table 2:   Project Cost by Component and Year of Implementation ... 65
Table 3:   Project Cost by Main Category of Expenditure and Year of
Implementation       ...................              65
Table 4:   Detailed Project Cost by Component and Subcomponent
and Year of Implementation ......... ............. 66
Table 5:   Project Annual Financing by Source and Category of
Expenditure .............. .................. 68
Annex F   Forecast Sector Budget
Table 1:   Expected Impact of Project as Percent of MINEDUC's Forecast
Education Budget      .................. .            69
Annex G   Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation
Schedule
Table 1:   Yearly Project Component Targets   .   .70
Table 2:   Project Implementation Schedule    ..76



Pare
Annex H   Project Coordination Unit (PCU) .................. 78
Chart I    PCU Organizational Chart ....................... 79
Table 1    Staffing Requirements for the PCU .................. 84
Annex I   Disburements
Table 1:   Quarterly Disbursement Proffle .................... 85
Annex J   Monitoring and Supervision
A:   Project Performance Indicators  .................... 86
Table 1:   Key Project Performance Indicators  ................. 86
Table 2:   Supervision Arrangements ....................... 91
B:    Scope and Content of the Mid-Term Review  ....         ........ 92
Annex K   Comparative Education Indicators
Table 1:   Comparative Education Indicators  .................. 95
Annex L   Seected Documents and Data Available in the Project Flle. . 96



-1-
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Chile
Implementing      Ministry of Education (MINEDUC)
Agency:
Beneficiary:      MINEDUC
Poverty:          Not applicable
Amount:           US$35 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commtment         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
Fee:              days after signing, less any waiver
Flnancing Plan:    See Para. 4.4
Net Present Value: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal    No. 13880-CH
Report:
Map:              IBRD No. 26798



-ii-
BASIC DATA SHEET
Year
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA
GNP per Capita (USS)                                                       S3,073.0    1993
Ama ('000 Kzit)                                                               756.6    1994
Populadon Ertimate (Millions)                                                  13.6    1994
Density (Habitants/Ki)                                                         17.7    1992
Urban Population (% of Total)                                                  85.1    1992
Population Forecast for Year 2000 (rnillions)                                  15.0    1994
B. SOCIAL INDICATORS
Cmade Death Rate (par 1,000)                                                    7.0    1992
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                                            1.3    1990
Total Fertility Rate (births per women)                                         2.7    1992
Crade Birth Rate (per 1,000)                                                   23.0    1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                                              17.0    1992
life Expectancy at Birth (years)                                               72.0    1992
Daily Caloric Supply (per capita)                                           2,584.0    1990
Adult lliteracy Rate (% of pop. over age 15)                                    6.6    1993
Average Schooling of Adults 15 years or older (years)                           6.5    1992
C. GENERAL EDUCATION DATA
Primary Gros Enrollment Age 6-13 (X)                                           98.0    1991
Secondary Gross Enrollment Age 14-17 (%)                                       76.0    1992
Preschool Net Enmollment Age 4-5 (%)                                           77.0    1990
Prinary Net Enrollment Age 6-13 (%)                                            87.0    1991
Secondary Net Enrollment Age 14-17 (%)                                         55.0    1991
D. SECONDARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR - ENROLLMENT AND
TEACHERS
Total Secondry Enrollment                                                 652,815.0    1993
Municipal EnroUment Share (X)                                                  51.2    1993
Private-Subsidized Enrollment Share (X)                                        31.0    1993
Priva-Paid Enrollmnent Share (%)                                               10.0    1993
Corporation Enrollment Share (%)                                                7.8    1993
Rural Enrollment (%)                                                            2.2    1993
Number of Teachers                                                         43,094.0    1993
Swena: World Development Report, 1994, The World Bank, Washington 1994; World Educational Report, 1993,
Tbc World Bank, Washington, 1993; Social Indicators of Development, 1994, The World Bank, Washington, 1994;
UNESCO Statistical Yearbook, 1993, UNESCO, Paris 1993; Conpendio de Informsci6n Estadfstica, Ministerio de
Educaci6n, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, Santiago, Chile, 1992.



-iii-
BASIC DATA SHEET (Coot.)
Year
Uncertified Teachers (%)                                          5.7            1993
INTERNAL EMCIENCY
Repetition Rate S-H Track (X)                                     13.9           1993
Repetition Rate T-V (%)                                           15.2           1993
Dropout Rate S-H (%)                                              6.8            1993
Dropout Rate T-V (X)                                              7.8            1993
Transition Rate from Primnar ()                                   96.0           1991
Completion Rate in Municipal Schools, 1985-90 cobort (t)          61.6           1992
Completion Rate in Private-Sub Schools, 1985-90 cohort (X)        73.6           1992
Compbltion Raw in Private-Paid Schools, 1985-90 cohort (%)        87.7           1992
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
Reading Achievement in S-H Track (5) 50.9                                        1993
Reading Achievement in T-V Trck (X)                               45.2           1993
Writing Achievement in S-H Track (X)                              46.9           1993
Writing Achievement in T-V Track (X)                              43.1           1993
Math Achievenent in S-H Track (X)                                 48.9           1993
Math Achievement in T-V Track (5)                                 43.7           1993
E. EDUCATION EXPENDITURE DATA
Total Govt. Expenditure for Edue. Cm ChS 1992 billion)           438.1           1992
Total Govt. Expenditure for Educ. (in USS 1992 billion)            1.2           1992
Total Educational Expenditure (%GDP)                              3.0            1992
Educational Expenditure (X of total Gov. Expenditure)             11.2           1992
Total Expend. for Preschool and Basic Ed. (% of total Educ. Exp.)  61.5          1992
Toul Expend. for Secondary Education (5 of total Educ. Exp.)      15.7           1992
Total Expand. for Higher Education (%of toul Educ. Exp.)          19.8           1992






-1v-
DEFINMTIONS
Adult Illiteracy Rate         Percent of individuals over the age of 18 who do not know
how to read or write.
Achievement Rate              Percentage of correct answers on a given standardized
cognitive achievement test.
Average Schooling of Adults   Average years of formal schooling completed among
individuals over the age of 15.
Cohort                        A group of individuals having a statistical factor (such as
age, class, or year) in common.
Completion Rate               Average number of students completing their four-grade
secondary school in either of both tracks as percentage of
those entering in a given year, regardless of the number of
years it takes them.
Crude Birth Rate              Number of births per 1,000 population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate              Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year.
Gross Enrollment Ratio        Children of all ages enrolled in schools at a particular level
of education as a percentage of the population within the age-
level defined for that particular education level.
Infant Mortality Rate         Number of deaths of infants under one year of age in a given
year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Internal Efficiency           Ratio of learning (a non-monetary outcome of education) to
the costs of educational inputs. Internal efficiency addresses
the question of how funds within the education sector are
allocated. The objective is to obtain the greatest educational
output for any given level of spending.
Life Expectancy at Birth      Average number of years an infant would live if the current
age/sex-specific mortality trend prevailing at the time of birth
were to continue.
Net Enrollment Ratio          Percentage of children of a given age-group enrolled in
school at a particular level of education.



Rate of Population Growth     Rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing) in a
given year due to a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths,
expressed as a percentage of the total population.
Total Education Expenditure   Federal spending on education plus municipal resources
allocated to education as well as private, nonsubsidized
spending at all levels of education. This also includes
investments in education allocated through the Ministry of
Interior.
Total Fertility Rate          Average number of children who would be born alive to a
woman during her lifetime if she were to pass through her
child-bearing years conforming to the age-specific fertlity
rates of a given year.
Transition Rate               Percentage of primary (basic) education graduates continuing
their freshman secondary education in the same calendar
year.



CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
A. Recent Economic Trends and Future Prospects
1.1   Background. Chile's first democratic government, headed by President Aylwin, ended
its term on March 11, 1994. A second democratic government, under President Frei, was
inaugurated immediately thereafter. During 1989-94, Chile achieved an impressive economic
record: GDP averaged 7.1 percent annual growth; inflation declined to an annual rate of 8.9
percent; and unemployment remains at a low 6.5 percent. The balance of payments continued to
register surplus due to inflow of long-term capital and direct foreign investment. As a
consequence, the Central Bank accumulated ample reserves (the equivalent of almost ten months
of imports by the end of 1994), which has led to repeated nominal appreciations of the peso.
1.2   Employment. Uninterrupted economic growth has increased the overall level of
employment, especially in the non-tradable sectors (construction, commerce, personal services,
transport, communication, and financial services). The economy now operates at close to full
employment. Although the unemployment rate has risen from 5.3 percent in 1989 to 6.5 percent
in 1994, it is expected to fall due to continued economic growth of around 6.8 percent until the
end of the decade. The general increase in employment also contributed to an increase in the
employment of women. The participation rate of women in the labor force increased from 31
percent in 1990 to 33.5 percent in 1993. Higher employment has exacerbated the shortage of
skilled labor, especially in the construction and manufacturing sectors. Real wages increased on
average by 4.4 percent over the 1990-94 period.
1.3   Role of the Private Sector. The government has strongly supported the establishment of
a dynamic private sector. The vast majority of Chilean firms are small (employing from 10 to
49 workers), yet accounted for less than 20 percent of total sales in 1992 and had a stagnant
growth rate. Growth is strongest among large firms (employing more than 50 workers), which
showed an annual average growth rate of nearly 10 percent. Chile's exports increased from 26
percent of GDP in 1985 to 30 percent in 1992, yet small firms continue to produce a small share
of exports, which are mainly produced by large firms.
1.4   Medium-Term Outlook. The Chilean authorities estimate that in 1995, economic
growth will be around 6 percent. Inflation is expected to fall from 8.9 to 8 percent. Projections
envisage that the economy can grow annually at an average of 6.8 percent over the next ten
years, driven mainly by strong export growth of almost 10 percent per year. The external
balance will continue to improve as copper prices should remain high, along with a rapid



increase in non-traditional exports. The current account deficit (0.9 percent of GDP in 1994),
should remain modest. Foreign reserves will continue to increase as capital inflows are expected
to remain strong. The fiscal situation is expected to continue to be sound, although social
expenditure and infrastructure investments will continue to increase.
1.5   The above scenario, or even one calling for a slightly higher growth, will require
increases in the productivity and efficiency of the economy, especially when considering the
challenge presented by an appreciating peso. This growth scenario will entail some fundamental
improvements in the stock of human capital and flexibility of the labor market, increased
absorption of new technology, and a surge in exports. Clearly a number of exogenous factors,
such as the price of copper and other international commodities, global interest rates and growth,
and regional trade prospects, will shape the frontier which Chile will be pursuing. However,
endogenous factors of paramount importance, such as increasing the efficiency and enhancing the
quality of education while improving educational equity and strengthening sectoral management,
will be critical in determining whether the medium-term growth outlook will become a reality.
B. Social Sectors
1.6   Chile's social development over the past three decades has been impressive. While
Chile's GNP per capita of US$3,073 in 1993 places it among the lower end of the scale for
middle-income countries, its social indicators closely resemble those observed in developed
countries. Chile's average life expectancy at birth of 72 years (1992) is well above the Latin
American average of 67.5 years; infant mortality rate is relatively low (17 per 1,000); the
prevalence of moderate and severe malnutrition (measured by weight-for-age) among children
under six years of age is less than 1 percent (1988), similar to that of developed countries.
There is universal access to eight grades of basic education. The average level of educational
attainment among the population 15 years of age or older in 1982 was about 6.5 years, reaching
10 years for the youngsters under 15 years old, and 12 years for household heads in the fifth
quintile of income. The overall adult literacy rate of nearly 94 percent gives Chile the second
lowest illiteracy rate in Latin America (next to Uruguay). Income distribution improved over the
1990-92 period as the gap between the richest 20 percent and the poorest 20 percent became
slightly narrower (Annex A, Table A-1). According to the National Socioeconomic Survey
(CASEN), the number of people living in poverty dropped by more than 800,000 during the
1990-93 period. CASEN estimates that the total number of poor Chileans now stands at
approximately 4.3 million, 33 percent of the total population, down from 45 percent in the late
1980s.
1.7   Social Expenditure. Social expenditure in education, health, housing, social security,
and other related sectors accounted for about 56 percent of total government expenditure (2.5
percent higher than in 1989) and ranked as a first priority in government expenditures during the
1990-1993 Aylwin Administration (Annex A, Table A-2). Social expenditure increased from
13.9 percent in 1985 to 15.3 percent of GDP in 1993, while maintaining fiscal balance (Annex



A, Table A-3). The increase was financed entirely by a tax reform carried out in 1990.
Expenditures for education, which accounted for about 20 percent of social expenditure and 3
percent of GDP, increased by 33 percent in real terms during this period. This was attributed
mainly to the effects of the: (i) increases in subsidies to schools (Annex A, Table A-4);
(ii) increases in teachers' salaries due to the enactment of the Teachers Statute Law (1991); and
(iii) Bank-financed Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (MECE, Loan 3410-CH) .
Table A-5 in Annex A shows development indicators for Chile in several sectors.
2. EDUCATION SECTOR: DESCREPIION AND ISSUES
A. Overview
2.1   Education Structure. The Chilean education system begins with preschool for children
under six years old. Preschool education is a noncompulsory service offered by an array of
public and private institutions to promote children's social, psychomotor, and emotional
development. Primary (or basic) education consists of an eight-year compulsory cycle for
children 6 to 13 years old. Secondary education is provided to students 14 to 17 years old who
have completed primary education. The structure of secondary education involves a four-year
cycle that is divided into two tracks: (a) a scientific-humanistic (S-H) curriculum that prepares
students for further studies through tertiary education; and (b) a technical-vocational (T-VOC)
curriculum to prepare students for work immediately after graduation. The first two grades of
secondary education (9 and 10) are known as the first cycle, and the last two grades (11 and 12)
are known as the second cycle. Secondary graduates who decide to continue their studies can
opt for the Centers for Technical Training which offer short-term, non-academic training
courses, or for tertiary education consisting of the universities or the professional institutes.
Special or differentiated education is provided to children 6 to 14 years old with learning
disabilities. Adult education programs are directed at individuals 16 years and older who want
to learn to read and write or who need to complete primnary or secondary education.
2.2   Non-Formal Vocational Training. Alongside the formal technical-vocational training
provided by the T-VOC secondary schools, Chile has a parallel, independent, non-formal system
that embraces several programs for job-seekers and individuals already in the labor force. This
non-formal system is supervised by the National Training and Employment Service (Servicio
Nacional de Capacitaci6n y Empleo, SENCE). SENCE is governed by representatives of labor
unions, employers' associations, and the Government, and is financed by levies on enterprise
payrolls'. Currently, there are more than 1,700 authorized providers of training services
(which include universities, professional institutes, and training centers, among others) which
SENCE uses to provide training to adults and youth from about 7,700 small, medium, and large
1/    Equivalent to 1 percent of the worker's payroll or three minimum wages (whichever
is smaller).



companies. In 1992, the SENCE program trained over 261,000 workers, representing about 7.4
percent of the total formal labor force. The principal areas of training were: administration,
manufacturing, information technology, and commercial services.
2.3   Organization. The basic functions of the educational sector were reorganized following
the enactment of Law 18,956 on March 8, 1990. In accordance with this Law, the Ministry of
Education (MINEDUC) is responsible for policy-setting, core curriculum definition, supervision,
evaluation, resource targeting, and financial monitoring through its central, 13 regional
(SEREMIS), and 40 provincial departmental (DEPROV) offices, in a manner that is largely
independent of the municipalities. Municipalities are in charge of the daily operation of the
public schools, including: hiring and firing of teachers; paying personnel salaries under the
framework established by the Teacher Statute Law, and maintaining and improving school
infrastructure. Educational services are provided by municipalities and private proprietors, with
MINEDUC monitoring the quality of the services delivered. There are 334 municipalities which
provide educational services through about 280 Education Departments (DEM) and nearly 90
Corporations (Corporaciones), which are non-profit, publicly subsidized autonomous entities
presided over by the mayor of the respective municipality, and comprising important employer
associations. The organization charts of MINEDUC, SEREMIS, and DEPROVs appear in Annex
B, Chart B-1, while that of the municipalities appears in Annex B, Chart B-2.
2.4   Approximately 143,000 teachers in about 15,700 schools (61 percent municipal, 28
percent private-subsidized, 10 percent private paid, and 1 percent Corporations) provide
preschool, primary, secondary, and special education to the country's estimated 3 million
students (Annex C, Tables C-1, C-2, and C-3). In addition, the tertiary education system enrolls
over 285,000 students in universities, 43,000 students in the professional institutes, and nearly
74,000 in the Centers for Technical Training. Of the total pre-university enrollment, 8.5 percent
were registered in preschool, 68.7 percent in primary, 21.7 percent in secondary (13 percent in
the S-H track and 8.7 percent in the T-VOC track), and 1. 1 percent in special education. The
Metropolitan Region (RM) of Santiago comprises nearly 40 percent of total enrollment; the
regions of Valparaiso (V), Concepci6n (VIII), and Puerto Montt (X) comprise another 29.5
percent of the student population, with the remaining 30.7 percent scattered throughout the other
nine regions. From 1981 to 1993, total enrollment grew annually by only 0.4 percent, from
2.84 million to 3 million. This limited expansion was caused by a decrease of 3.4 percent in
primary education enrollment, even though there was an increase in the preschool, secondary,
and special education enrollments. The main reasons for the decrease in primary education
enrollment was a decline in the birthrate from 1.9 percent in 1970 to 1.7 percent in 1987, and a
reduction in primary education repetition rates among first graders (from 15.5 percent in 1982 to
9 percent in 1989).
2.5   Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (MECE). In spite of the
administrative educational reform undertaken by the Chilean authorities during the past decade,
and by the achievements in solving the traditional problems of literacy and access to primary
education, Chile's basic education system, especially municipal and government-subsidized
private schools, has faced issues of internal inefficiency, low quality, inequity, and weak



managementz'. The Government which was elected in 1990 launched a US$243 million
educational project (MECE), partially financed by the Bank (Loan 3410-CH of US$170 million),
to address the above-mentioned issues in basic and preschool education.
B. Basic Statistics in Secondary Education
2.6   Curriculum. The Constitutional Organic Law of Education 18,962, of March 10, 1990
(Ley Organica Constitucional de Ensenianza - LOCE), assigns MINEDUC the responsibility of
setting the secondary education core curriculum (for both the S-H and T-VOC tracks), and
empowers secondary schools with the task of defining the complementary curriculum and
establishing the school study plan and syllabi. During the 1990-93 period, only a few private-
paid secondary schools, mostly located in high-income urban areas, were able to implement the
recommendations of the LOCE. Most secondary schools in Chile do not have the technical
skills and instruments required to implement the recommendations of the LOCE. The few
school-study plans and syllabi that have been implemented have been characterized by:
(i) increases in the weekly study load; (ii) incorporation of new course materials; and
(iii) differentiated plans in the first (grades 9 and 10) and second (grades 11 and 12) cycles of
secondary school.
2.7   The secondary school year comprises 38 weeks of classes, equivalent to 1,221 hours of
45 minutes instruction in the first cycle and 1,332 hours in the second cycle. The teacher's
weekly hours of work may not exceed 44 chronological hours for the same employer. These are
distributed in 33 hours of classroom work per week and 11 hours for planning, preparation of
projects and tests, and other non-teaching, school-related activities. Each secondary school is
entitled to set its own schedule. In general, classes in secondary schools are held during the
morning for the second cycle, and in the afternoon for the first cycle.
2.8   The four-year, subject-based curriculum for the S-H track is highly fragmented and
includes 16 subjects (Spanish, Math, Chilean History and Geography, Universal History and
Geography, Philosophy, Civics, Economics, Foreign Language, Biology, Physics, Chemistry,
Artistic Education, Sports, Religion, and two electives). The curricula for the four-year T-VOC
secondary schools, which is also subject-based, consists of three highly fragmented areas of
study: (i) basic courses including Spanish, Math, Chilean History and Geography;
(ii) professional courses containing subjects related to potential jobs in the commercial, technical,
2/    This administrative reform consisted of: (a) transferring the preschool, primary, and
secondary schools to the country's 334 municipalities; (b) transferring a portion of
the vocational secondary schools to the Corporations created by associations of
employers; and (c) encouraging through a subsidy payment per student (subvenci6n)
private individuals and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to create tuition-
free schools.



- 6 -
industrial, agricultural and maritime subsectors of the economy; and (iii) complementary courses
oriented toward the preservation of the environment, self-improvement, and the appreciation of
the arts and sports.
2.9   Enrollment. Total secondary education enrollment in 1993 amounted to nearly 653,000
students, of which 60 percent were registered in the S-H track and 40 percent in the T-VOC
track. About 51.2 percent of the total enrollment attended municipal secondary schools, 38.8
percent government-subsidized private schools (7.8 percent in schools administered by the
Corporations), and 10 percent attended private-paid schools. Nearly 40 percent of the
enrollment was concentrated in the Metropolitan Area of Santiago, another 30 percent in the
Regions of Valparaiso (V), Bio Bio (VIII), and Los Lagos (X), while the remaining nine regions
of the country absorbed 30 percent of total enrollment. Secondary education in Chile is mainly
an urban phenomenon, since almost 98 percent of total enrollment is concentrated in areas with
2,500 inhabitants or more. The regions with the highest concentration of rural secondary
enrollment are: Los Lagos (X), Maule (VII), and Aisen (XI) (Annex C, Table C-4). Females
represent over 51 percent of the total enrollment.
2.10 The gross enrollment rate of the 14-17 age cohort has steadily increased in the past two
decades, from 50 percent in 1970 to over 76 percent in 1992, at an annual rate of 1.9 percent
(Annex C, Table C-5). This enrollment rate is one of the highest in Latin America (Annex C,
Table C-6), and compares to countries with which it competes in world markets, such as Korea,
Hong Kong, and Singapore. Yet, it still lags behind the main OECD countries (Annex C, Table
C-7). During the last decade, enrollments in the S-H track decreased 0.4 percent, whereas
enrollments in the T-VOC track increased by 62 percent. Enrollment trends also show changes
by type of provider: between 1990 and 1993, enrollments in secondary municipal, private-
subsidized, and Corporation schools decreased by 8.8, 13.9, and 9.3 percent respectively, while
in the private-paid secondary schools it increased by 5.6 percent.
2.11  Within the T-VOC track, students are enrolled in one of five areas (among which are
more than 30 specializations): 41.8 percent in the commercial sector; 35 percent in the industrial
sector; 16.7 percent in the technical sector; 4.8 percent in the agricultural sector; and 1.7
percent in the maritime sector. Within the five T-VOC areas mentioned above, women's
enrollment tends towards the commercial and technical specializations.
2.12  Teachers and Supervisors. From the 50,000 total secondary education teachers,
approximately 88 percent are assigned to in-classroom teaching positions, while the rest hold
positions as school principals. Almost 45 percent of the teaching force is accountable to the
municipal authorities, 29 percent to government-subsidized private secondary school proprietors,
20 percent to private-paid secondary owners, and nearly 6 percent to the Corporations. There
are 163 secondary education supervisors in the system of which 74 percent are assigned to the S-
H track and 24 percent to the T-VOC track, yielding an approximate ratio of 9 publicly
subsidized schools per supervisor in the S-H track and 13 in the T-VOC track.



- 7 -
C. Relevant lssues in Secondary Education
2.13 The following diagnosis of Chile's secondary education system stems from: (i) 13
research studies financed under the MECE projecte'; (ii) a public consultation process involving
more than 35,000 parents, teachers, students, community leaders, and scholars, carried out
during 1992; (iii) an international workshop of secondary education scholars from around the
world, carried out in November of 1992; and (iv) a study tour of the secondary education
systems of Korea, Singapore, and Malaysia, carried out in 1992.
2.14 Chile's secondary education system has become increasingly outdated, inadequately
addressing new demands placed upon it by society and individuals in general. These new
demands stem from the global transformations associated with modernization which have
affected forms of production, family and social relationships, and political and cultural processes
and institutions. In the productive domain, modernization has implied increasingly complex
productive processes and rapid pace of technological change, which in turn has increased the
demand for a more flexible, retrainable and capable labor force. In the cultural sphere,
modernization has implied globalization of communications, resulting in an explosive expansion
of information and multi-media stimuli, which in turn requires that individuals have a much
deeper cognitive foundation than in the past. In the political domain, the emergence of a more
participatory and democratic order requires a better distribution of knowledge and societal codes,
which are key for ensuring social participation in public debate and decision making. Against
this backdrop of complex demands, there is consensus among experts and lay alike, that Chile's
secondary education institutions, curriculum, pedagogical processes and school practices, and
results are anachronistic, lacking, and inequitable. Thus the current secondary education system
in Chile is inadequately positioned to respond to societal, economic, and individual expectations.
2.15 The main issues affecting the Chilean secondary education system that will be addressed
by the project are: (a) low external efficiency manifested by the educational system's failure to
respond to the demands of individuals and to provide the higher-order thinking and problem-
solving skills required by tertiary education institutions, and the labor market; (b) low internal
efficiency reflected in high repetition and dropout rates, resulting in wastage of financial and
physical resources; (c) unacceptably low levels of quality indicated by low student cognitive
achievement; (d) high inequality expressed by the social distribution of educational opportunities
and results; and (e) weak institutional capacity to induce a modernization reform process.
2.16 External Inefficiency. There is a growing mismatch between the Chilean secondary
education's outcomes (student's levels of preparation) and the demands of individuals concerned,
3/    In the areas of curriculum development and evaluation results (4 studies),
pedagogical processes and school practices (3 studies), internal efficiency (1 study),
external efficiency (3 studies), pre and in-service teacher training (1 study), and
educational learning inputs (1 study)



- 8 -
the productive sectors, and the higher education system. This mismatch is caused by: (i) a rigid
and outdated secondary education structure; (ii) low capacity to update and review curriculum
and study plans; and (iii) weak linkages to the productive sector, especially among T-VOC
schools.
2.17 The secondary education structure, conceived in the 1940s and consolidated in the 1960s,
requires that graduates from primary school, at age 14, choose between two tracks without any
subsequent possibility of changing. Presently S-H schools are oriented only toward preparing
students for the university, even though fewer than half of all its students actually enter a higher
education institution. On the other hand, T-VOC schools are oriented solely towards preparing
mid-level technicians, even though, according to the latest 1990 CASEN household survey, 63
percent of its graduates are not absorbed by the labor market a year after graduation.
2.18 The subject-based curriculum was last reviewed in 1981, before passage of LOCE (para.
2.6), when MINEDUC was still solely responsible for setting the curriculum for both tracks.
The curriculum has since undergone two slight modifications, in 1984 and 1989 respectively.
Nevertheless, since LOCE empowered MINEDUC with setting the core curriculum and the
secondary schools with the task of defining the complementary curriculum, study plans, and
syllabi, the system has been without the capacity to do so. Among schools, only some private-
paid secondary schools have had the technical skills required to design and implement their
supplementary curriculums. Most schools also lack the necessary instruments to implement the
intended core curriculum, something that tends to go undetected and unattended by MINEDUC.
2.19 The productive and service sectors are not consulted on the current contents of the T-
VOC curriculum or ways to improve it; setting of certification standards; vocational and
placement opportunities; or recommended strategies for carrying out student and in-service
teacher training programs. The poor response of the T-VOC track to labor market demands is
reflected by the highly fragmented subject-based curriculum which provides mainly over-specific
manual skills, and limits the provision of a minimum set of higher-order general and specific
skills4' and theoretical knowledge demanded by the modern, privately driven, export-oriented
Chilean economy. The Government has not created a favorable environment for expansion and
improvement of private sector involvement in preemployment vocational schooling provided by
the T-VOC secondary schools. An exception here is constituted by the 88 T-VOC secondary
schools administered by the Corporations, which are better funded, better equipped, and have a
4/    General skills such as: (i) reading, writing, performing arithmetic and mathematical
operations, listening, and speaking; (ii) thinking creatively, making decisions,
solving problems, visualizing, knowing how to learn, and reasoning; and (iii)
displaying responsibility, self-esteem, sociability, self-management, integrity, and
honesty. Specific skills such as: (iv) identifying, organizing, planning, and
allocating resources (time, money, materials, and people); (v) working with others
in a harmonious way; (vi) acquiring and using information; (vii) understanding
complex systemic inter-relationships; and (viii) working with a variety of
technologies.



- 9 -
closer relationship with a targeted group of enterprises than the rest of the municipal and private-
subsidized T-VOC secondary schools.
2.20 Internal Inefficiency. Although Chile has a high transition rate between primary and
secondary education and. a high gross enrollment rate at the secondary level (76 percent), as
compared with the weighted rate for Latin America (47 percent), low internal efficiency remains
an issue. Low coverage, especially among rural and at-risk populations, high repetition and
dropout rates, and an excessively long average time to complete the prescribed four-year
secondary cycle, result in high wastage of human and physical resources.
2.21 Coverage. About 24 percent of the 14 to 17 year-old cohort (230,000 individuals) are
not covered by the Chilean secondary education system. There are two possible explanations for
this situation. From the demand side, it is possible that youngsters perceive completing
secondary education as having a high opportunity cost. This hypothesis is substantiated by tracer
studies showing that, for example: (i) S-H students who dropped out after their second year
gained employment at a rate similar to that of students finishing the full four years; and
(ii) students from the T-VOC track who dropped out after their second year had higher
employment levels than their S-H counterparts who actually finished the full secondary education
four-year cycle. This demand side hypothesis seems to be supported by the progressively
deteriorating rate of return to secondary education in Chile (Annex C, Table C-8). From the
supply side, circumstantial evidence indicates that some students, especially in marginal urban
and rural areas, lack access to secondary schools. This seems to be mainly a result of: (a) lack
of physical facilities that would be too costly to build and operate in remote rural areas; and
(b) inadequate special assistance programs to cover the costs of transportation, tuition, and
subsistence.
2.22 Repetition and Dropout Rates. Overall repetition at the secondary level was estimated
at 12 percent in 1993. Repetition was highest in the first grade of secondary education at 16.2
percent and remained high through the third grade before it decreased to 5.6 percent in the
fourth grade. Municipal schools show a repetition rate of 14.4 percent, which compared to
subsidized (11 percent), Corporations (9.8 percent), and private-paid schools (4 percent), is
significantly higher (Annex C, Table C-9). Average repetition rates are higher in the T-VOC
track (13.5 percent) than in the S-H modality (11 percent). Regions II (Antofagasta), III
(Atacama), IX (La Araucanfa), and XI (Aisen) registered the highest repetition rates in the
country ranging from 14 to nearly 18 percent (Annex C, Table C-10). The average dropout rate
for secondary education was 6.7 percent in 1992 (Annex C, Table C-9). The incidence of
dropout was highest during the first three years of the secondary cycle, especially the first year
which averaged 9.8 percent. A comparison by type of school shows that the dropout rate was
highest in municipal schools (8.4 percent), followed by private-subsidized (5.8 percent),
Corporations (5.4 percent), and private-paid schools (2.5 percent). Average dropout rates are
slightly higher in the T-VOC track (7.1 percent) than in the S-H modality (6.6 percent).
Regions I (Tarapaca), HI (Atacama), IX (La Araucanfa), and XI (Aisen) registered the highest
dropout rates in the country ranging from 7.8 to 8.1 percent (Annex C, Table C-10).



- 10-
2.23 Average Time to Complete the Secondary Education Cycle. The average time to
complete the prescribed four-year secondary cycle is 5.3 years, down from 5.7 years in the late
seventies. This shows a secondary education cohort completion-rate increase from 62.3 percent
to 68 percent for the 1975-80 and 1985-90 cohorts, respectively. At the outset, these data reveal
improvements in the system's internal efficiency. However, cohort analysis by types of
secondary schools indicates a different situation. The average completion time was markedly
higher among municipal schools (5.7 years), while lower in private-subsidized schools (5 years),
and lower still in private-paid schools (4.4 years) (Annex C, Table C-11). In terms of
completion rates for the 1985-90 cohort, 61.6 percent of students from municipal secondary
schools completed the cycle, compared to 73.6 percent from private-subsidized schools and 87.7
percent from private-paid schools. These inefficiencies, compounded with the ones manifested
in the basic cycle (late primary school entrance, and high repetition and dropout rates in the first
two grades, for example), cause nearly 31 percent of those enrolled in the first grade of
secondary education, and 32 percent in the second grade, to lag behind the expected standard age
(Annex C, Table C-12).
2.24 The system's low internal efficiency results from: (i) the unavailability of learning inputs
such as textbooks, school libraries, teaching materials, computer resources, and essential
infrastructure; (ii) the lack of teachers trained in modern pedagogical techniques and the use of
learning inputs; (iii) inadequately targeted special-assistance programs for low-income students;
and (iv) the lack of a curricular alternatives program for at-risk students.
2.25 Low Quality. Chile's secondary education system displays unsatisfactory levels of
learning in key areas (especially among low-income students), and deficient internal5' and
external' evaluation measuring systems to monitor student and system performance. A
nationally representative evaluation in Spanish, math, and general abilities2' was carried out in
1992. The measurement in Spanish revealed that the average of correct answers for 9th, 10th,
and 12th grade students from the private-paid subsystem was slightly over 50 percent, whereas
Sl     Through internal evaluations (essays, quizzes, tests, homework, and classroom
questions), teachers discover what students already know and what they still need to
learn. Internal evaluations are early-warning signs of learning problems, and
effective detection mechanisms of high-risk students, which teachers can then correct
before they worsen.
6/l    Through external evaluations by means of standardized tests, educational authorities
discover the discrepancies between the intended (official) curriculum, the one being
taught by the teachers, and the one being learned by the students. External
evaluations are used to measure achievement of national educational goals, targets,
and policies.
7/     The test was carried out by a team of specialists contracted by MINEDUC. The
team used a random sample of 6,000 students from 6 different regions, attending
138 secondary schools of both types. The test criterion used was the minimum
levels of achievement defined for the different tested grades in the official syllabus.



- 11 -
students from the municipal and private-subsidized schools attained only between 39 and 48
percent of correct answers. For math, the results were even worse, with the elite of private-paid
schools answering around 40 percent of the questions correctly, and the municipal and private-
subsidized schools achieving between 20 and 29 percent correctly. These tests also seem to
indicate that student achievement in Spanish and math worsens as they progress through the
secondary system (Annex C, Table C-13). Low learning is generated by: (i) the use of outdated
pedagogical practices; (ii) the lack of appropriate learning inputs; and (iii) the lack of internal
evaluation instruments.
2.26 Pedagogical Practices. The predominant teaching practices in the Chilean secondary
education system are characterized by their recourse to traditional "frontal teaching" forms
manifested by: excessive use of dictation; strong emphasis on drilling; unilateral transmission of
information by the teacher; strict correspondence between what is directly taught and what is
tested in internal evaluations; and the rare use of textbooks, teaching materials, computers,
school libraries, and project research methodologies. Available evidence suggests that teaching
materials are not presented in a rational, orderly, and integrated fashion, and that students are
not allowed to practice and apply what they have learned, particularly with regard to integrating
knowledge taught with their own life experiences.
2.27 Teachers are a key factor in delivering quality educational services. There is evidence to
suggest that many secondary education teachers lack the necessary knowledge of the subject
matter, while others lack modern teaching practices. Supervisors on the other hand, are
supposed to provide support to directors and teachers at the school and classroom level.
Presently, however, supervisors for secondary education are ill-prepared to carry out their
functions appropriately, due to: (a) a lack of preparation on appropriate classroom problem-
solving pedagogical strategies and techniques; and (b) insufficient resources to serve the large
number of existing schools and teachers. As a result, most rural secondary schools are not
visited by the supervisors during the school year.
2.28 Learning Inputs. The use of learning inputs (textbooks, teaching materials, teacher
guides, school libraries, computers, and school infrastructure) in an appropriate manner has been
shown to increase the quality of education. Chile does not have an official policy concerning the
availability and use of educational inputs in secondary schools. In striking contrast to primary
education, MINEDUC neither distributes texts to secondary students, nor provides guidelines for
teachers on their correct application. Consequently, manufacturers of learning and teaching
materials lack the necessary signals needed to guide their design and supply. Also, there is
limited institutional capacity, both at MINEDUC and among teachers, to correctly evaluate
learning materials available in the market.
2.29 Since textbooks are not required, MINEDUC does not attempt to ensure that books
currently used are adequate. Suggested bibliographies are based more on what has been
historically used in different subject areas than on any careful consideration on their content.
Still, textbooks are used in some schools, especially private-paid schools, while in other schools,
photocopies of old editions are common. When textbooks are used, they often contain exercises



- 12 -
and lessons that fail to promote higher-order skills. Municipal and subsidized schools often have
an inadequate supply of supplementary teaching materials such as globes and educational videos,
slide projectors, natural science kits, and physics and chemistry sets; lack laboratories and
workshops, in spite of the existing S-H study plan requiring their use; and also lack more
expensive but still cost-effective resources, such as classroom libraries and computers. Private
and Corporation schools have a larger, yet still inadequate, supply of these materials. Most
schools lack educational computer software, which has become a promising alternative to
laboratory and workshop equipment for science teaching.
2.30 Many secondary schools lack the essential infrastructure necessary to comply with
MINEDUC's requirements. Data from 1985 show that 22.5 percent of schools do not have
adequate space or facilities to carry out their programs of study. When schools that combine
primary and secondary school classes are considered, the above figure rises to 28.3 percent.
2.31 Evaluation. Neither MINEDUC nor schools and teachers currently have the capacity to
adequately monitor and evaluate the implementation of the intended curriculum and student
performance. The absence of proper internal and external evaluations in Chile has contributed to
the reduction or dilution of educational content, and has deprived the system of key self-
correction and monitoring mechanisms, with serious implications for the quality of teaching and
student results. Teachers tend to evaluate students mainly by their memorization of fragmented
information taught by them. Up to 1992, there was no cognitive achievement measuring system
for secondary education. The Bank-financed MECE project laid the groundwork for establishing
one, which led to a pilot test in 1992.
2.32 Inequities. Inequities in the delivery and quality of secondary school services are
reflected by disparities in: (i) participation rates; (ii) type of schools attended; (iii) standardized
academic achievement; and (iv) access to higher education and employment outcomes.
2.33 Participation Rates. Only 73 percent of the lowest-income quintile individuals of
secondary school age have access to the system. When they do, they usually attend lower-
quality municipal secondary schools. Meanwhile, 96 percent of the higher-income quintile
individuals participate, most by attending the better-equipped private-paid schools (Annex C,
Table C-14). Nearly 52 percent of the rural 14 to 17 year-old cohort does not attend secondary
school (Annex C, Table C-15). Distribution of secondary educational coverage by region
reveals differences of up to 25 percentage points - the first region has the highest coverage (92
percent) while the VII, IX and X regions have less than 67 percent (Annex C, Table C-15).
Only 59 percent of municipal schools students finish the full cycle in comparison to 88 percent
of students attending private-paid secondary schools. It takes municipal secondary students an
average of 1.3 more years to graduate from the four-year cycle than private-paid students.
2.34 Type of School Attended. There is a clear relation between a student's socio-economic
status and the type of school attended: 82 percent of municipal school enrollments come from
low-income households, compared to only 58 percent from private-subsidized schools.
Conversely, private-paid school enrollments are almost solely made up of students from upper-



- 13 -
income households (Annex C, Table C-16). Not surprisingly, students from private-paid elite
schools are vastly over-represented in the university system, and hold some of the best positions
in the labor market. Among the publicly funded schools, municipal schools are clearly the most
disadvantaged in preparing students for insertion to the labor market and the higher education
system, followed by private-subsidized schools and then by the Corporations, which are almost
an elite among this latter group of schools.
2.35 Standardized Academic Achievement. A test administered in 1992 shows that for
Spanish skills, about one-fourth of the municipal S-H schools and more than half of the T-VOC
secondary schools, which are almost solely attended by low-income students, ranked at the
lowest levels. With regards to math skills, nearly 40 percent of all municipal S-H and T-VOC
schools ranked at the lowest end of the spectrum. By contrast, over half the private-paid schools
ranked at the upper level in both Spanish and math (Annex C, Table C-17).
2.36 Higher Education and Employment Outcomes. Nowhere are the secondary school
system's inequalities more evident than in students' access to tertiary education and employment
opportunities. Only five percent of those belonging to the lowest-income households continue
onto tertiary education, compared to 45 percent of those belonging to higher-income households.
About 18 percent of low-income household graduates would be unemployed after graduating
from secondary school, compared to two percent of student coming from higher-income
households (Annex C, Table C-18). For a society like the Chilean, which states its adherence
to principles of equality of opportunity and social mobility, the inequality of the secondary
school system is a worrisome issue. Similarly, for a society that is increasingly aware of the
value of its human resources, the costs of wasting the talent of the majority is also a major issue.
2.37 Weak Sectoral Institutional Capability. Since early 1993, the Bank-assisted MECE
project (Ln. 3410-CH) has been financing several activities to strengthen managerial skills at all
levels of the education system (central, regional, provincial, municipal, and school level). These
activities have involved: (i) staff training; (ii) development and delivery of operational manuals;
(iii) provision of office and communication equipment (vehicles, photocopiers, computers and
peripheral equipment and software, fax machines, and office furniture); and (iv) strengthening of
the management information system (MIS). Nevertheless, due to initial implementation delays,
institutional weaknesses persist. Consequently, many reforms and interventions which had been
programmed in order to address problems of efficiency, quality, and equity at the primary level
are still pending.
2.38 Weak institutional capacity stems primarily from the limited ability of: (a) MINEDUC to
effectively translate educational policies and strategies into concrete programs, target resources
to deprived schools through the municipalities, and periodically monitor sector achievements;
(b) the municipalities to execute educational programs derived from sector policies, and
administer the resources of municipal schools in an efficient manner; and (c) school
administrators to adequately implement technical-pedagogical supervision and school
management programs. Of the activities programmed to date, MINEDUC has effectively
supplied all administrative offices at the central and decentralized levels with office and



- 14 -
telecommunication equipment and vehicles. Meanwhile, the activities which are behind schedule
are: (i) strengthening managerial skills at all levels of decision-making through training; (ii)
developing practical manuals for planning, programming, and monitoring; and (iii) strengthening
of the sector's MIS.
2.39 Financing and Expenditure Issues. Chile's public spending on education (from both,
central and municipal own-generated resources) declined significantly from 5.5 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 2.8 percent in 1990 before increasing slightly to 3.0 percent in 1992. As a share of
total public expenditures, public education spending decreased from 12.3 percent in 1982 to 9.1
in 1988 and then increased to 11.2 percent in 1992 (Annex D, Table D-1). The increments
registered in public education spending since 1992 are largely a result of the: (i) increases in
school subsidies; (ii) increases in teachers salaries due to the enactment of the Teachers Statute
Law (1991); and (iii) Bank-financed MECE project (Ln 3410-CH). Despite this slight recovery,
public financing of education is still characterized by a general level of underinvestment, limited
funding sources, and the concentration of expenditures on recurrent salaries.
2.40 Underinvestment in Education. Public education sector spending in Chile, at 3.2
percent of GDP, is still low compared to the 4 percent of GDP spent in Latin America as a
whole, 4.4 percent in Latin America's middle-income countries, and 6.4 in the OECD countries
(Annex D, Table D-2). Chile devotes only 11.2 percent of its budget to education, which also is
small relative to the LAC average of 16.6 percent, yet only slightly below the share assigned by
OECD countries (12.8 percent). Chile's per-student spending on pre-university education was
about US$320 in 1992!', about twice the average of US$171 for upper middle-income countries
worldwide, yet only one-tenth the approximate OECD average of US$3,500 per year.
2.41 Sources of Funding. Almost 52 percent of spending in education in 1992, including
funds from the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR) and the subsidy transfers to the
municipal and the private-subsidized schools, came from the federal budget. Overall, the share
of private contribution to education has kept pace with increases in public financing. The
greatest increase in private financing has been at the university level, where payments grew in
the 1989-92 period from 19 percent of total educational spending to over 21 percent (or roughly
40 percent of total private funding). The pre-university level private funding experienced a
slight decrease from 31 percent in 1989 to 29 percent in 1992 (Annex D, Table D-3).
2.42 Recurrent Salary Expenditures. According to 1992 data, nearly 80 percent of all
public educational expenditure is allocated to teachers' salaries and social benefits, somewhat
below the Latin America average of about 85 percent. Meanwhile, the remaining is used as
follows: 16.8 percent is transferred to 20 public and private universities; 2.6 percent for
recurrent operating costs; 0.8 percent for school construction and maintenance; and 0.3 percent
for textbook provision (Annex D, Table D-4). The 1992 outlays for textbooks and teaching
materials increased 275 percent compared to 1990, as a consequence of implementing MECE.
8/    This increases to about US$367 per student for all educational levels if subsidies to
higher education are also included.



- 15 -
2.43 Distribution of Expenditures. Public expenditure on education has increased by 0.4
percent per annum in real terms since 1980. This trend is observable across most educational
levels, albeit at different annual rates: preschool education 3.1 percent; basic education 2.9
percent; and T-VOC secondary education 3.2 percent. The exceptions are in the S-H secondary
education track and the transfers to higher education, which have decreased by 0.1 and 4.3
percent respectively (Annex D, Table D-5). Noteworthy are the following trends observed
during the 1980-92 period: preschool expenditures, as a proportion of total educational
expenditures, rose from 6.1 percent to 8.4 percent; primary education expenditures rose from
39.6 to 53.1 percent; expenditures on T-VOC secondary education track climbed from 5.3
percent to 7.4 percent; while spending in the S-H secondary track and higher education transfers
decreased from 8.8 to 8.3 percent and 35.2 to 19.8 percent, respectively (Annex D, Table D-6).
The increases in preschool and primary education are a consequence of MECE, increases in
teachers' salaries and school subsidies.
D. Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
2.44 In contrast to primary education, where extensive research and policy proposals laid the
groundwork for MECE, secondary education lacked an analytical base to guide any
interventions. The Aylwin Government assigned its educational spending priority to preschool
and primary education, since it was acutely aware of the need to start from the lower levels
upwards. Concurrently with implementing the MECE project, the Aylwin Government initiated
activities aimed at developing a strategy for improving secondary education. For instance, with
financing from the MECE project, MINEDUC carried out 13 studies in 1992-93 (para. 2.13).
Additionally, a public consultative process which included more than 35,000 educational system
stakeholders was carried out during 1992 to inform and raise the level of awareness regarding
issues facing the subsector, and to gather stakeholder's views on these issues. Furthermore, a
workshop was held in Santiago in November 1992, attended by international scholars in the
field, to review the worldwide experience in dealing with secondary education issues and to
propose possible solutions. Finally, a study tour was carried out in 1992 by key sectoral actors
in charge of policy design, in conjunction with Bank staff assisting project preparation, to
observe the secondary education systems in Korea, Singapore, and Malaysia.
2.45 The Frei Government has built on this work and raised education to a new order of
priority. The Minister of Finance announced on August of 1994, that education would top the
Government's priority list during its 6-year term. By acknowledging the importance of
education in achieving sustained economic growth, the Government will significantly increase the
percent of GDP devoted to education, with a target of 7 percent to be reached in the next 8
years. This increase would have to be assumed and shared by both the public and private
sectors. Some of the future investments outlined by the Minister for the education sector include:
(i) modernization of the curriculum; (ii) improved school effectiveness and efficiency; and
(iii) improved management of the sector. The Government also made public the results of an
Advisory Committee on the Modernization of the Education Sector, specially commissioned by



- 16 -
the President, titled "Los Desaftos de la Educacidn Chilena Frente a! Siglo 21 v. This
document recommends: (i) enhancing the quality. of basic and secondary education;
(ii) reforming secondary education; (iii) strengthening the teaching profession; (iv) providing
more flexibility to sector management; and (v) increasing public and private sector financing of
the sector. This document will serve as the groundwork for forging a consensus regarding a
future "Structural Reform" envisioned for Chile's education system.
2.46 With inputs from the studies, the workshop and public consultation, the Government has
devised a working strategy to improve secondary education in three sequential, and
complementary, steps. The first step involved the implementation of a "Pilot Program' during
the second semester of 1994, comprising limited targeted activities for approximately 100,000
students in 124 secondary schools throughout the country. Second, starting in January 1995, the
Government initiated the execution of a more comprehensive "Quality Improvement Program
(MECE-EM)" comprising a wide range of activities which address the system's overall low
quality, internal and external inefficiencies, and inequities in all publicly financed secondary
schools. The Pilot Program was utilized as a testing ground for the design and implementation
of certain activities included in MECE-EM. The third phase, to be carried out by the end of the
decade, consists of the implementation of a "Structural Reform" for the secondary education
system, based on the results of MECE-EM and the consensus which is expected to emerge from
the work of the Presidential Advisory Committee.
2.47 Pilot Program. This program has channeled US$5.4 million towards the: (a) acquisition
of books for school libraries and teaching materials; (b) provision of computer equipment;
(c) provision of essential school infrastructure to house the library, computer equipment, and
teacher's rooms; (d) implementation of alternative curricular activities for at-risk students; and
(e) provision of in-service teacher training. The 124 participating schools were selected on the
basis of vulnerability21, low scores in academic achievement tests, a minimum enrollment of
500 students per school, and low mobility of its teaching personnel. The pilot program has been
absorbed by the larger MECE-EM project (para. 2.48).
2.48 Quality Improvement Project (MECE-EM). The Government is financing the
execution of MECE-EM in CY95 with counterpart funds amounting to US$13.4 million. The
activities included under this project rest upon three sets of actions, and are aimed at the publicly
financed secondary schools. First, actions to: (i) enhance the teaching and learning of higher-
order thinking and problem-solving skills; (ii) develop evaluation capacity; (iii) establish
alternative curricular activities to address students' expectations and demands in their
supplementary time; and (iv) develop new links between the secondary school system and the
private productive sector. Second, actions to: (v) change teaching and school practices;
9/    Using the vulnerability methodology designed and implemented by the Junta
Nacional de Auxilio Escolar y Becas (JUNAEB). This methodology comprises: the
student's socio-economic and nutritional status; the school's repetition and dropout
rates; and the school classification as determined by a nation-wide poverty map.



- 17 -
(vi) promote grassroots (teachers, directors and supervisors) participation in designing and
implementing school-based quality development projects; and (vii) provide learning inputs
comprising textbooks, teaching materials, school libraries, computing equipment and software,
infrastructure and technical assistance. Third, actions to continue strengthening sectoral
management. The Bank has been requested to assist in the financing of some of the above-
mentioned components.
2.49 Structural Reform. The Government recognizes that the present basic eight-grade
compulsory education system is obsolete, since the majority of its graduates go on to a
secondary education system that is outdated from the standpoint of its social, educational, and
skill contents. There is clearly a need to redefine the length of compulsory education in the
context of the modernization trends currently shaping the Chilean society. According to the
available evidence, this plan is consistent with changes that other secondary education structures
(in more developed economies, and the Pacific Rim countries) have made to their curricula,
teaching methods and school practices. Based on the evaluated results of the Pilot Program and
the Bank-financed MECE-EM, as well as the consensus which emerges from the forthcoming
national debate, reforms could be structured along the following lines: (a) extension of the length
of compulsory education from 8 to 10 years; (b) postponement of the decision period for
choosing between the S-H and T-VOC track until the end of the 10th grade (at the age of 16)
rather than at the current 8th grade (at the age of 14); (c) enhancement of the teaching and
learning of higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills in the newly defined subject-based
curriculum to be provided in the compulsory secondary cycle (9th and 10th grades); and (d)
more differentiation in the non-compulsory secondary cycle (11th and 12th grades), with
connecting channels allowing for second choices, so that the S-H track would not be exclusively
oriented towards university studies, and the T-VOC track would stop being conceived as dead-
end and specialized in terms of specific job positions, and thus become more attuned to
changeable occupational markets.
E. Bank Role and Strategy
2.50 To date, the Bank has supported four projects in Chile's education sector. The first two
(Vocational Training Project, Ln. 0431-CH for US$2.7 million, and Second Vocational Training
Project, Ln. 0666-CH for US$1.5 million, approved in 1965 and 1970, respectively) were aimed
at expanding the training capacity of the National Institute for Vocational Training (INACAP).
The projects were successfully implemented, and assisted in making INACAP an outstanding
training institution. The third project (Third Education Project, Ln. 0668-CH for US$7.0
million, approved in 1970) supported the MINEDUC in its efforts to expand and improve
primary teacher training colleges and technical agricultural secondary schools. This project was
implemented prematurely since the country's policies in this area were only in their formative
stage at the time. Furthermore, project implementation coincided with a period of political
turmoil, which contributed to many project objectives not being achieved.



- 18 -
2.51 The fourth project (MECE, Ln. 3410-CH for US$170 million, approved in 1991),
currently under execution, aims to assist the Government in: (a) enhancing the efficiency,
quality, and equity of primary education in selected schools in targeted rural and urban areas;
(b) expanding coverage and enhancing the quality of preschool education to increase primary
school preparedness and reduce late entry, repetition, and dropout rates, especially targeted to 5-
year-old children living in poverty conditions; (c) strengthening the institutional capacity of
MINEDUC, its regional and provincial educational departments, and the municipalities, as well
as the managerial skills of principals in municipal and private subsidized preschool and primary
school; and (d) assessing alternative cost-effective approaches to meet the secondary education
needs of primary graduates. Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Many components
(school-based quality improvement projects-PMEs; the school computer network; rural micro-
centers; distribution of textbooks, reading resource centers and teaching materials; health
screening and referral; civil works; and the distribution of office equipment, vehicles,
computers, and supplies to MINEDUC's decentralized offices) have exceeded expected targets.
As of December 31, 1994, the project has disbursed over 35 percent of the total loan. In
addition to these projects, the Bank has assisted the Government during the past decade with 23
projects, amounting to approximately US$2.4 billion, in the following sectors: infrastructure
(eight projects), housing (two projects), health (two projects), public sector enterprise (one
project), technical assistance (four projects), and structural adjustment (six projects). These
projects have helped the Government to attain macroeconomic stability, adopt a market
economy, liberalize trade, and promote private sector participation.
2.52  The Govemment of Chile and the Bank have recently agreed upon a new assistance
modality that reflects Chile's continued desire for the Bank's technical assistance and advisory
services along with its reduced need for resource transfers in view of its strong external position.
The first Country Assistance Strategy document for Chile, which reflects this new assistance
modality, is being prepared for Board consideration in May 1994. A fundamental feature of the
Bank's strategy is the emphasis on selectivity, focussing both sector work and limited new
lending exclusively on key areas identified by the Government as priorities in its development
agenda. One of these determinant areas in which the Government has requested Bank assistance
is the education sector. The education sector has been singled out as this Administration's
highest priority, both to increase productivity and to improve further social conditions. The
Government looks for the Bank's assistance in this project in view of our already close
involvement under previous and ongoing operations in the sector. The Government also seeks to
benefit from the Bank's international experience in the field of secondary education, considered
of fundamental importance towards improving the country's international competitiveness and
meeting its future economic growth objectives. The project is consequently fully consistent with
the country assistance strategy for Chile.
2.53 Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The IDB approved in 1994 a US$60 million
Training Program Loan for Chile aimed at assisting SENCE to provide non-formal training to
unskilled workers from all sectors of the economy in order to increase their productivity.



- 19 -
F. Lessons LearnedLo'
2.54 Sustainability. To ensure that Bank-financed education projects will continue to produce
benefits beyond their completion, countries need to develop or maintain a sense of project
ownership. Involving policy-makers and technical staff from the early stages of project
identification and design is one of the best strategies to achieve this goal. Also, local
involvement in project preparation helps to ensure that project goals are in agreement with
national goals. Other elements of project sustainability are: (i) defining both long- and short-
term project objectives so as to facilitate implementation, monitoring, and evaluation;
(ii) addressing from the very beginning the issue of counterpart funding; and (iii) addressing the
issue of institutional strengthening for project implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.
During preparation of the MECE-EM project, MINEDUC, through the Project Preparation Unit
(PPU) of MECE, has taken an active role in defining the project. Project implementation is
envisaged through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of MECE, modified to allow
simultaneous coordination of the Bank-financed secondary education project (MECE-EM) and
transferring of the day to day coordination of MECE to MINEDUC. The PCU would be part of
MINEDUC's organizational structure. Furthermore, the Government has allocated counterpart
funds in its Budget Law of CY95 for MECE-EM amounting to US$ 13.4 million equivalent.
During appraisal the Government made available the necessary counterpart funding information
required for project execution for 1996 through 2000 (para. 7.2(d)).
2.55 Textbooks, School-Libraries, and Teaching Materials. The success of a textbook,
school library and teaching material component is directly related to the extent to which the
project design addresses all aspects of their selection, publication or procurement, distribution,
storage, usage, and financing. The key problems encountered in this component are:
(i) incapacity to supply books and teaching materials continuously due to lack of funding,
10/    This section is based on: (i) a review of 24 Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPAR), project completion Reports, and Staff Appraisal Reports from the LAC,
Asia, and Africa regions, as well as the Form 590-Supervision Reports for MECE
(Loan 3410-Ch); (ii) recommendations from the following Bank documents and
reports: The Sustainability of Investment Projects in Education, Report No.
9225, OED, 1991; Lending for Learning: Twenty Years of World Bank Support
for Basic Education, Report WPS 686, PHR, 1991; Effective Implementation:
Key to Development Impact, Report of the World Bank's Portfolio Management
Task Force, 1992; Textbooks in the Developing World: Economic and
Educational Choices, EDI, 1989; Education Decentralization in Latin America:
Lessons Learned, Report No. 27, LATHR, 1992; Developing Educational
Assessment Systems in Latin America, Report No. 9, LATHR, 1991; and,
Decentralization in Education: An Economic Perspective, Report WPS 143,
PHR, 1989; (iii) Discussion Papers from the Education and Training Series (EDT
Reports) No. 20 (1985), No. 21 (1985), No. 50 (1986), and No. 53 (1987); (iv)
annual review of the education sector in the Operations and Evaluation Department
Annual Reviews from 1984 to 1988; and (v) A World Bank Policy Paper:
Primary Education, 1990.



- 20 -
inadequate institutional arrangements, and poor distribution and coordination; (ii) inadequate
attention to the selection of book and teaching material and evaluation of their use by the
teachers and students; (iii) neglect of aspects related to book and teaching material utilization,
such as teacher and parents' training; and (iv) conflicts between government and local publishers
and teaching material manufacturers. MECE-EM will address these issues by: (i) establishing a
policy on the use of quality textbooks and instructional materials; (ii) sending signals to
manufacturers of textbooks and instructional materials to guide their supply; and (iii) developing
institutional capacity to choose learning materials available in the market, involving teachers in
the selection and evaluation of learning materials. MECE-EM has incorporated the experience
gained in the execution of MECE's textbook componente since 1992.
2.56 In-service Teacher Training. Support for in-service teacher training should distinguish
activities designed to certify untrained teachers from activities geared to upgrading the skills and
knowledge of current teachers. In the latter case a distinction should be made between
improving general subject matter knowledge and improving teaching skills, especially with the
use of textbooks and reading materials. The latter programs are generally successful when they
are designed and implemented in the teacher's work environment. MECE-EM builds upon three
years experience derived from the execution of MECE's in-service teacher training component.
MECE-EM will include an intensive, locally initiated and implemented teacher training
component to upgrade teachers' skills in the use of textbooks, school libraries, teaching
materials, and computers, as well as in the design and implementation of school-based quality
development subprojects.
2.57 Evaluation. To develop the country's assessment capabilities it is necessary to: (i) define
assessment policies and objectives, and disseminate results; and (ii) incorporate trained
psychometricians and statisticians as part of the required staff. Moreover, it is desirable to:
(i) operate the system outside the govemment, maintaining in the latter only the formulation of
assessment policies, test development and monitoring, and dissemination of results; and
(ii) allocate funds to research the assessment information being collected. Chile has developed a
reliable standardized measuring system for cognitive achievement in basic education. This
experience is being incorporated into the evaluation component of MECE-EM.
2.58 Institutional Development. For central and decentralized management to be effective it
is essential to have: (i) a political commitment to implement the changes advocated; (ii) a
rational distribution of responsibilities between central and regional authorities, in which the
former provides direction, formulates policy, monitors achievement, and performs evaluations,
and the latter operates and manages the day-to-day activities of the sector; (iii) accountability of
authorities; (iv) adequate resources; and (v) an implementation strategy. MECE-EM builds upon
the institutional strengthening activities implemented by MECE to strengthen the decentralization
process and sectoral managerial capability.
2.59 All of these lessons, as well as the Bank's worldwide experience, have been taken into
account in the design of the project.



- 21 -
3. PROJECT OBJECTIMS AND DESCRIPTION
A. Project Objectives
3.1   The project (MECE-EM) seeks to improve the internal and external efficiency, quality,
and equity of all the municipal and government-subsidized private secondary schools (about
1,600), and to strengthen sectoral managerial capacity.
B. Project Description
3.2   MECE-EM would improve external efficiency by: (a) establishing a Curriculum
Planning and Evaluation Unit (CPEU) to reformulate the subject-based curriculum, for both the
scientific-humanistic (S-H) and technical-vocational (T-VOC) secondary schools, to enhance the
teaching and learning of higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills; (b) developing
evaluation capacity to monitor the consistency between the recommended (official) and the
learned curriculum; (c) establishing alternative curricular activities for socially and educationally
at-risk secondary students; and (d) providing incentives to strengthen the linkages between
targeted T-VOC secondary schools and the private sector in curriculum development, skill
certification, in-service teacher training, and the use of physical facilities. vECE-EM would
improve quality, equity, and internal efficiency by: (e) providing in-service teacher training to
change the predominantly one-dimensional teaching format based mainly on rote learning and
dictation, to more interactive methods; (f) establishing a fund to promote the design and
implementation of school-based educational development projects (PDEs); and (g) providing
educational resources (textbooks, school libraries, teaching materials, computers, and
infrastructure) in a targeted manner. MECE-EM would strengthen sectoral managerial
capacity by: (h) building upon existing institutional strengthening activities financed by the
Bank-assisted Primary Education Loan (Ln 3410-CH, MECE) within the current administrative
structure of the Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) and the municipalities; (i) strengthening the
managerial and leadership capacity of principals and the heads of school-curricular subject areas;
and (j) establishing and maintaining a technical support network (TSN) consisting of universities,
professional institutes, local and international experts, the private sector, and NGOs which would
provide technical assistance to participating secondary schools in training, development of
learning materials and curricular needs.
3.3   MECE-EM would provide school libraries, teaching materials and textbooks to all
participating schools during the first three years of the project. The remaining components of
MECE-EM would be implemented during the project's six year life and would cover schools
based on their demand for services offered and their fulfillment of the following criteria: (a)
implementation of in-service teacher training activities; (b) qualification as determined by



- 22 -
indicators which measure the schools' vulnerabilityl' relative to other schools; and
(c) unavailability of educational inputs similar to those allocated by the project as determined by
an inventory which would be carried out during the first year of project execution.
3.4   Reformulation of Curriculum and Development of Evaluation Capacity (US$ 5.2
million; 3.0 percent of total baseline cost). This component comprises the: (i) reformulation of
curriculum; and (ii) development of evaluation capacity. Curriculum reformulation would aim to
enhance the teaching and learning of higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills in a
subject-based curriculum, better address the heterogeneous characteristics of the secondary
education population, and assist MINEDUC fulfill its legal responsibility to implement the
LOCE Law. The development of evaluation capacity would help achieve consistency between
the intended (official) and the learned curriculum in both tracks of all the publicly financed
secondary schools.
3.5   Reformulation of Curriculum. The project would finance the: (a) establishment of a
small, well qualified Curriculum Planning and Evaluation Unit (CPEU) within MINEDUC;
(b) reformulation of the subject-based core curriculum; (c) development of 40 teaching and
learning material prototypes with the new curricular contents (curricular products including
educational videos, didactic materials, and teaching methodologies) to be procured and
disseminated to interested schools; (d) provision of technical assistance to interested secondary
schools through the TSN during the implementation of their corresponding syllabus;
(e) dissemination of curriculum innovations through bulletins, and other fora; (f) provision of
local and international technical assistance to help the CPEU carry out its functions; and
(g) study tours to observe curriculum reformulation and development of evaluation capacity in
other countries.
3.6   The CPEU would comprise a central team of six full-time senior experts in the areas of
curriculum development and evaluation. The CPEU would be assisted by about 31 curricular
specialists and 23 evaluation specialists working under short-term contracts not exceeding six
months. The CPEU would design and implement a core curriculum and corresponding syllabus
for both tracks of secondary education during the first two years of the project by: (a) analyzing
and selecting curricular areas requiring reformulation; (b) defining terms of reference to select
short-term consulting services to elaborate curricular proposals and syllabus on the selected
areas; (c) organizing expert discussions; (d) testing, validating and approving curricular
proposals; and (e) disseminating approved curricular proposals to all schools. The CPEU would
be responsible for elaborating, validating, producing, distributing, and administering external
evaluation and student certification instruments. With regard to external evaluation, the CPEU
would coordinate its activities with the Chilean Student Assessment System (SIMCE), which
currently mainly covers the primary level. The CPEU would ensure that assessment results are
analyzed, and that feedback is provided to educational policy makers and stakeholders. The
11/   JUNAEB's vulnerability criteria is a composite function measuring poverty (see
footnote 9). JUNAEB has been utilizing this criteria to target its ongoing feeding
and scholarship programs.



- 23 -
CPEU would ensure that interested teachers effectively implement internal testing instruments for
the subjects being taught.
3.7    For those schools not willing to implement the MINEDUC's syllabus, the project would
support their own initiatives of syllabus design, following the framework of the approved core
curriculum. These schools would identify their curricular areas requiring reformulation and then
could prepare a PDE project proposal aimed at reformulating their curriculum. PDEs would
compete for available grants to finance their implementation. Selected PDEs could access the
TSN for required technical assistance. The reformulation of school syllabus would be carried
out in the context of non-residential in-service teaching training sessions, which have borne
positive results for MECE in rural areas since 1992. This in-service teacher training strategy
has been adapted to secondary education under the Pilot Program. MECE-EM would finance
the design, reproduction and distribution of 30,000 dissemination bulletins.
3.8    Development of Evaluation Capacity. The project would finance computer hardware
and software, technical assistance, training, tests printing and distribution, scholarships, and
study tours to carry out periodic external and internal-W assessment measurements as well as
general and specific certifications. External evaluations would be targeted to a sample of about
80,000 senior students (12th grade) from 200 schools in both tracks in 1998 and the year 2000.
The CPEU, in conjunction with SIMCE, would ensure that: (a) information on progress by
secondary education students towards nationally established educational goals is available to
policy makers, teachers, and parents; and (b) tests meet stringent psychometric standards of
reliability and validity so that the information can be used to identify at-risk students, schools,
and municipalities. Internal evaluations would be developed by individual schools with the
appropriate technical assistance of the CPEU and the TSN. Teachers interested in implementing
internal testing instruments for the subjects and competencies being taught would access the TSN
through the in-service teacher training. The in-service teacher training would be carried out in
conjunction with the implementation of the core curriculum and syllabus reformulation, the
provision of the learning inputs, and other related actions to be provided by the project.
3.9    The project would finance the printing of 9,600 certification sets and 2,300 certification
manuals to carry out the general certification of all 10th grade students in both tracks, as well as
the specific certification of all 12th grade students from T-VOC schools. This latter certification
would be undertaken in the workplace where students could practice their acquired skills. The
general certification process would begin in 1998 (once the LOCE has been implemented in all
the secondary schools), and the specific certification process would start in 1996.
22/    External evaluations are performed by MINEDUC at the national level to measure
core-curriculum goal achievements. The unit of measurement is the school and the
instrument is a standardized cognitive achievement test. Internal evaluations are
performed by teachers to measure student cognitive achievement in specific modules
of the core curriculum. The unit of measurement is the student and the instrument
is a test designed by the teacher.



- 24 -
3.10 Alternative Curricular Activities for at-Risk Secondary Students. (US$ 13.1 million;
7.6 percent of total baseline cost). To address relevant societal issues emanating from
secondary education students, especially those at-risk of dropping out of school, and to foster a
more constructive use of student's supplementary time, the project would: (i) establish extra-
curricular alternatives in the arts, environment, sports, preventive health (specially concerning
AIDS, teenage pregnancy, and drugs), video-clubs, student leadership development, and
communication; and (ii) improve inter-school and inter-student relations through participatory
activities. This component was implemented under the Pilot Program in 124 schools in 1994,
and was modeled after an existing extra-curricular program administered by MINEDUC.
MECE-EM would expand this component to about 1,500 schools, at an average rate of about
320 per year. Interested schools would provide their facilities on Saturdays and during the entire
month of January, and would nominate two teachers, one paid by the project and the other by
the school proprietor, to monitor the implementation of these extra-curricular activities.
3.11  The project would finance the: (a) annual marginal cost of 320 teachers, and of 256
teachers during one month in the summer; (b) reproduction of about 3,000 sets of teacher
training materials; (c) implementation of 21 training events for 3,000 teachers; (d) acquisition of
nearly 27,000 sets of extra-curricular teaching materials and required equipment, especially for
the arts and sports; (e) provision of technical assistance; (f) distribution of 600,000 dissemination
bulletins; (g) implementation of national, regional, and local dissemination events; and
(h) execution of one impact evaluation study. MINEDUC would provide the necessary support
to teachers in implementing specific extra-curricular activities. Schools would be incorporated in
a demand-driven fashion, and would be entitled to remain in the program for a maximum of
three years, after which the extra-curricular activities would be financed by the school.
3.12 Linkages with the Private Productive Sector (US$ 0.7 million; 0.4 percent of total
baseline cost). Ihis component would strengthen the linkage between the private sector and
T-VOC secondary schools by: (a) providing in-service teacher training fellowships for T-VOC
teachers in a private sector working environment; (b) establishing mechanisms to foster the
participation of the private sector in the design of a core curriculum and the specifications of
skill certification of T-VOC students; and (c) implementing a dissemination campaign to inform
the private sector about the benefits of the Law 19,247 of September 15, 1993, which is geared
toward increasing private sector contributions to education.
3.13 The project would finance a two-week residential in-service teacher training fellowship
for 1,500 teachers (two teachers per interested T-VOC secondary schools) in selected private
firms attuned to the specifics of the participating school. The project would also assist
participating private firms in designing, implementing, and monitoring the in-service teacher
training which would take place in their own facilities. Participating firms would design the
training modules for groups comprising about 20 teachers from 10 T-VOC schools.
3.14 The project would finance 32 staff-months of local consultants to elaborate and validate:
(i) occupational profiles in 15 agricultural, industrial, commercial and mining professional
clusters; and (ii) a manual explaining norms and procedures for evaluating students' occupational



- 25 -
proficiency after having graduated from their senior year and completed their compulsory work
periods in the firms. To this end, the project would also finance the training of the T-VOC
school supervisors and the publication of 2,300 manuals.
3.15 The project would finance the: (a) organization of eight seminars to inform school
principals and private firms about the regulations and mechanisms for using the fiscal incentives
provided by the Law 19.247; and (b) production of dissemination brochures illustrating, with
concrete examples, how to apply the incentives.
3.16 The project would encourage interested T-VOC secondary schools to prepare school-
based initiatives (PDEs) to promote the participation of private firms in the delivery of technical-
vocational education-L'.
3.17 In-service Teacher Training (US$ 3.2 million; 1.9 percent of total baseline cost). The
project would help modify teaching practices and support an improved teaching force capable of:
(a) using appropriately the newly defined subject-based core curriculum, corresponding syllabus,
and curricular products to enhance the teaching and learning of higher-order thinling and
problem-solving skills; (b) applying testing instruments to periodically monitor the progress of
individual students; (c) using effectively the instructional resources financed by the project;
(d) designing and implementing PDEs; and (e) participating in the alternative curricular activities
for at-risk secondary students.
3.18 The proposed in-service teacher training methodology was developed by MECE, and was
utilized by the Pilot Program in 124 secondary schools during 1994. This strategy departs from
the traditional, residential training programs aimed at improving general teacher subject-
knowledge, which have been proven ineffective worldwide. The proposed training is provided
in the teacher's own work environment (the school), and consists of intensive on-site, locally
initiated workshops (School Professional Groups - SPG) of interested teachers, school principals
and supervisors working on specific teaching themes selected by the participants (for example,
use of instructional resources, and use of internal evaluation instruments). Each SPG would
consist of about 15 participants. The project would finance the: (a) implementation of 20
training workshops for 150 supervisors to implement approximately 3,000 working SPGs in
1,600 schools; (b) production of training materials including 3,200 videos, 521,000 pedagogical
modules for teachers, 120,000 teacher manuals and monitoring guidelines, and 600 supervisory
guidelines; (c) monitoring of the SPGs; (d) technical assistance for the SPGs; and (e) evaluation
of the SPGs' impact.
3.19 School-based Quality Educational Development Projects (PDEs). (US$ 20.5 million;
11.9 percent of total baseline cost). In accordance with the general decentralizing principles
13/   Several development financing agencies, such as ORT, USAID, and the Ministry of
Economic Development of the German Govermment (GTZ), have manifested an
interest in supporting school-firm projects in Chile.



- 26 -
framing the government's sectoral objectives, and the experience of MECEP', the project
would support secondary school-based initiatives (PDEs) focused on quality improvement and
institutional development. Grants would be provided on a competitive basis to locally designed
PDEs aiming to promote increased school participation and autonomy by allowing them to
decide how, where, and when to spend additional non-personnel, non-recurrent financial
resourcesli'. Grants would be targeted to subsidized secondary schools from both tracks,
which would participate individually or in clusters of schools behind a common project theme.
Schools would be eligible to receive a grant ranging between US$2,500 and US$15,000
equivalent per school, depending on the ehrollment and the merits of the proposed PDE.
3.20 The project would finance the: (a) design and implementation of approximately 2,000
PDEs (each Bank-financed grant would fund up to 80 percent of the cost of each eligible PDE);
(b) training of supervisors responsible for assisting secondary school teachers and principals in
preparing their PDEs; (c) development of approximately 18,500 sets of training materials, 8,100
manuals, 1,600 training videos, 1,000 evaluation guidelines, 30,000 information brochures,
2,700 dissemination posters, and 4,300 applications to participate in the program;  (d)
monitoring of PDEs in execution; (e) carrying out of about 160 regional and provincial PDE
exchange workshops to inform school stakeholders of successful subprojects, and foster cross-
fertilization among teachers, school principals and students from different schools; and
(f) carrying out of a longitudinal evaluation to describe PDE's processes and measure their
impact.
3.21 This component would be implemented gradually to allow the system to obtain feedback,
learn from experience, and adjust itself by introducing appropriate changes based on close
monitoring. Accordingly, during 1995 the project would finance the preparation of the required
training and dissemination materials, as well as undertaking the first training workshops for
supervisors. During 1996, 120 PDEs would be funded on a competitive basis. The following
four years, 360, 620, 560, and 340 PDEs would be included, respectively. Interested schools
could be granted up to a maximum of two PDEs during the entire life of the project. Schools
wishing to prepare two PDEs would be encouraged to do so sequentially rather than
concurrently, at least during the first three years of project execution. The execution of PDEs
would not exceed three years. To qualify for project financing, eligible schools would enter into
an agreement with MINEDUC under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank prior to the
disbursements of Loan proceeds. Eligible PDEs would receive financing through three payments
14/   Nearly 2,000 school-based quality improvement grants have been funded by MECE
since 1992.
15/   PDEs will be reviewed and ranked by trained secondary school supervisors from a
DEPROV different to the one having jurisdiction over the school. The supervisors
will be trained by MECE-EM to rank projects based on the following criteria:
relevance in addressing quality, efficiency, and/or equity school issues; project
formulation consistency and cohesiveness; population to be benefitted; sustainability;
and replicability. Evaluation guidelines and procedures will be developed by
MECE-EM.



- 27 -
representing 40, 30, and 30 percent of total PDE cost, respectively. The first payment would be
made by MINEDUC to the eligible school through the corresponding SEREMI with counterpart
funding from MINEDUC at the signing of the agreement, which would then be reimbursed by
the Loan when the SEREMI has documented this expenditure. Further payments by MINEDUC
to the eligible schools, through the SEREMI, would be made when the eligible schools have
issued their statement of expenditures. Supporting expenditure documentation would be available
in the elegible school for the duration of the PDE. It is expected that through dissemination of
good subprojects, monitoring, and evaluation, generalized principles kindled by the PDEs can
become policy as the system assimilates what works.
3.22 Schools interested in establishing links with, inter-alia, private sector firms or academic
institutions, could include these objectives in their PDEs. Additionally, interested schools could
compete for technical and financial assistance to be provided by financial development agencies
interested in assisting them, such as GTZ, ORT, USAID, or any other donor agency operating
in Chile. The possible assistance to be provided by any of the above-mentioned development
agencies would be implemented outside the Bank Loan.
3.23  Provision of Educational Resources (US$ 116 million; 67.3 percent of total baseline
cost). The project would finance the provision of the following resources, which have proven
effective in raising the quality of secondary schools1-': (a) textbooks (US$20.4 million; 11.6
percent of total baseline cost); (b) school libraries (US$22.7 million; 13.2 percent of total
baseline cost); (c) teaching materials (US$7.7 million; 4.4 percent of total baseline cost);
(d) computers (US$26.2 million; 15.2 percent of total baseline cost); and (e) infrastructure
(US$39.3 million; 22.8 percent of total baseline cost). This component would aim to:
(a) improve student access to these resources in the context of new curricular and teaching
orientations; (b) guide and stimulate the national and international markets for secondary school
educational resources by sending appropriate signals about their demand and content; and
(c) establish a long-term system of acquisition, distribution, storage, effective use, and evaluation
of these resources by closely coordinating it with the curricular, teaching process, and evaluation
components of this project.
3.24 Textbooks. The project would supply textbooks to all publicly subsidized secondary
school students (nearly 590,000) in grades 9 through 12, in language, mathematics, social and
natural sciences, and technology. Textbooks would be designed to cover the material of two
consecutive grades -9th and 10th, and 11th and 12th- and to have a lifetime of two years. Each
student would receive a set comprising between three to five books, encompassing, inter-alia, the
subject matters mentioned-above. At least, one book would be allocated through the school
library at a ratio of one book per three students.
16/   Fuller, B., and Clarke, P., 'Raising School Effects While Ignoring Culture? Local
Conditions and the Influence of Classroom Tools, Rules, and Pedagogy'. Review of
Educational Research, Vol 64, No. 1 pp 119-157, Spring 1994.



- 28 -
3.25 The project would finance the purchase of about 1.5 million sets of textbooks to be
delivered directly to students, and approximately 300,000 textbooks to be allocated through
school libraries during the project's implementation. The project would acquire about 1,200,000
textbooks per year during project execution, starting in 1996. Textbook selection and
procurement would be done through a two-step process, in line with Government's procedures
(100 percent of this subcomponent is being financed with counterpart funding). The CPEU, in
conjunction with MINEDUC's existing textbook unit, would establish the specifications for the
textbooks. Textbooks and manuscripts would then be selected on the basis of quality standards,
from samples made available from national and international publishers. Second, approved texts
and manuscripts would be invited for bid, at prices based on a curve of estimated sales. A short
list (of four titles maximum) would then be approved for each subject and grade in line with the
new curricular orientation. The titles of the selected books, together with a technical
description, would be sent to the secondary schools so that teachers can choose those which best
correspond to their needs as determined by the SPGs. After the results of this consultation are
compiled, orders would be placed if a minimum of about 7,500 copies of a title have been
requested by the teachers. At the end of each school year, MINEDUC, through the SPGs,
would survey teachers' opinions on the textbooks in order to upgrade the terms of reference of
future procurement bidding documents. Teachers would be trained on textbook selection criteria
and their appropriate and creative use.
3.26 School Libraries. The project would promote the use of printed, audiovisual and
multimedia materials through the development of school libraries in all publicly funded schools.
Three different types of libraries would be established by the project: local libraries, collective
libraries and system libraries. Local libraries would serve individual schools and would consist
of either 1,200, 1,700 or 2,100 books depending on the number of students in the school and its
availability of books. Collective libraries, holding a collection of an additional 2,500 books,
would be established in 200 local libraries selected according to the following criteria:
(i) expressed desire to house the library; (ii) capacity to do so; (iii) availability of personnel to
administer the library; and (iv) location relative to other schools that would use the library.
System libraries would connect approximately 3 collective libraries with their respective local
libraries through an automated networking system that would ensure the instant availability of
information. The libraries would consists of reference materials, youth and adult collections,
contemporary literature, recreational materials, and specialized educational and curricular
materials. The implementation of this subcomponent was initiated in 1994 under the Pilot
Program in 124 secondary schools.
3.27 The project would finance: (i) 2.8 million books; (ii) cataloguing and processing
materials; (iii) technical assistance; (iv) production of printed and audiovisual training materials;
(v) training; and (vi) dissemination materials. About 30 percent of the stock for the local
libraries would be delivered during 1995 and 1996; 35 percent would be acquired in 1997 and
1998; and the remaining 35 percent would be purchased in 1999 and 2000. The collective and
system libraries would be established during the fourth year and fifth years of the project,
respectively. The first purchase of library materials would include basic titles selected by
MINEDUC with the assistance of specialists. This initial collection would be selected and



- 29 -
procured in a two-step procedure (para. 3.25) in line with the Government's procedures (100
percent of this subcomponent is being financed with counterpart funding). The second and third
purchases would be selected by teachers from a pre-approved list compiled by MINEDUC.
After the results of this consultation are compiled in the PCU, orders would be placed by
MINEDUC. To replenish the libraries and ensure their sustainability, the project would inform
schools of various existing agencies and Laws (setting the fiscal basis for private contribution to
education) which could provide schools with books.
3.28 Teachers would be trained in evaluation and selection criteria for the libraries' contents,
and in the development of reading and general language skills by students through activities
which may include research and homework assignments requiring consultation or reference
library materials. The management and organization of the library would be key in ensuring the
fluid and efficient use of resources and time available to teachers. Libraries would be staffed by
current school personnel (librarians, teachers, and support staff) and parents who would receive
special training. All libraries would receive manuals (with instructions on services offered by
the library, its organization, processing of bibliographical material, lists of available library
materials, staffing requirements, and user education) and a Directory of the library network. In
cases in which school's installed infrastructure is not deemed adequate to house the library's
contents, the project's infrastructure component would provide schools with essential
infrastructure needed to house the libraries and computer multi-use rooms.
3.29 Teaching Materials. This subcomponent would: (i) increase the supply of both non-
curricular and curricular teaching materialsO' through demand and non-demand mechanisms;
(ii) establish and update, with the input of teachers and students, a Secondary Education
Teaching Materials Catalogue (SETMC) which would assist them in selecting, applying and
evaluating such materials; and (iii) orient and stimulate the national and international markets for
secondary education teaching materials by sending signals about demand through orchestrated
seminars and procurement processes. The implementation of this subcomponent was initiated in
1994 under the Pilot Program in 124 secondary schools.
3.30 The project would finance: (i) approximately 930 packages of non-curricular materials
consisting of a television, two video recorders, one slide projector, a slide projector, a stock of
video and audio cassettes, and a cassette player targeted to the neediest schools; (ii) curricular
materials such as educational software, natural science kits, and chemistry sets; (iii) manuals for
the instructional use of these materials; (iv) technical assistance to establish the specifications of
the materials to be included in the SETMC; (v) training; (vi) publications, dissemination
activities, and information workshops with suppliers of these teaching materials; and (vii) study
tours abroad to analyze the market of teaching materials of other countries.
17/   Non-curricular materials provide support for teaching and learning which offer
neither a specific pedagogical nor a methodological application. Curricular materials
seek to develop specific themes, concepts or skills in a specific context.



- 30 -
3.31 During the project's first year, the CPEU would hire five specialists in language,
mathematics, natural and social sciences, and technology to provide the specifications of the
curricular materials. Selection and procurement of non-curricular materials would be done
through price bids (para. 3.25) in line with Government's procedures (100 percent of this
subcomponent is being financed with counterpart funding). Curricular materials would be
selected on the basis of their quality and conformity with the new curricular orientation, from
samples made available from local and international manufacturers. Selected teaching materials
would be included in the SETMC. The SETMC would include, besides the pre-approved
materials, an explanation of concepts and skills developed by each material; guidelines for
selection; a methodological guide for classroom application; a description of additional
equipment required; and an evaluation survey to later determine the effectiveness of the
materials. The SETMC would be sent to schools from which teachers and students would
choose materials with a pre-specified budget. After the results of this consultation are compiled
in the CPEU, orders would be placed by MINEDUC for the curriculum materials requested by
the schools. The SETMC would be updated three times during project execution.
3.32 Schools would acquire the selected material from the SETMC through a non-monetary
voucher (NMV) of US$1,500, US$1,800 or US$2,200, depending on the size of the school
(below 300 students, the school would receive NMVs of US$1,500; between 301 and 900
students, the school would receive NMVs of US$1,800; and above 901 students, the school
would receive an NMV of US$2,200). Some schools would be entitled to the basic package of
non-curricular materials during the first year of project execution. During the second and fourth
years of the project, additional materials would be allocated through the voucher system based
on the school's teaching needs. Teachers would be trained (para. 3.17) to: (i) identify
pedagogical priorities requiring teaching materials; (ii) evaluate and select curricular materials
according to their proposed cost, content, and methodology; (iii) effectively apply the materials
in the classroom; and (iv) effectively incorporate them into the up-dated curricular study plans.
3.33 Computer Network. This subcomponent will provide multimedia and information
technology and equipment to secondary schools to foster student acquisition of higher-order
thinldng and problem-solving skills. There is emerging evidence that computer software, in
conjunction with the use of simple everyday equipment and materials and teaching methods, is a
cost-effective alternative to laboratories in the teaching of scienceW8t. This subcomponent has
been designed on the basis of experience gained from the computer network established under
the MECE project in 150 rural and urban primary schools. The computer network
implementation in secondary education was initiated under the Pilot Project covering 62 schools
across the country.
3.34 The project would finance the equipment of a multimedia room in each participating
secondary school. Each multimedia room would provide computing services for classes of up to
20 students. The equipment in each room would include about 11 computers, three printers,
18/   Walberg, H.J., 'Improving School Science in Advanced and Developing Countries',
Review of Educational Research, Vol 61, No. 1, (Spring 1991), pp. 25-69.



- 31 -
multimedia accessories, and general software (word processing, data base, spreadsheets, desk-top
publishing, drawing) and more pedagogical software for students and teachers. The project
would incorporate into the network existing computers currently available in some secondary
schools. The project would finance technical assistance and training provided by higher
education institutions in the country. The project would also finance the interconnection with
other national and international communication networks. Computers would be interconnected
by telephone, occupying phone lines mostly at night when telephone rates are lower. Finally,
the project would finance the establishment of a monitoring and impact evaluation system to
measure creativity and innovation displayed by students, evolution of student's cognitive skills,
and interpersonal relations induced through the network.
3.35 All publicly financed secondary schools would be brought into the network following a
demand-driven approach based on the school's capacity to integrate its activities with other
elements of MECE-EM through the SPGs. MECE has shown that participating schools would
probably undergo a process of gradual technological assimilation, beginning with an initial
acceptance of the technology, followed by an adaptation phase and finally, the emergence of
locally designed innovations. Because this process is slow, implementation would proceed
gradually. The training to be provided, replicated from MECE, would consist of workshops to
familiarize teachers and students with the multimedia equipment, technology, and software, and
to disseminate the uses of the network in other schools.
3.36 School Infrastructure. This subcomponent aims to: (i) provide the essential infrastructure
and furniture needed to successfully implement the school libraries, the computer network
technological rooms, and the teaching methods transformation components; and (ii) improve the
image and identity of the secondary schools. Regarding essential infrastructure, the project
would finance approximately 890 infrastructure projects to: remodel libraries, computer
facilities, and teacher meeting facilities; construct new libraries and computer facilities; and
improve bathrooms, electrical installations, and roofs. The project would also finance furniture
for about 1,500 libraries, computer facilities, and teacher meeting rooms. The implementation
of this subcomponent was initiated in 1994 under the Pilot Program in 124 secondary schools.
3.37 Regarding improvement of the image and identity of secondary schools, the project would
finance the acquisition and distribution of about 1,500 flags, emblems, and signs, and school-
based refurbishing initiatives. Additionally, the project would finance technical assistance,
transportation and subsistence to supervise the implementation of this component at the national
level. The experience gained from the infrastructure remodelling, maintenance, and construction
of primary schools under MECE and the Pilot Program would be applied in this project.
3.38 Enhancing Sectoral Managerial Capacity (US$ 7.6 million; 4.4 percent of total
baseline cost). In order to address the sectoral management issues at all levels of decision
making, the project would finance the implementation of leadership and management training
programs for school principals and heads of disciplinary areas, and the establishment, updating,
and maintenance of a Technical Support Network (TSN). Additionally, the project would build



- 32 -
upon MECE's institutional strengthening activities in execution since 1992, which include the
enhancement of sectoral planning, monitoring and management capacities.
3.39 The leadership and management training programs for school principals and heads of
disciplinary areas aims to: (a) improve their capacity to manage secondary schools in a
decentralized framework; and (b) provide the necessary leadership to promote the improvement
of curricular, pedagogical, and evaluation practices in their schools. The project would finance
the provision of local and international technical assistance to develop the training workshops
and materials, and also to train approximately 1,600 school principals and 1,600 heads of
disciplinary areas in communication, leadership, strategic planning, problem solving, and
appropriate use of educational resources.
3.40 To assist interested schools with the implementation of different project components, as
well as municipalities with enhancement of management capacity, the project would finance: (i)
the creation, maintenance, and dissemination of a TSN Directory, which would be made
available to all 1,600 publicly subsidized secondary schools, as well as to the 334 municipalities;
and (ii) the design and implementation of administrative and financial mechanisms to enable
interested secondary schools use the services provided by the TSN. The TSN Directory would
be updated annually by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Technical assistance provided by
the network members (para. 3.2 (j)) would be evaluated by the PCU based on stringent quality
control criteria. Network members which do not satisfy this criteria would be removed from the
roster. The project would finance the printing and distribution of 8,500 Directories.
3.41 MECE has allocated about US$16.4 million to: (a) acquire computers and peripheral
equipment, vehicles, office fumiture, communication and reproduction equipment tailored to the
specific needs of the central, regional, and provincial offices of MINEDUC; (b) develop training
materials and manuals needed to carry out training programs for the SEREMIS, DEPROV,
municipalities, and participating schools which aim to strengthen the skills of managers;
(c) strengthen MlNEDUC's management information system to provide timely and reliable data
for program formulation, implementation, and evaluation; and (d) support the implementation of
educational programs at all levels of decision making. MECE-EM would provide additional
resources to continue institutional strengthening activities up to the year 2000. Specifically, the
project would finance technical assistance, equipment, and studies to: (i) reinforce MINEDUC's
analytical capacity in the areas of analysis of benefits and costs of altemative policies, including
those related to tertiary education; (ii) implement strategic planning; (iii) complement the
SEREMIS, DEPROV, and the municipalities with information and communication equipment to
improve their efficiency in dealing with secondary education; (iv) enhance the Secondary
Education Academic Achievement Assessment (SIMCE-Media); and (v) improve management
capacity at all levels of decision-making.



- 33 -
4. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost of the Project
4.1   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$207 million based on estimated prices as
of September 1994. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$37.5 million, or 18 percent
of the total cost. Costs of each component, subcomponent, and expenditure category, were
derived from detailed surveys, using schools, students, and teachers as the units of analysis.
Table 4.1 summarizes the estimated project costs by component and main intervention
categories. Detailed project costs are shown in Annex E.
4.2   Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies amount to 15 percent of base costs for
civil works, 10 percent for textbooks and libraries, 5 percent for other educational resources and
operating costs, and 3 percent of base costs for goods and equipment for all components. No
physical contingencies were applied to consultant services. Price contingencies for foreign costs
are based on a projected international inflation rate of 2.2 percent per year for the 1995-2000
period.
4.3   Duties and Taxes. Locally procured goods are subject to a value added tax (VAT) of 18
percent. Imported goods are subject to a customs tax (11 percent) and the 18 percent VAT.
The estimated base cost of the project includes these local taxes, which amount to approximately
US$30.2 million. Local tax expenditures would be totally financed with counterpart funds.
B. Fmancing Plan
4.4   The project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$35 million, or 16.9 percent of total
project cost net of duties and taxes. It would cover 45 percent of foreign exchange expenditures
and 13 percent of the estimated local costs. The government of Chile would finance the
remaining US$172 million, including duties and taxes. Table 4.2 shows the project financing
plan, with a breakdown by project categories, while Annex E, Table E-5 shows the project
yearly financing by source and category of expenditure.
C. Education Sector Budget for FY95
4.5   The Chilean government will have the capability to sustain the project financially, given
the increases in public financing of the education sector expected to result from the high priority
assigned to the sector by the current administration. One illustration of the sector's importance
is the FY95 Budget Law submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the Congress, which provides



- 34 -
Table 4:1 Summary Cost Table
(US$'OOO)
Local      Foreign     Total     Percent of   Percent of
Bae          Foreign
Reorm. of Cunicum & Develop. of Eval. Capaty
Cunriulum & Evaluation Unit                                   717           0         717             0.4           0
Curriculr Products                                           2,469          0        2,469            1.4           0
Evaluation & Certification                                   1,581          0        1,581            0.9           0
Diermination                                                   180          0          180            0.1           0
Technical Assisance                                            103        158         261             0.2          61
Equipment                                                       4           14         18             0.0          76
SUB-TOTAL                                                     5,054         172       5,226            3.0            3
Alternajive Cunicular Activ. for At-Risk Sec. Studentb
Training                                                     1,705          0        1,705            1.0            0
Workshop Materials                                           4,581          10       4,591            2.7           0
Personnel                                                    6,213          0        6,213            3.6           0
Monitoing                                                     556           0         556             0.3           0
SUB-TOTAL                                                    13,056          10      13,065            7.6            0
Liua  with She Pivate Protlc0ve Sector
In-Serice Teacher Training                                    645           0         645             0.4           0
Certification                                                   7           0           7             0.0           0
Disemination                                                   40           0          40             0.0           0
SUB-TOTAL                                                       693          0          693            0.4            0
i-Seikce Techer Trausisa
Technical Aine                                                950           0         950             0.6           0
Training Mater;Ias                                           1,036          0        1,036            0.6           0
Training Events                                               450           0         450             0.3           0
Monitoring                                                    791           0         791             0.5           0
SUB-TOTAL                                                     3,227          0        3,227            1.9            0
PDEa
Trining                                                       267           0         267             0.2           0
Training Materiea                                              86           0          86             0.0           0
Grant Fund                                                  20,054          0       20,054           11.6           0
Dissenation                                                    28           0          28             0.0           0
Monitoring                                                     23           0          23             0.0           0
SUB-TOTAL                                                    20,457          0       20,457           11.9            0



- 35 -
Local      Foreign     Total      Percent of   Percent of
Bae          Foreign
Educationa Reom
Technical Assinc                                                 58            0          58             0.0            0
Textbooks                                                     12,390       7,650      20,040            11.6           38
School Libraries                                              15,404       7,342      22,748            13.2           32
Teaching Materials                                             4,336       2,S18       7,653             4.4           37
School Computer Network                                       10,713      15,537      26,250            15.2           59
SUB-TOTAL                                                      43,401      33,347       76,748           44.5           43
Infrastructure
Construction & Refurbishing                                   20,916           0      20,916            12.1            0
Equipmrent & Matrals                                          18,412           0      18,412            10.7            0
SUB-TOTAL                                                     39,328           0      39,328            22.8            0
Institutiona strengthning
Studies                                                         300            0         300             0.2            0
Training                                                       4,843           0       4,843             2.3            0
Technical Support Network                                      2,479           0       2,479             1.4            0
SUB-TOTAL                                                       7,622           0        7,622            4.4            0
Project Coordination Uit
Personnel                                                      2,121           0       2,121             1.2            0
Monitoring                                                       55            0          55             0.0            0
Project Disuemination                                          2,932          16       2,948             1.7            1
Evaluation Studies                                             1,100           0       1,100             0.6            0
SUB-TOTAL                                                       6,209          16       6,225             3.6            0
TOTAL BASE COST                                               139,046      33,545      172,590          100.0           19
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                          7,763       1,879        9,642            5.6
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                            22,668       2,099       24,767           14.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                            169,477      37,523     207,000
US$1.41 billion for the Ministry of Education (Annex F, Table F-1). This budget reflects a 5.8
percent real increase in education spending compared with the FY94 budget. The government
recognizes that sector recurrent spending cannot grow more than proportionately to the overall growth
of public revenues and spending. Furthermore, under a framework of budgetary constraints,
spending within the sector has to be carefully targeted to accomplish its quality and equity objectives.
The project, with its emphasis on improving quality, external and internal efficiency, and equity
through targeting of schools in low-income communities, is fully consistent with sectoral



- 36 -
Table 4:2 Flnancing Plan by Expenditure Category
(US$'000)
CATEGORY                   TOTAL    BANK   GOVERNMENT
Civil Works                        25,974        0            25,974
Computing Equipment                17,057    16,852             205
Textbooks and Manuals              23,119        0            23,119
Libraries and Teaching Aids        31,980        0            31,980
PDEs                               24,093    15,835            8,258
Consultant Services                24,084        0            24,084
Salaries                              753        0              753
Furniture and Equipment            15,058        0            15,058
Transportation and Per-Diem         5,424        0             5,424
Operating Costs                     6,672        0             6,672
PCU                                 2,604    2,313              291
Subtotal"                          176,818   35,000          141,818
Taxes                              30,182        0            30,182
Total Project Cost                207,000   35,000           172,000
1/ Net of Taxes
spending targets. Moreover, the project would take place within a context of fiscal surpluses which is
favorable to spending in the social sector, especially in education.
D. Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project
4.6    The project has a high content of expenditures on educational resources (textbooks, school
libraries, teaching materials, and computers) which represent 44.5 percent of total baseline cost, and
on infrastructure, representing another 22.8 percent of total baseline cost. The only incremental
recurrent cost introduced by the project is salariesl2', which represent less than 0.4 percent of total
project cost. These salaries (excluding those for the PCU personnel) would be 100 percent financed
with counterpart funding throughout the execution of the project.
4.7    The Bank loan would finance (Table 4.2): (a) 99 percent of computer equipment expenditures;
(b) 89 percent of the PCU expenditures; and (c) 66 percent of the school-based quality development
subprojects (PDEs) expenditures. The Borrower would finance (Table 4.2): (a) 100 percent of taxes,
civil works, textbooks and manuals, libraries and teaching aids, consultant services, salaries, furniture
12/ Salaries for PCU personnel is not a recurrent cost as the PCU is dissolved at project
completion.



- 37 -
and equipment, transportation and per diem, and operating costs; (b) 34 percent of the PDEs
expenditures; (c) 12 percent of the PCU expenditures; and (d) one percent of computer equipment
expenditures. The bulk of the project costs financed by the Govemment would occur during the
1996-1998 period, representing an average of US$43 million per year (Annex E, Table E-5), or about
2.7 percent of the expected sector budget for 1997 (Annex F, Table F-1).
E. Project Sustainability
4.8   The effect of the project on total sector costs and the ability of the government to sustain the
expenditures that will result from project implementation are important questions. Annex F, Table F-
1, derived from a recent study commissioned by the Bank (Riveros, 1994, reference C. 16), shows
actual and projected recurrent spending for education that would result from the project for the period
2001 through 2010, estimated at US$9.4 million per year, under an education sector budget growth
assumption of 5.8 percent per annum. From the point of view of sustainability, these data show that
additional recurrent expenditures would represent on the average 0.5 percent of the estimated sector
budget projected for the year, equivalent to 3.0 percent of MINEDUC's forecast secondary education
budget. This increase is affordable by the Borrower, especially considering that the Government has
assigned the highest priority to this sector.
S. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Preparation
5.1   Project preparation was financed by the Government with resources from MECE's secondary
assessment component. Each project component and subcomponent presented to the Bank is
consistent with the Government's sector policies, objectives, and strategies. Moreover, since the
project preparation coordinator reports directly, and on an ongoing basis, to the Minister and
Undersecretary of Education, the project enjoys substantial support. The counterpart funds required
by MECE-EM for 1995, amounting to US$13.4 million, have been approved by the Congress in the
FY95 Budget Law.
B. Inplementation Schedule
5.2   The project is expected to be implemented over a six-year period, from January 1995 to
December 2000. The completion date would be December 31, 2000 and the closing date would be
June 30, 2001. Project activities started after appraisal (January 10, 1995), would be recognized by
the Bank as part of the Government's counterpart funding. The yearly physical targets and
implementation schedule are shown in Annex G, Tables G-1 and G-2.



- 38 -
C. Project Management
5.3   Project execution would be coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), herein referred
to as MECE-EM PCU. A National Coordinator would be in charge of the PCU, and assited by a
Secondary Education Project Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator. The MECE-EM PCU reports to
the Minister and Undersecretary of Education through the National Coordinator, which also is in
charge of managing the Bank-financed Primary Education (MECE) Project. The MECE-EM PCU
would assist MINEDUC in overseeing the project's implementation and general coordination, and
ensuring that the project's execution is carried out according to established guidelines, procedures,
and agreed targets. The MECE-EM PCU consists of a small matrix-type managerial organization
with six program units (reformulation of curriculum and development of evaluation capacity;
alternative curricular activities for socially and educationally at-risk students; in-service teacher
training; school-based quality development projects; educational resources; and infrastructure) and
four support units (project planning, programming and monitoring; procurement, technical assistance,
and personnel; budgeting, financing, disbursement, accounting, and auditing; and legal affairs) as
shown in Annex H. No new support units would be established for this project. Instead, the project
would utilize MECE's four existing support units. The program units would coordinate and monitor
the implementation of their respective project components through MINEDUC's central, regional, and
provincial structures.
5.4   The PCU National Coordinator would be assisted by an Ad-Hoc Overseeing Committee
presided by the Minister of Education and comprised by the Undersecretary of Education, the
Director General of MINEDUC's Education Division, the Director of MINEDUC's Planning and
Programming Division, and the Director of the Teacher Training and Educational Research Center
(CPEIP). The Ad-Hoc Oversight Committee would meet about every three months to review project
implementation, address policy, strategy, and organizational problems that could affect project
execution, and review project monitoring indicators.
5.5   During project implementation, the PCU would employ 12 senior level professional
consultants, eight technical staff, and up to eight support staff. During negotiations, the Bank
obtained the Borrower's agreement that a PCU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, would be established and staffed as a condition of Loan effectiveness, and that prior
review by the Bank would be required for the appointments of the PCU's National Coordinator,
and the MECE-EM PCU's Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator. Annex H describes in more
detail the functions and responsibilities of each MECE-EM PCU unit. During negotiations, the
Bank obtained the Borrower's agreement that the adoption of MECE-EM's Operational Manual
by MNEEDUC, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
5.6   As a condition for disbursement of PDE's subprojects, selected schools would enter into an
agreement (already agreed with the Bank) with MINEDUC through the SEREMIs. Such an
agreement would be a prerequisite to Bank financing of any such subproject.



- 39 -
D. Procurement
5.7   The categories of expenditures subject to Bank financing, under the project, are: (a) computer
equipment; (b) school-based quality development subprojects (PDEs); and (c) PCU personnel. All
other expenditure categories would be financed entirely with counterpart funding throughout the
project implementation period.
5.8   Procurement methods would require documents and procedures as follows:
(a)   International competitive bidding (ICB) would be carried following Bank procurement
guidelines, and would require the use of Bank issued standard bidding documents,
which are mandatory. Under ICB, domestic preference may be applied, in accordance
with Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods. During negotiations, the
Borrower agreed that standard ICB bidding documents for the acquisition of
computer equipment, acceptable to the Bank, adopted by MINEDUC be made a
condition for Loan effectiveness;
(b)   Local competitive bidding (LCB) would be carried out under procedures to be agreed
with the Bank using approved standard bidding documents. During negotiations, the
Borrower agreed that standard LCB bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank,
adopted by M DUC would be a condition for Loan effectiveness;
(c)   Local and international shopping would be carried out according to procedures
acceptable to the Bank which will require a minimum of three price quotations obtained
from eligible suppliers; and
(d)   Selection and appointment of consultants for the PCU would be done in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
5.9   Table 5.1 summarizes procurement under the Bank loan. In addition to the requirements
described in para. 5.8, procurement of categories subject to Bank financing would comply with the
following procedures:
a)    Computer equipment (computers, peripheral equipment, and computer software)
would be procured on the basis of: (i) ICB procedures for packages of US$350,000
equivalent, or more; (ii) LCB procedures for packages valued above US$100,000 and
below US$350,000 equivalent; and (iii) local or international shopping for packages
valued at US$100,000 equivalent or less. Aggregate totals to be procured under these
methods are: US$20.2 million, US$1.8 million, and US$0.8 million, respectively;
b)    PDE funds to be allocated to eligible schools would range from a minimum of
US$2,500 to a maximum of US$15,000 per school per PDE. Procurement may
include goods (paper, utensils, and materials), technical assistance, and services



- 40 -
Table 5:1 Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ Million)
CATEGORIES                              ICB       LCB         OTHER    N.B.F. fV   TOTAL
Civil Woris                                                                30.65      30.65
(0.00)     (0.00)
Computing Equipnnt                       20.25     1.83         0.78b/                22.86
(14.93)   (1.35)      (0.57)                 (16.85)
Textbooks and Manuals d/                                                   28.73      28.73
(0.00)     (0-00)
Libraries and Teaching Aids d/                                             39.47      39.47
(0.00)     (0-00)
PDEs                                                           24.09c/                24.09
(15.83)                (15.83)
Consultant Services                                                       25.95       25.95
(0.00)     (0.00)
Salaries                                                                   0.75        0.75
(0.00)     (0.00)
Fumniture and Equipment                                                    17.77      17.77
(0.00)     (0.00)
Transponation and Per-Diem                                                 6.25        6.25
(0.00)     (0.00)
Opeating Costs                                                             7.87        7.87
(0.00)     (0.00)
PCUT Personnel                                                 2.60                    2.60
(2.31)                 (2.31)
Totd e/                                  20.25     1.83        27.47      157.45      207.00
(14.93)   (1.35)     (18.72)      (0.00)     (35.00)
a/     Toals include t&xes and contingencica. Amounts in parentheses show allocations from Loan proceeds.
b/     Local/international shopping.
c/     Local shopping, or by direct contracing where price quotations cannot be obtained.
d/     Although Bank financing would not apply, procurement under these categories would follow local procurement procedures
described in pas. 3.25, 3.27, and 3.31.
e/     Total may not add due to rounding.
fW     N.B.F. - Not Bank financed.
(transportation, rental of conference rooms, meetings, etc.). Given the nature of the
PDEs, procurement of goods, with an aggregate total of about US$24.1 million, would
be done preferably through local shopping. Direct contracting may apply when price
quotations cannot be obtained up to an overall aggregate amount of US$8.0 million



- 41 -
equivalent. Grant requests and procurement procedures to be agreed upon would be
reviewed by the DEPROVs;
c)    PCU Personnel (consulting services) would be appointed through procedures stated in
para. 5.8(d); and
d)    Civil works; textbooks and manuals; libraries and teaching materials; consultant
services (other than PCU personnel); salaries; furniture and equipment;
transportation and per-diems; operating costs; and taxes would be financed entirely
from counterpart funds.
5.10 Prior Review. Prior review by the Bank would be required for all documentation concerning
the: (i) ICB procurement of computer equipment; (ii) procurement of computer equipment for the first
LCB contract awarded each year of project implementation; and (iii) terms of reference of all the
higher-level positions in the PCU (Annex H) and the qualifications and employment conditions for the
PCU National Coordinator, and the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator. All other
documentation for contracts related to categories subject to Bank financing would be reviewed by
sampling on an ex-post basis during Bank supervision missions. If it were determined that
procurement was not made in accordance with agreed procedures, then no expenditures for such items
would be financed with proceeds from the Loan and the Special Account would have to be reimbursed
accordingly by the Borrower. The proposed review procedures would cover about 46 percent of the
total value of Bank financed contracts and expenditures under the project. This percentage may
appear to be low, but the Bank is financing only 17 percent of total project cost, and as explained in
para. 5.9(b), procurement related to the PDEs totalling US$24.1 million would not be subject to prior
review procedures. However, ex-post review of the PDE grant-fund award process would be
conducted during project supervision, on a sample basis, covering not less than five percent of the
PDEs implemented. MECE's three years of experience in carrying out procurement procedures
under Bank guidelines, and the fact that MECE-EM's procurement will be carried out by the same
MECE team, would facilitate effective procurement operations.
E. Disbursement and Accounts
5.11  The proceeds of the Loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the schedule shown
in Annex I, Table I-1 over a period of six years, which is about the average country profile for Chile
(5.5 years), but shorter than the profile for the LAC region (7 years). The disbursement period was
determined after taking into account the advanced status of project design, MINEDUC's execution
capacity, and the yearly budget amounts approved by the Ministry of Finance. The allocation and
disbursement of the Bank loan are summarized in Table 5.2.0
20/ This loan disbursement arrangement, tailored to the expected pace of project
execution, conforms to the recently amended Operational Directive (OD) 12.00,
Disbursements, pam. 26.



- 42 -
Table 5:2 Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
CATEGORIES          AMOUNT OF THE          PERCENT OF
LOAN ALLOCATED (US  EXPENDiTURES
DOLLAR                TO BE FINANCED
EQUIVALENT)           BYIBRD
Computing Equipment   15,000,000           100 a/
PDEs                14,000,000             100 b/
PCU Personnel        2,000,000             90
Unallocated          4,000,000             NA
Total               35,000,000             NA
a/ 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 80 percent of all other goods procured locally.
b/ See para. 3.20(a).
NA = Not applicable.
5.12 Disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for:
(a) computer equipment contracts below US$350,000 except for the first LCB computer equipment
contract each year; (b) each PDE subproject, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower; and (c) higher-level personnel in the PCU (Annex H) estimated to
cost US$50,000 equivalent or less, except the PCU manager, the MECE-EM's coordinator and
deputy coordinator. Disbursements for contracts requiring prior review would be fully documented.
Relevant documentation in support of SOEs and of consultant contracts not subject to prior review
would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the PCU and made available to the
Bank during supervision missions.
5.13 Special Account. The Borrower would establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of
Chile, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account would be
denominated in US dollars and would be established with an authorized allocation of US$2.2 million
(the estimated four-month disbursement requirement for the expenditure categories) after loan
effectiveness. The initial deposit of up to US$1.5 million will be made, and the full amount of the
authorized allocation will be released when disbursements reach a level of US$6 million equivalent.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be made by MINEDUC as needed and the Account
would be replenished by the Bank periodically at the request of MINEDUC on the basis of standard
disbursement procedures. Project expenditures would be monitored by the PCU on behalf of
MINEDUC. Records of the Special Account deposits would be available for review by Bank
supervision missions, and would be audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 43 -
F. Audits
5.14 The Bank would require that an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank: (a) audit all
accounts, SOEs, and Special Accounts; (b) apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and conforming to generally accepted auditing practices; (c) carry out its auditing work in a
timely manner so that an annual report would be presented no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year; and (d) render an audit opinion or the reasons why such an opinion cannot be
rendered. Given the expected geographical dispersion of PDEs under execution, the Bank would
require that basic elements of conventional financial management, accounting and auditing be included
specifically for the PDE project component in the auditing procedures of the project, and that the
procurement process of between 5 to 10 percent of the PDEs in execution be audited on annual basis.
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
5.15 Key efficiency, quality, and equity indicators (Annex J, Table J-1) would be monitored to
track improvements in the overall effectiveness of secondary education. To support spot-checking of
any of the project's subcomponents, a target matrix has been prepared ( Annex G, Table G-1).
During negotiations, the Borrower agreed that a rmal version of monitoring indicators
concerning equity improvements between socially and educationally high, medium, and low risk
secondary education students, satisfactory to the Bank, would be included in the Operational
Manual (paras 5.5 and 7.2(b)).
5.16 Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the responsibility of the PCU.
Specific tasks include: (a) preparing annual progress reports on project implementation, which would
be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each year starting in 1996; (b) measuring quantitative and
qualitative objectives achieved against the monitoring indicators shown in the implementation matrix;
(c) annually updating project implementation schedules and action plans; (d) selecting consultants to
carry out the impact evaluation studies included in the components of MECE-EM; and (e) preparing a
Project Completion Report that would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
closing date of the Loan (on or about December 31, 2001). Annex J, Table J-2 delineates the Bank's
supervision plan, including: (i) frequency of missions; (ii) skill mix needed in each supervision
mission; (iii) project launch seminar; (iv) mid-term review; (v) regular Bank and specific supervision
schedules; and (vi) local and international consultants. Supervision arrangements are expected to
require a total of about 53 staffweeks during project execution. Given the good experience under the
previous Bank-financed project (MECE), this project would require less supervision resources from
the Bank and, instead, rely more on the Govemment's close supervision in the field.
5.17 Mid-Term Review. A project Mid-Term Review would be held in the thirtieth month after
the date of project effectiveness. The Mid-Term Review would focus on project implementation,



- 44 -
management, and impact on the project's objectives concerning the enhancement of secondary
education: (a) external and internal efficiency; (b) quality; (c) equity; (d) strengthening of institutional
management; and (e) institutionalization of MECE-EM within the MINEDUC existing structure. The
Mid-Term Review would also include the lessons learned during project implementation to be
incorporated into a Government's action plan for structural reform (para. 2.49). During
negotiations, the Borrower: (i) confirmed the date, scope and content of the Mid-Term Review
agreed with the Bank during appraisal; and (ii) agreed that the Mid-Term Review performance
and impact indicators would be included in the Operational Manual (see paras. 5.5, 7.1(b),
7.2(b), and Annex J, Table J-3).
6. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
6.1   The project would lead to cost savings and efficiency gains as a result of reducing the number
of secondary education students repeating grades and/or dropping out of school. Similarly, the
project would generate economic benefits accruing to students who do not repeat or become dropouts
as a result of the project, and whose labor market performance would improve. Other benefits
include: (a) increased productivity stemming from a more educated and trainable labor force with
higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills; (b) increased social mobility, especialy for low-
income secondary education students; and (c) reduced social inequality stemming from targeted
project interventions. Finally, the project would further strengthen managerial capacity in the
MINEDUC, municipalities, and secondary schools.
B. Expected Risks
6.2   The major risks associated with project implementation are: (a) possible distortions in targeting
project interventions; (b) possible difficulties by some secondary schools, especiaUy those serving
socially and educationally at-risk students, in integrating the different lines of action of the project;
and (c) possible development of non-practical learning materials prototypes (with new curricular
content) by the project that would not easily be used by the teachers. These risks would be
minimized by: (a) defining precise targeting criteria to benefit schools located in poor urban and rural
areas; (b) the gradual implementation of project components through a school demand-driven
approach, and by scheduling time for learning by doing; and (c) soliciting from the TSN learning
material prototypes (with new curricular content), including concrete and simple teaching examples
which highlight the competencies they intend to promote.



- 45 -
7. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.1   During negotiations, the Borrower confirmed:
(a)   the date, scope and content of the Mid-Term Review agreed during the appraisal
mission (para. 5.17);
(b)   that the project's performance and impact indicators would be included in the
Operational Manual (paras. 5.5 and 5.17); and
(c)   that an annual progress report on project implementation would be submitted to the
Bank for its review not later than June 30 of each year, starting in 1996.
7.2   For Loan effectiveness, the Bank would require that:
(a)   a PCU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, be established and staffed by
MINEDUC under qualifications agreed with the Bank (paras. 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and 5.10);
(b)   an Operational Manual of MECE-EM, satisfactory to the Bank, be adopted by
MINEDUC (para. 5.5);
(c)   standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, for the ICB and LCB procurement
of computer equipment be adopted by MINEDUC (paras. 5.8(a) and (b));
(d)   FY96 counterpart funding for MECE-EM be submitted to Congress for its approval
(paras. 2.54 and 4.4); and
(e)   a legal opinion on behalf of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, by a counsel
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the validity and execution of the Loan
Agreement, be furnished to the Bank.
7.3   As a condition for disbursement of PDE subprojects, selected schools would enter into an
agreement with MINEDUC, satisfactory to the Bank, through the SEREMIs. Such an agreement
would be a prerequisite to Bank financing of any subproject.
B. Recommendation
7.4   Subject to the above assurance and conditions, the project would constitute a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent for the Republic of Chile, repayable in 15 years, including
five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.






ANNEXES






- 46 -                               Annex A
CHILE
SOCIAL EXPENDITURES AND INDICATORS
Table A:1 Chile - Poverty Indicators
Year                 1987        1990         1992
Per Capita GNP (US$)        1,445       2,144         2,726
Income Received by the                   6.0           6.5
Poorest 20 percent (percent)
Income Received by the                   52.2          51.8
Richest 20 percent (percent)
Gini Coefficient          51.1        50.7          50.4
Indigent (percent of total)   16.8        13.8          9.0
Poor but not Indigent (percent of  27.8      26.3          23.7
Total)
Source: CASEN 1987, 1990, and 1992.
Note:   Gini coefficient, based on monetary income (including subsidies), is
calculated by the program Poverty Calculation (POVCAL).
Table A:2 Chile - Public Expenditures 1990-1993
(percent of Total Government Expenditures)
Social     Other          Total
Year  Education     Health    Housing  Security    Subsidies
1989     11.7        9.2        4.7      27.7        0.2           53.5
1990     11.8        9.3        4.9      29.7        0.1           55.8
1991     12.0        9.9        5.3      28.0        0.1           55.3
1992     12.7       10.6        5.3      27.3        0.1           56.0
Source:  Ministerio de Hacienda, "Estadfstica de las Finanzas Pdblicas, 1989-92", Santiago,
Chile



- 47 -                               Annex A
Table A:3 Chile - Public Expendkures 1990-1993
(percent of GDP)
Social     Other         Total
Year  Education    Health    Housing  Security    Subsidia
1989     2.8        2.2        1.1       6.7        1.2           14.0
1990     2.7        2.1        1.1       6.9        1.1           13.9
1991     2.9        2.4        1.3       6.7        1.2           14.5
1992     3.0        2.6        1.3      6.6         1.3           14.8
1993     3.0        2.7        1.3      6.9         1.4           15.3
Source: Ministerio de Hacienda, Direcci6n de Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile
Table A:4 Chile - Public Social Expenditures 1990-1993
percent of Total Social Expenditures)
Social Sector   1990       1991       1992        1993
Education      19.5       20.0       29.7        19.5
Health       15.3        16.4       17.4       17.8
Housing       8.0         8.7        8.7         8.7
Social Security    49.0     46.6       44.7        44.8
Other Subsidies    8.2       8.3        8.5         9.2
Total       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
Source: Ministerio de Hacienda, Direcci6n de Presupuesto, 1993. Saniago, Chile



- 48 -                                                   Annex A
Table A:5 Chile - Social Indicators of Development
Lt   Si|k YAK_ Redwi_/bae_    G
Mg    LI   Lon                      NWt
Recet   Ams   Mid& e                  li_her
Indicator                       Unit Me_ure           1970-75   196045    EAiiat   Cariben    lmene               InMe
1997-1992                              Grip
RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES
HUMAN RESOURCES
Pop.(Mre=1992)                  thounds                10,350     12,122      13,599     453,294    942,347      477,960
Age Dep. Ratio                   atio                    0.73      0.59         0.38        0.67       0.66         0.64
Urban                            % of pop.               78.4       83.2        85.1        72.9       37.0         71.7
Pop. Growth Rate                a    l%                   1.6        1.7         1.6         1.7        1.4          1.6
Ueban                                                     2.4       2.2          1.9         2.6        4.8          2.5
Labor Force(15-64)              thousnds                3,322     4,276        4,922     166,091                  181,414
Agriculture                      % of lab.force            20        16
Industry                                                  27         23
Female                                                    23         28          29           27         36           29
Urban                           number                    115       108
Rural                                                      84        78
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                            thou.aq.km.            756.95    756.95       756.95   20,507.48  40,697.37    21,336.02
Density                         pop.per.sq.-k.           13.7       16.0        17.7        21.7       22.8         21.3
Agricultural And                % of land area           21.8       23.5        24.0        40.2                    41.7
Cabnge in Agric. Land           Annual%                   2.0        0.4         0.8         0.5                     0.3
Agric.Land under rrig.           %                        7.6        7.1         7.1         3.2                     9.3
Forecs & Woodland               thou.cq.km.                87        88           88
INCOME
Share of top 20% of Households   % of income                                     32
Shar of Bodtom 40% of                                                             17
Sharc  *    20% of**                                                               7
EXPENDITURE
Food                             % of GDP                          21.4
Stapks                                                              5.3
Meat, Fsth, Milk, Cheese, Eggs                                       8.1
Cereal ImpoIs                   tbou. m.t.                716       486        1,095      25,032     74,924       49,174
Food Aid in Cereal                  *                     323        10           13       1,779      4,054          282



- 49 -                                                    Annex A
Latest SnaIe Yea.               Some Reion/le GmU
Mad          Lath          Low           Nat
Recat       America          fif  ide
Indiator                          Unit Measure          1970-7S    1980-8S    Esimate    Caribben           hicme         leme
1987-92                                    Group
RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES
EXPENDITURE (Cnt)
FoodProductionpercapita           1987=100                   94         97         119           104                         109
PFertilizer Consumption           kgfha                     5.6       11.6        17.3          15.5                        68.8
Share of Agric. in GDP            % of GDP                  6.6        7.4         8.5           8.9                         8.1
Housing                           % of GDP                            10.0
Averge household size             per.per Haehold           5.0
Urban                                                       5.0
FLxed Invesing Housing            % of GPD                  4.5        4.2
Fuel & Power                      % of GDP                             1.6
Energy Consump. per Capita        kg. of oil equiv.         567       570          837          912           1,882        1,649
Transport and Communication       % of GDP                             8.0
Fxed Invest. Trans. Equipment                               2.8        2.9
Totl Road Length                  thou.kn.                   75        79           80
EVEfTh4MD  IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Pop. per Physician                persons                 2,160      1,231       2,152
Pop. per nurse                                              459       371          335
Pop. per Hospital Bed                                       265       294          320          508            516           385
Orl Rehyd. Therapy (under 5)      % of ccaes                                         1           62                           54
GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIO
Secondary                         %of schl.age pop.          48        67           72           47                           53
Female                                                      52         70          75
Pupil Teacher Ratio Primary       pupils per teacher         35        33           25           25             26            25
Pupil Teacher Ratio Secondary                                16
Pupils Reaching Grmde 4           % of Cohort                84        96                                                     71
RepesterRate Priny                % oftotal Enroll           12         7                         14                          11
Illiteay                          % of pop.(agel5+)          11         8            7            15                          14
Pemae                             % of fem.(agel5+)                     8           7            17                          17
Newsper Circulation               per thou. pop.             90        94          455           99            100           117
World Bank International Economics Depanment, April 1994



CHILE
EDUCATION SYSTEM ORGANIZATION
Chart B:1 Chile - Organizational Chart for
MINEDUC, SEREMIS, and DEPROV
Minister     j
Central Level                                                                 I
(MINEDUC)                                                               Office of The
Undersecretary for
Educabon
General Education     Higher Education      Cultural Extension  Planning and Budget                                                                Directorate of
Division             Division              Division              Dividon                                                                    Libraries Archives
and Museums
General         Teacher Training and                         0
Legal             Administration     Educabon Research
Department            Department              Center
Ministerial Regional
Regional Level                                                         Secretariat of
(SEREMIS)                                                                Education
(13)
Deepar t Of             partment of         Department of            Legal              Department of
Education              Culture              Planning             Department           Administration
Provincial Level                                                    Provincial Education
(DEPROV)                                                              Department (40)
Section torTechnical          SecUon for                                                                         W
and Pedagogical          Administrative and
Supervision            Finance Inspection
bea%w1741 (15)



- 51 -                                                     Annex B
Chart B:2 Chile - Organizational Chart for Municipal Administration
Mayor
Community           1            Municipal W o                          Office of the n    dTra              nicalandu
Development       Department                                                 tie                  T      ransportationve
Community  Municipal VVorks                Department of                De~~~Municpalteto
Dealmn                                                               A     meitesTrnsottio
Finance                     Controller's                              Legal                      Municipal
Department                    Department                             Department                    Edepartmnt
Department74



- 52 -                                      Annex C
CHDILE
EDUCATION STATISIICS
Table C:1 Chile - Schools by Levels and Type of School in 1993
Lv          Municipl       Priva         Pivate    Corporation       Total
Mumclp&l  Subsidized      Paid
Preschool      2,361          1,289         683           2            4,335
Primary        5,888         2,166         556            3           8,613
Specisl        212            167           4            0             383
Scieatific-     711           456           396           12           1,575
Humanistic
Secndary
Technical-      398            294            8           85            785
Vocational
S3ondary
Total        9,570          4,372        1,647         102           15,691
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile
Note: *Otber comprise artistic and sport schools.
Table C:2 Chile - Total Enrollment by Levels and Type of School in 1993
Level       Municipal      Privab        Private    Corporations      Total
Subsidized     Paid
Preschool     134,370        86,315       35,596         67           256,348
Primary      1,239,000      669,200      155,824        1,081       2,066,046
Special       16,763        15,535         121           0           32,419
Scientific-   218,920        104,094      64,072        4,371         391,457
Humnanistic
Technical-     115,626        98,371       1,087        46,274        261,358
Vocational
Secondary
Total       1,725,620      973,515      256,700       51,793       3,007,628
Source: MINEDUC, Division de Planificacion y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile



-53-                                           Annex C
Table C:3 Chile - Teacher and School Principals by Levels
and Type of School in 1993
Private       Private
Level        Municipal      Subsidized       Paid      Corporations        Total
Preschool       4,494           2,443         2,473           4             9,415
Primary        53,821          18,382        6,564           38            78,813
Special        2,629           1,325          241            0             4,228
Scientific-
Humanistic and
Technical-      22,474          14,365        10,228         3,107          50,187
Vocational
Total         83,418         36,515         19,506        3,149           142,643
Source: MIKEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile
Table C:4 Chile - Secondary Enrollment by Track, Region
and Rural Areas in 1993
Scientific-    Technical-                      %       X
Region       Humanistic      Vocational        Total       Rural    of
Track          Track                               Total
1           11,661          8,525           20,186        2.5    3.1
nI           16,292         7,908           24,200        0.0    3.7
m            7,101           5,427           12,528       1.8    1.9
IV           16,525          9,902           26,427        1.0    4.0
V            50,879         21,311          72,190        2.4    11.0
VI           23,767          9,105           32,872       2.5    5.0
vn           21,961          14,441          36,402        3.9    5.5
Vlll          54,099         29,903          84,002        2.7    12.4
IX           18,326         18,857           37,183       2.7    5.7
X            25,991         14,981          40,972        3.6    6.1
Xl           2,714           1,296           4,010        3.8    0.6
Xll           4,379          3,323            7,702        0.0    1.2
Metropolitan     137,762        116,379         254,141        1.8    39.8
Total         391,457        261,358         652,815       2.2   100.0
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaei6n y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile



- 54-                                         AnnexC
Table C:5 Chile - Secondary Gross Enrollment: 197-1992 Rate Trend
Year           Percentage
1970          49.7
1982          65.0
1984          73.3
1986          77.3
1988          81.8
1990          80.0
1992          76.2
Source: MINEDUC, Division de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chle
Table C:6 Latin America - Comparative Education Indicators
Educational                            Enrollnnt Ratos
lilterate Popul.  Expenditure     Pre-School
as  of lS+       uPercentof        Ed.-'      PrimrwyEd.    SecondaryEd.   HlghwrEd.
Total   Female   GNP   Gov. Exp.     Not      Gross   Not   Groas    Not      Gros
ARGENTNA
1975           NA       NA      2.5      9.6        NIA      106    96       54     42       27.2
1980           6.1      NA      3.6      15.1        28      106    90    S5        36       21.6
1992*          4.5      5.0     4.0      8.9         39      116    90       74    S5        40.J
BRAZIL
1976           24.3     NA      3.0      NA         NA        88     71      26      9        10.7
1980           25.5     NA      3.5      NA          14       99     e1      34      14       11.9
1992-          22.3    23.5    4.5       17.7        27       96     84      38      1S       10.9
CHILE
1975           NA       NA      4.1      12.0        NA      112    94       S0     34        15.6
1980           8.9      NA      4.6      11.9        24      112    98       65               13.2
1992           5.6      NA      3.2      11.2        32       98     87      76     55       17.8
COLOMBIA
1975           NA       NA      2.2      16.4        NA      118             39               8.0
1980           14.8    NA       1.9      14.3        10      128    75      44               10.6
1992-          11.9    12.9    2.7       22.4        14      122    73       6e              13.6
PERU
1975           27.6    38.2    3.6       17.5        NA      113            48               14.6
1980           18.1    26.1    3.2       12.8        25      114    86      59               19.4
1992-          13.0    20.1    2.4       16.4        29      118    87       64              25.5
URUGUAY
1976           6.1      NA      2.2      10.0        NA      107             60              16.0
1980           NA       NA      2.6      9.3         26      106             60              17.3
1992           4.6     4.1      3.1      16.1        23      109    91       77              47.8
Souroas: UNESCO Statitical Yearbook, 1990; World Bank, Social Indicators Data Bass
(*) 1992 or latest
(1') Enrolnwnt a a percentage of children *ged 3-S.



-55-                                               Annex C
Table C:7 Solectd Asian and OECD Coubmis
Comparative Education hndicatos. 1992
Educationcl           Enrollment Ratios
Ulterate Popul.    Expenditure.
as percent of     as Percent of     Primary Ed.    Secondary Ed.
Total hima       GNP    Gov. Exp.  Oras    Not   Cron    Not
Asi
Hong Kong          ...     ...      2.3      15.9      108    ...      75
Idoneria          18.4    24.7      3.0      9.8       117    98      4S       38
Korea, Republic of   3.7   6.5      7.9      16.2      107    100     87       79
Malaysia          21.6    29.6      5.0      16.9      93      ...    S6
Singapore         ...               3.2      11.5      108    100      70
Thailand          7.0      10.1     2.6      21.1      90      ...     33
OECD
United Statec                       5.3      14.7     104    ...      ...     88
France                              5.2      10.6      109    ...     ...      83
Unitd Kingdom                       5.2      12.5     105    ...      ...     79
Soures: UNESCO Wodd Education Report. 1993; World Bank, Social Indicators Data Base; Education
at a Glance, OECD Indicators. 1993.
(i) 1992 or latat avaiable
i--l According to UNESCO, Uliteracy Is I1s than 5 percent
Table C:8 Chile - Rates of Return to Investments in Secondary Education a/
(in percent)
Year          Private          Social
1960           12.5             10.6
1965           10.6              8.8
1968           12.3             10.0
1972           10.1              7.7
1976           12.2             9.7
1978           11.1              8.8
1982           11.2             9.0
1985           11.0             9.2
1990           10.7              8.5
a/:       lEstimated with the net present value of the direct and indirect educationa costs and benefits valued at prices
prevailing in the private sector.
Source:    Riveros, L. Tmhe Economic Return to Schooling in Chile. An Analysis of its Long-tem Fluctuaion,
Economic of Education Review, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 111-121, 1990.



- 56 -                                        Annex C
Table C:9 Chile - Repetition and Dropout Rate, by Type of School in 1993
(in percent)
Type of     Repetition     Dropout     Repetition  Dropout  Repetition  Dropout
School        S-H           S-H        T-VOC    T-VOC        Both        Both
Municipal      13.9           8.8         15.2       7.8      14.4         8.4
Private        9.1          4.5          13.1      7.1       11.0         5.8
Subsidized
Private        4.0          2.4          9.4        4.4       4.0         2.5
Paid
Corporations     8.4           5.3         10.0       5.5       9.8         5.4
Total         11.0          6.6         13.5       7.1       12.0        6.7
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile
Table C:1O Chile - Repetition and Dropout Rates by Region in 1993
(in percent)
oRepetition   Dropout     Repetition  Dropout  Repetition   Dropout
Region        S-H           S-H         T-VOC    T-VOC       Both         Both
I           11.7          8.4         12.5       7.6       12.0         8.1
a           12.7          6.6          18.1      5.2       14.4         6.2
III         15.4           8.4         13.3       7.8      14.5         8.1
IV           11.5          6.3         13.4       8.1       13.3        7.0
V           10.5          6.9          12.1      6.1       11.0         6.7
VI           10.4          6.6         8.0        4.5       9.7         6.0
VII          11.6          7.9         13.6       7.1       12.4         7.5
VIII         13.2          7.4          12.1      6.1       12.8         7.0
IX           12.6          7.5         16.4       8.2       14.5        7.8
X           12.3          8.3          13.7      6.4       12.8         7.7
Xl           16.9          8.8         20.8       5.6       18.0        7.9
XII          12.1          5.0         11.5       4.6       11.8         4.8
Metropolitan     9.1           5.2         13.4       7.7       11.0        6.3
Total         11.0          6.6         13.5       7.1       12.0        6.8
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1993. Santiago, Chile



-57-                                          AnnexC
Table C:11 Chile - Cohort Average Length of Study:
1975-92 Trend by Type of School and Track
(in years)
Private    Private-
Cohort      Secondary    Municipal    Subsidized    Paid
1975-1980       5.7          6.1           5.4       4.6
1977-1982       5.6          5.9           5.3       4.5
1980-1985       5.4          5.6          5.0        4.4
1985-1990       5.2          5.6          5.0        4.4
1987-1992       5.3          5.7           5.0       4.4
Soure: MNEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chile
Table C: 12 Chile - Secondary Enrollment Lagging Behind Standard Age
(in percent of total enrollment)
Grade      Percentage
1t d30.9
2nd          32.1
3 rd        30.5
4tb         26.8
Source:   Source: Jarufe T., et al., "Indicadores de Cobertura en la Educaci6n Media"
Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, Santiago, 1993.



- 58 -                                       Annex C
Table C:13 Chile - Cognitive Achievement in Spanish and Mathematics
by Type of School and Track
(in percent of correct answers)
S-H Track                      T-VOC
Track
Private-Paid    Private-Subsidized   Municipal
Grade    Ist 2nd 4th  Ist 2nd  4th    lst 2nd  4th  Ist 2nd 4th
Spamish   60   56  55  48   47   47    40  41   43   43  38  39
Math      42   37  30  29   26   22    26   24   20   25  22  20
Source:    Jarufe, T., and Himmel, E., 'Determinaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Media Chilena.
Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, Santiago, 1993
Table C:14 Chile - Secondary Enrollment Trend by Income Quintile
(in percent of total enrollment)
Enrollment
Income Quintile    1987    1990   1992
1             70.4    71.4   73.4
2             77.1    79.6   77.5
3             85.4    77.8   81.8
4             88.4    86.1    87.7
5             96.1    96.2   96.9
Total           80.9    80.2   81.9
Source:    ODEPLAN, Encuesta CASEN 1987, Departamento de Planificaci6n y Estudios.
MIDEPLAN, Encuesta CASEN 1990 y 1992, Santiago, 1993.



-59-                                         Annex C
Table C:15 Chile - Secondary Enrollment Rate by Region
and Urban-Rural Areas in 1990
(in percent)
Region    Urban       Ruml       Total
1       93.4         60.4       92.4
I[       90.1        42.6       89.6
Im        84.0        68.2       83.1
IV       86.0         49.6      73.3
V       86.4         62.0       83.4
VI       82.3         58.0      73.7
VI        88.1        38.8       66.8
vm        83.6         49.7       75.6
ix       84.4         40.5      66.6
X       82.1         40.1       63.4
xi       78.7        62.2       75.5
XII       87.2        64.5       86.3
Metrop      84.8        67.2       84.2
Total      85.3        48.7       79.0
Source: CASEN Survey, Departarento de Planificaci6n y Estudios Socidles, MIDEPLAN, 1990.
Table C:16 Chile - Secondary Enrollment by Income and Type of School
(in percent of total enrollment)
Type of School       Upper-middle and Upper   Lower-middle and Lower
Income Household         Income Households
Private-Paid                 100                         0
Private-Subsidized           42                         58
Municipal                    18                         82
Source:  MNEDUC, SIMCE-Secondary, 1993.



- 60 -                                 Annex C
Table C:17 Chile - Secondary Schools Ranked by Achievement Results
(in percent of total schools)
School Ranking
Type of School    _ Lower        _[Middle                    1JUpper
____  Spanish    Math   Spanish    Math    Spanish   Math
S-H Track
Private-Paid        3.5      0.0       7.9       10.2     53.5     61.3
Private-Subsidized    15.8  21.1      23.7      23.9      32.6     22.6
Municipal          28.1     42.1      39.5      28.4      11.6      9.7
T-VOC Schools      52.6     36.8      28.9      37.5      2.3       6.5
Source:  Jarufe, T., and Himmel, E., "Determinaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Media
Chilena'. Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, Santiago, 1993.
Note:   Given X the mean score and S the standard deviation, then:
Lower ranking (LR) schools if school score is below (X-0.5S)
Upper ranking (UR) schools if school score is above (X+0.5S)
Mfiddle rnking (MR) schools if school score is above LR but below UR.
Table C:18 Chile - Destiny of Secondary School Graduates by Socioeconomic Status
(in percent of total graduates)
Destination of                             Income Quintile
Secondary
Graduates          I        II        il        IV        V       Total
Higher Education    4.8      8.7       9.7      23.5      45.0     15.4
Employed           25.5     42.1       49.9     43.9      29.3     38.9
Unemployed         18.4      7.2       6.0       4.7       1.7      8.2
Inactive           40.1     34.3       28.1     13.4      14.7    27.8
Other Studies      11.2      7.7       6.3      14.5       9.3      9.7
Total             100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Source: Larrainaga J.O., "Financiamiento Universitario y Equidad: Chile 1990" Cuadernos de
Economfa, Vol 29, No 88, December 1992.






- 61 -                                   Annex D
CHILE
EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Table D:1 Public Educational Expenditures as Percent of GDP
and Total Public Expenditures (TPE)
(in percent)
Year         Percent       Percent
of GDP       of TPE
1980          4.1          11.3
1982          5.5          12.3
1984          4.7          12.6
1986          4.0          10.9
1988          3.4           9.1
1990          2.8           9.7
1992          3.0          11.2
Source:   MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992.
Santiago, Chile
Table D:2 Selected Developed Countries - Public Educational Expenditures
as Percent of GDP and Total Public Expenditures (TPE)
(in percent)
Country           Percent     Percent
of GDP      of TPE
USA               7.4          13.8
Japan             5.0          11.4
France            6.0          8.0
Germany           5.4           na
Spain             5.6           na
Av.OECD           6.4          12.8
Hungary           6.7           na
Chile             3.0          11.2
Source: MINEDUC, Division de Planificacidn y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago,
OECD,"Education at a Glance: OECD Indicators". Paris 1993.



- 62 -                                           Annex D
Table D:3 Total Educational Expenditures by Source
(in percent)
Public Funding                    Private Funding
Year    MINEDUC        PNDR         Municipal    University    Non-Univernity   Total
1989       47            1             3            19            31             100
1990       45            1             2            20            32             100
1991       46            1             2            19            31             100
1992       47            2             3           21             29            100
Souree: MINEDUC, Division de Planificacion y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chile
Notes: MINEDUC includes all educationa costs, including higher education subsidies.
Municipal includes own-generated resources from contributions and income other than the federal subsidy payment.
University spending has been estimated by the Bank on the basis of enrollment, unit costs, and share of unit costs in
public and private universities.
Non-university private expenditures includes preschool, primary, and secondary paid private schools. Does not include
estimate of parents' contributions to private-subsidized schools.
Table D:4 Educational Expenditures by Category of Expense
(in percent)
Opeational Expenditures               Subsidies
Year    Personal     Services     Texts      Subvention Higher     Other  Invest.   Total
Education
1970      47.6        5.7          0.0         3.4      29.4        3.4      10.5    100.0
1980      50.3        3.2          0.3         7.3      37.5        0.4      1.0    100.0
1985      12.9         1.6         0.2        45.2      27.6       12.4      0.2    100.0
1990       5.3         1.2         0.1        63.8       18.8      10.5      0.2    100.0
1992       5.5         2.6         0.3        56.9       16.8      17.1      0.8    100.0
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chile.



- 63 -                                        Annex D
Table D:5  Annual Growth of Educational Expenditures by Educational Level
(in mil lon constant pesos of Decanber 1992)
Year      Preschool    Basic       S-H         T-VOC     Subsidies   Total
Secondary   Secondary    to       Public
Higher    Educat
Eduation    Spending
1980       25,354.8  165,697.1   36,755.9    22,136.0   147,103.5  418,027.4
1992        36,594.6  232,591.8   36,353.5    32,337.7   86,620.7  438,122.9
Growth          3.1       2.9        -0.1         3.2       -4.3       0.4
(pecent)
Source: MINEDUC, Divisidn do Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Table D:6 Distribution of Educational E:xpenditures by Educational Level
(in percent)
yeu       Preschool    Basic       S-H        T-VOC      Subsidies   Total
Secondary  Secondary     to        Public
HgE       Educat.
Education    Speding
1980         6.1        39.6        8.8        5.3        35.2       100.0
1985         6.2        47.0       11.0        4.6        27.3       100.0
1990         7.9        52.4       10.2        7.2        19.6       100.0
1992         8.4        53.1        8.3        7.4        19.8       100.0
Source: MINEDUC, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, 1992. Santiago, Chile.






- 64 -                                                         Annex E
CHE SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMOROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES AND FINANCING
Table E:1 Project Cost by Component and Main Expenditure Category
(IJS$'000)
Civil     Comput       Tedtboos   PDEs        Cos.       Salre       Fwrittsre    Tran.       PCU          TOTAL
Wors    Equip.         Maual        (n)    Svic                      Equip.      Pw Dim       Prsol
OpW.
Teching                                                   Cam
Matsrik
Reformulation of                  19       2,358       218       2,771         753                     142                     6,260
Curriculum and
Development of
Evaluation
Capacity
Alternative                                4,532                 7,791                      13       3,420                    15,756
Cunicular
Activities for at
Riak Secondary
Students
I inkge with the                              13                     4                                 823                      840
Private Productive
Sector
Pedagogical                                 1,205                1,167                                1,484                    3,856
Proces
Transformation
PDE                                           74    23,875         360                                 105                    24,414
Educational                  22,810       59,864                 7,446                                 544                    90,664
Resources
Infrstmoture      30,649                                           102                  17,757         165                    43,672
insiutional                                  160                 5,020                               3,992                     9,172
Strengthening
Pwject                           21                              1,286                               3,452         2,604       7,364
Coordination Unit
Total Project     30,649     22,850       68,207    24,093      25,948        753       17,770      14,126         2,604    207,000
cod *
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding. Totals include taxes and contingencies.



- 65 -                                                        Annex E
Table E:2 Project Cost by Component and Year of Implementation
(US$'OOO)
1995        19            1997         1998          1999        2000      TOal
Reformulation of Curicuhun and     460        1,579          1,653        1,244        5S0           744       6,260
Development of Evaluation
Capacity
Alternative Currkular Activitiea  1,247      2,600          3,696         4,398       2,497        1,318       15,756
for at Risk Secondary Studeoa
linkagewith tbe Private             61         105            286           372          11            4         340
Productive Sector
Pedagogio Procea                   594         875          1,052           494         474          367       3,356
Trnsformation
PDEs                                64        1,462         4,276         7,452       6,359        4,302      24,414
Educatonal Reaurce               5,179      26,066         23,192        22,373       7,450        6,404      90,664
frasitructure                    4,518      23,915         13,288         1,952           0            0      43,672
Institutional Strengdiening        377        1,163         1,755         2,669        1,915       1,293       9,172
Project Coordinaion Unit           728        1,660         1,255         1,655       1,027        1,040       7,364
Toal Project Coat a/            13,228      59,423         55,454        42,609      20,S13       15,473     207,000
I Totals may not add due to rounding
Table E:3 Project Cost by Main Category of Expenditure and Year of lmplenentation
(US$'OOO)
1995       1996        1997           1998          1999        2000         Totl
Civil Worka                      2,740       15,859        12,051             0           0            0      30,649
Computing Equipment                267       6,625          7,853         7,960         145            0      22,550
Textboob and Manuals               270        5,623         6,184         5,574       5,497        5,586      28,735
libraries and Teaching Aids      4,566       14,649        10,305         9,024         663         265       39,472
PDEa                                31        1,395         4,214         7,390       6,S14        4,248      24,093
Conadtait Services               1,383       4,020          4,873         6,766       5,528        3,379      25,948
Salaries                            75         129            133           136         138          142         753
Purniture and Equipment          1,740       7,953          6,132         1,946           0            0      17,770
Tranusportation and Per Diem       953        1,395          1,413        1,290         624          579       6,253
Operating Costa                    913        1,442         1,954         1,990         859          716       7,873
PCU Peronnel                       291         334            343           534         545          558       2,606
TOTALa/                         13,228       59,423        55,454        42,609      20,513       15,473     207,000
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding



- 66 -                                                      Annex E
Table E:4  Detailed Project Cost by Component and Subcomponent and Year of Jmpln                       on
(USS'OOO)
1995       199C        1997           1996         1999        2000       Told
Rewor. of Curicuhm and
Devdop. of Eval. Capacity
Cuniculum and Evluation Unit         5          143           146           150         153         156         332
Cumrular Ptoduct                   216        1,035           S31          616            0         1S6        2,814
Evaluation and Coutfication         45         317            569          402          329         358        2,019
Disemination                        31           36            37            37          38          39         218
Technical Aaiance                   65           49            71            39          61           5         289
Equipment                           19           0              0             0           0           0           19
Sub-Totl                             460       1,579          1,653        1,244         530         744        6,260
Awamative Cwricolar Ativ. for at
Risk Sw    y Stadm
Training                           240          49S           645           660           0           0        2,043
Workshop Materials                 509          974         1,356         1,585         895         457        5,776
P_onnel                            445        1,029          1,556        1,931       1,468         779        7,258
Monitoing                           52           99           140           172         134          32         680
Sub-Toal                           1,247       2,600          3,696        4,393       2,497        1,318      15,756
linkage wit the Psi,. Prod. Sector
In ServiceTewcherTraining           50          96            275          361            0           0         7S3
Cefti6cation                         0           0              1            5            3           0           9
Disemination                        11           9             10            6            8           4          48
Sub-Total                            61          105           2S6           372          11           4          340
Pedagogial Proc. Traufona.
Tochnicl Aigance                    156         179           134           13S         192         196        1,095
Training Materials                 208         432            598           30            0           0        1,268
Traing Eventa                       93          107           110           112         114           0         537
Monitoring                         136          157           161           164         167         171         957
Sob-Tow                             594         875          1,052          494         474          367       3,856
PDFa
Taining                             44          50             52           53           54          55         307
TrainingMateriaIr                    7          33             14            IS          12          20          105
Goat hnd                             4        1,363         4,193         7,372       6,7S8       4,221      23,942
Disamination                         4           11            12            4            0           1          33
Monitoriqg                           4           4              5            5            5           5          27
Sub-Toa                             64        1,462         4,276         7,452       6,959       4,302      24,414



- 67 -                                                      Annex E
1995       1996        1997           1998         1999        2000       Totel
Ed_1 AM
Technical Asaignce                  10           11 1                       12          12          12           68
Textbook                             0        4,828         4,941         5,050       5,156       5,274       25,248
School Libraries                  4,404       9,108         9,117         3,493         190          33       26,345
Teaching Materils                  306        4,913            99         3,970          68           0        9,355
School Computer Networ             460        7,206         9,023         9,848       2,024        1,085      29,647
Sob-Toal                           5,179      26,066         23,192       22,373       7,450        6,404      90,664
infr2sbVta
ConMructionandRefiubiding         2,792      11,838         12,157            6           0           0       26,793
EquipmentandMaterials             1,726      12,076         6,132         1,946           0           0       21,880
Sob-Total                        4,518       23,915         18,288        1,952           0           0       48,672
Iud S-b_
Studies                              0           0              0           119         121         124         363
Traning                            373          868           966         1,388       1,128        1,156       5,879
TechnicalSupportNetwok               4          295           789         1,162         666          13        2,930
Sub-Ttal                            377        1,163          1,755        2,669        1,915       1,293       9,172
Project Coordratiom Unit
Personnel                          272         313            320          511          522         534        2,471
monitoring                          10           11            11            11          12          12          67
Project Diuemination               446          789           WSO           826         342         329        3,540
EvaluationStudie                     0         548            116           306         151         165        1,286
Sub-Total                           728        1,660          1,255        1,655        1,027       1,040       7,364
TOTAL PROJECT COST WI             13,228      59,423         55,454       42,609      20,813       15,473     207,000
4/ Totals may not add due to rounding



- 68 -                                                       Annex E
Table E.S Project Annual 1inandng by Source and
Category of Expenditure
(US$'OOO)
1995       19           197           1             199         2000      Totd
Bink  -bmca
ConpuUing Equipmut                  0       4,944          5,160         5,940         103           0       16,152
PDaE                               0          913          2,773         4,863       4,414       2,796       15,835
PCU PoraOwn                        0          334            343          534          545         558        2,313
TOTAL I/                             0       6,196          8,976        11,337       5,138        3,353      35,000
Gavm_ FEiag
Civil Woeb                      2,740      t5,159         12,051            0            0           0       30,649
CoayutngEquipnsw                 267        1,681          1,993         2,020          37           0        5,998
Talxeob amd MauaI                270        5,623          6,1S4         5,574       5,497        5,336      21,735
Libntaui  md Tmcbig Aids        4,566      14,649         10,305         9,024         663         265       39,472
FDEb                              31          477          1,441        2,527        2,330        1,453       3,258
Ckxuaima    Suvices             1,333       4,020          4,873        6,766        5,521       3,379       25,941
5515ar1                           75          129            133          136          138         142          753
FurnimW  and Equipuiup          1,740       7,953          6,132         1,946           0           0       17,770
Trnnoatationmnd PwrDiem          953        1,395          1,413         1,290         624         579        6,253
Opsnting Cost                    913        1,442          1,954         1,990         S59         716        7,873
PCU Psraonui                     291            0             0             0            0           0          291
TOTAL Al                        13,225      53,227         46,479        31,272      15,675       12,119     172,000
i/ Totals may not add due to rounding






CHILE: FORECAST SECTOR BUDGET
Table F:l Expected Impact of Project as Percent of
MINEDUC's Forecast Education Budget
(in US$ million)
EdUation     Seod   Sub-Setr         BodgdO                               %           ipw  of
Secor             Budget          Inem by                          TOW Prect       Pr"dec m
Year   Budget                               Projt /    Sec_day         TOWi      Ca          EdaiA
No ject if    Projet                  Budget      IBRD                     Budge
(1)        (2)           (3)        (4)         (5)          (6)        (7)           (8)
(3 - )  + (4)           (5)-(MM)          M (6)I(4)    () -(4U(l)
1994      1334.3     208.3
199S       1411.7     220.4         233.6        13.2         5.7%      0.0         0.0%            0.9%
1996       1493.6     233.2         292.6        59.4        20.3%      6.2        10.5%            4.0%
1997       1580.2     246.7         302.2        55.5        18.4%      9.0        16.3%            3.5%
1998       1671.8     261.0         303.6        42.6        14.0%     11.3        26.6%            2.5%
1999       1768.8     276.2         297.0        20.8         7.0%      5.1        24.6%            1.2%
2000       1871.4     292.2         307.7        15.5         5.0%      3.4        22.0%            0.8%
2002       2094.8     327.0         336.4         9.4         2.8%                                  0.4%
2004       2344.8     366.1         375.5         9.4         2.5%                                  0.4%
2006       2624.7     409.8         419.2         9.4         2.2%                                  0.4%
2008       2938.0     458.7         468.1         9.4         2.0%                                  0.3%
2010       3288.7     513.4         522.8         9.4         1.8%                                  0.3%
Note 11: Budget I asumce growth at 5.8% per annum.
Note 2/: Asuumes growth at 5.8% per annum.
Note 3/: Includes racurrent eoxtb arising from project as of year 2,000.
Sourew: Riveros, L., 'Economic Rtun of a Quality-improving Pmject in the Secondary Education in Chile,"
Dqpaiunent of Econonice, Univenrity of Chile, Santiago, Chile, 1994.






CHILE - YEARLY PROJECT PHYSICAL TARGETS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Table G:1 Yearly Project Component Targets
ACTION PLAN                                          OTARGET        1995    1996    19I7         199      19         2
I.REFORMULATION OF CURRICULUM AND DEVELOPMENT OF EVALUATION CAPACITY
(A) Reformulation of Curriculum
Learning Materials:
Design of curriculum material prototypes                                                         40                 15        25
Reproduction of curriculum material prototypes                                               16,000                        4,800    11,200
Training and Dissemination:
Seminars                                                                                         10        6         4
Sets of materials                                                                               500      300       200
Competitive Pund for activities by Profcgsional Associations                                      6        1         1         1         1        1           1   2.
Study Tours                                                                                      10        2         2         2        2         2
(B) Evaluation Capacity
External Evaluation Sample Test:
12th graders                                                                                 80,000                                 40,000               40,000
Internal Evaluation:
Evaluation sets                                                                              78,400      960    12,240    26,800    19,200    9,600       9,600
Evabuation guidelines                                                                       120,000   24,000   42,000   54,000
Cer Blation:
Ceitification sets for 10th grade students                                                    9,600                                           4,800       4,800
Cestfication scts for 12th grade students from T-VOC                                          2,304      312       270       753      969
C)



ACTION PLAN                                         IOVERALL   199   I   9 1            1997  I199   1  1999I 20
A  TARGET  |
2. ALTERNATIVE CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES FOR AT-RISK SECONDARY STUDENTS
Training:
Schools trained on local teams                                                                 1,480       200       360       460       460
School training sdr on local teams                                                             2,960       400       720       920      920
Work modules on local teamu                                                                   11,840     1,600    2,880      3,680     3,680
Schools trained on Icadership                                                                  1,480       200       360       460       460
School training ses on kadership                                                               4,400       600     1,080     1,380     1,380
Work modules on leadership                                                                    17,760     2,400     4,320     5,520     5,520
Training Workshops:
Work modules                                                                                   9,360       640     1,360     2,040     2,560     1,840        920
Schools with youth workshops                                                                    1,480      320       680     1,020     1,280      920         460
Training sets                                                                                 27,144     1,856    3,944      5,916     7,424    5,336        2,668    i
Nationl Events:                                                                                    6         1         1         1         1         1           1
Student Network:
Daily BuUetin                                                                                600,000   100,000   100,000   100,000    10,000   100,000     100,000
Videos                                                                                        10,360     1,400    2,520      3,220     3,200        0           0
3. LINKAGES WITH THE PRIVATE PRODUCTIVE SECT1OR
Pellowships in privt seCtor                                                                    1,434       108       179      502       645         0          ,
Disemination:
Brochures                                                                                      4,965     1,655               1,655               1,655
Funds for regional meetings                                                                       48         8         8         8         8        8           S
.                                                             >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



ACTION PLAN                                          OVERALL       1995       1996  |  1997  |199         1999       2000
TARGET
4. IN-sERVICE TEACHER TRAINING
Trining:
Workshops for supervisors                                                                        20        4         4         4         4        4
Mateials:
Instructional videos                                                                          3,200     3,200
Pedagogical Modules for teachers                                                            520,500   24,200   176,150  320,150
Videos for teachen                                                                            6,400     3,200    3,200
Teaching manuals for teachen                                                                 40,150     8,150    14,000    18,000
Guide for supervisors                                                                           600      200       200       200
Monitoring instruments                                                                       80,600     8,150   22,150   32,150    18,150
Tra1ing for educational management:
School directors                                                                              2,560     1,120     1,440
organizational managemncnt 1                                                                  4,800      960      1,680    2,160 
Organizational managemcnt II                                                                  4,800                960     1,680     2,160
Training for heads of Professional Technical Units:
Participants                                                                                  4,400                          320       880     1,600       1,600
Training for selfvaluation by teachers:
Participants                                                                                  1,600                                    320      560         720
CD



ACTION PLAN                                      | TARGETR                  1          I|  l  l 
S. SCHOOL-BASED QUALITY EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (PDEs)
Educational Dcvelopment Prjects                                                             2,000               120       360      620      560         340
Manuals                                                                                     8,100               900    2,400    4,800
Training:
Guide                                                                                      18,520              1,350    2,870    4,230    3,670       6,400
Video                                                                                       1,600              1,600
Disemination:
Information brochures                                                                      30,000    6,000    10,000   14,000
Posters                                                                                     2,700              1,100              1,600
Fairs for interchangc of experiences                                                          160                          40       40       40          40
6. PROVISION OF EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES
(A) TEXTBOOKS                                                                                                                                                  w
Sets of textbooks                                                                        1,500,000           300,000  300,000  300,000  300,000     300,000
(B) LIBRARIES
Local libraries:
Textbooks for local libraries                                                           2,281,600  456,320  912,640  912,640
Training materials                                                                         15,500    15,000
Training video                                                                              1,600              1,600
Dissmination seminars                                                                         52                           13       13        13         13
Schools trained                                                                             1,600    1,600



ACTION PLAN                                        | OVERALL       1995     1996  1  I97        IM 8     1999       2000
TARGET                        I        I
(B) LIBRARIES (eont.)
Colective libraries:
Textbooks for collective libraries                                                          500,000                                500,000
Materials for managing libraries                                                            500,000                                500,000
Schools trained                                                                                 200                                    200
System lbraries:
Sets of software                                                                                 25                                              25
Schools trained                                                                                  25                                              25
Information brochures                                                                        11,400     4,900     1,300    1,300     1,300     1,300       1,300
(C) DIDACTIC MATERIAL
Scts of non-curricular materials                                                                930       180      750
Training manual                                                                               4,900     4,900
Teaching Materials Catalogue                                                                  5,400     1,800              1,800     1,800
Sets of didactic materials                                                                    3,200              1,600               1,600
(D) COMPUTER NETWORK
Sets of equipment                                                                             1,373      100       320       476      477
Hardwarc                                                                                         9         3         3         3
Softwar                                                                                          9         3         3         3



ACTION PLAN                                            OVERALL        199        196       1997      199|  l   1999       2000
TARGET
(E) SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE
Projects                                                                                            891       114       388       389
Symbol:
Basic symbols                                                                                     1,473                1,473
Equipment:
Scts of equipment for libries                                                                     1,473      1,473
Sets of equipment for computcr rooms                                                              1,373       100       320        476       477
Sets of equipment for teachers                                                                    1,597                  855       742
Sets of equipment for teaching material                                                           1,597                1,597
7. ENHANCING SECTORAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
Technical Support Network:
Diretories                                                                                        8,500                1,700     1,700     1,700     1,700        1,700    LA



- 76 -                                                             Annex G
Table G:2 Project Implementation Schedule
1995         1996          1997          1998         1999          2000
Reform. of Curricu_m & Develop. of Eval. Capacity
Cuniculum & Evaluation Unit                                       10%           17%           18%           18%          18%           19%
Curricular Products                                               7%            36%           29%          21%           0%            6%
Evaluation & Certification                                        2%            16%           28%          20%           16%           18%
Disemination                                                      14%           16%           17%           17%          18%           18%
Technical Asistance                                               22%           17%           25%           13%          21%           2%
Equipment                                                         100%          0%            0%           0%            0%            0%
SUB-TOTAL                                                           7%           25%           26%           20%           9%            12%
Altenative Currkular Activ. for at Risk Sec. Students
Training                                                           12%          24%           32%          32%           0%            0%
Workshop Materials                                                9             17%           23%          27%           15%           8%
Personnel                                                         6 %           14%           21%          27%           20%           11%
Monitoring                                                        8%            15%           21%          25%           20%           12%
SUB-TOTAL                                                           8%            17%          23%           28%           16%          8%
Linkage with the Private Productive Sector
In-ServiceTeacherTraining                                         6%            12%           35%          46%           0%            0%
Certification                                                     3%            3%            9%           51%           35%           0%
Dissemination                                                     22%           18%           22%           13%          16%           9%
SUB-TOTAL                                                           7%            12%          34%           44%           1%           0%
In-Servke Teacher Tr
Technical Assistance                                               14%          16%           17%           17%         1%            18%
Training Materials                                                 16%          34%           47%           2%           0%            0%
Training Events                                                    17%          20%           20%          21%           21%           0%
Monitoring                                                         14%          16%           17%           17%          18%           18%
SUB-TOTAL                                                           15%          23%           27%           13%           12%          10%
PDEs
Training                                                           14%          16%           17%           17%          18%           18%
Training Materials                                                7%            32%           14%           17%           11%          19%
Grant Fund                                                        0%            6%            18%          31%           28%           18%
Diermination                                                       13%          34%           37%           12%          1%            3%
Monitoring                                                         14%          16%           17%           17%           18%          18%
SUB-TOTAL                                                           0%            6%           18%           31%           28%           18%



- 77 -                                                         Annex G
1995        1996         1997         1998         1999        2000
Eduationa Resoumen
Technical Assistance                                          14%          16%          17%          17%         18%          18%
Textbooks                                                     0%           19%         20%          20%          20%          21%
School Libraries                                              17%          35%         35%          13%          1%           0%
Teaching Materials                                            3%           53%          1%          42%          1%           0%
School Computer Network                                       2%           24%         30%          33%          7%           4%
SUB-TOTAL                                                      6%           29%          26%          25%         8%           7%
Ifradnre
Construction& Refurbishing                                    10%          44%         45%          0%           0%           0%
Equipment & Materials                                         8%           55%         28%          9%           0%           0%
SUB-TOTAL                                                     9%           49%         38%          4%           0%           0%
Tastttional Strengthening
Studies                                                       0%           0%           0%          33%          33%          34%
Training                                                      6%           15%          16%         24%          19%          20%
Technical Support Network                                     0%           10%          27%         40%          23%          0%
SUB-TOTAL                                                      4%           13%          19%          29%          21%          14%
Project Coordination Unit
Personnel                                                     11%          13%          13%         21%          21%          22%
Monitoring                                                    14%          16%          17%          17%         18%          18%
Project Dissemination                                         13%          22%         23%          23%          10%          9%
Evaluation Studiea                                            0%           43%         9%           24%          12%          13%
SUB-TOTAL                                                      10%          23%          17%          22%          14%         14%
TOTAL PROJECT                                                  6%           29%          27%          21%          10%         7%



- 78 -                               Annex H
CHILE - PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
A. Objectives and Structure of the PCU
1.   Project execution would be coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), herein
referred to as MECE-EM PCU. A National Coordinator would be in charge of the PCU, and
assisted by a Secondary Education Project Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator. The MECE-EM
PCU reports to the Minister and Undersecretary of Education through the National Coordinator,
which also is in charge of managing the Bank-financed Primary Education (MECE) Project. The
MECE-EM PCU would assist MINEDUC in overseeing the project's implementation and general
coordination, and ensure that the project's execution is carried out according to established
guidelines, procedures, and agreed targets.
2.   The MECE-EM PCU would consist of a small matrix-type managerial organization2L"
with six program units (reformulation of curriculum and development of evaluation capacity;
altemative curricular activities for socially and educationally at-risk students; in-service teacher
training; school-based quality development projects; educational resources; and infrastructure) and
four support units as shown in Chart H-1. No support units would be established for this project.
Instead, the proposed project would utilize MECE's four existing support units which comprise
the following areas: (i) project planning, programming and monitoring; (ii) procurement,
technical assistance, and personnel; (iii) budgeting, financing, disbursement, accounting, and
auditing; and (iv) legal affairs. These support units would be strengthened to meet the demands
concerming the execution of both MECE and MECE-EM. The program units of MECE-EM
would coordinate and monitor the implementation of their respective project components through
MINEDUC's central, regional, and provincial structures.
3.   The heads of the six program units would report directly to the MECE-EM Coordinator
(through the Deputy Coordinator), who in turn would report to the PCU National Coordinator
(the same person managing the MECE project). Following the structure established by MECE,
the four support units would also report directly to the PCU National Coordinator. The PCU
National Coordinator would be assisted by an Ad-Hoc Overseeing Committee presided by the
Minister of Education and comprised by the Undersecretary of Education, the Director General of
MINEDUC's Education Division, the Director of MINEDUC's Planning and Programming
Division, and the Director of the CPEIP. The Ad-Hoc Overseeing Committee would meet about
every three months to review project implementation, address policy, strategy, and organizational
problems that could affect project execution, and review project monitoring indicators.
___/ In matrix organiztion theory, a program unit is responsible for aaining the
organization's objectives (ends), whereas a support unit is responsible for providing the
services (means) necessary to accomplish the organization's goals. The performance
of the programmatic units measures the effectiveness of the organization (attainment of
goals), whereas the performance of the supportive units measures the effciency of the
organizaion (resource consumption).



Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Organizational Chart
Chart H-1
MECE and MECE-EM
|National Coordination|
d
l  MECE-EM         l
Coordination
MECE-EM
Deputy Coordination
programmatic units
r---------------------------------------- F-- A----_ - ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------
i|  Curriculum    ll       In-Service    ||      Educational   |        Alternative    lllll|  
and Evaluation       Teacher Training          Resources         Curricular Activities
Planning,
l   Programming and
Monitoring
Finance
Procurement
Legal Affairs
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Support Units
bea\w2332a (1 5)



- 80 -                             Annex H
B. Functions and Responsibilities
4.   The specific functions and responsibilities of the PCU and its staff would be to:
(a) PCU National Coordinator: (i) direct and supervise the overall execution of both the
Bank-financed MECE project and the proposed MECE-EM project; (ii) serve as the
technical, administrative, and operational counterpart of the World Bank for both
projects (MCE and MECE-EM); (iii) serve as the official liaison to maintain
communication between both projects and the different levels of authority within
MIEDUC, and between other Ministries, Government agencies, and NGOs; and
(iv) periodically report to the Minister and Undersecretary of MINEDUC, as well as to
the Bank, on the progress of both projects.
(b) MECE-EM PCU Coordinator: (i) coordinate the execution of all the activities
included in MECE-EM; (ii) prepare administrative and technical guidelines and
procedures required for project coordination; (iii) coordinate and administer the
bidding procedures for civil works, local and international consultants, goods, and
services required for the project's coordination; (iv) submit to the Bank on a timely
basis the disbursement applications for civil works, consultants, and goods and services
payments; and (v) periodically report to the PCU National Coordinator on the progress
of the MECE-EM project.
(c) NMEC-EM PCU Deputy Coordinator: (i) coordinate the substantive activities of all
six progran units of the PCU; (ii) establish the appropriate coordination for the
execution of all the activities included under the linkage with the private sector and
institutional strengthening components of MECE-EM; (iii) monitor the execution of the
project according to the project monitoring matrix explained in Annex G, Table G-1
and the project key performance indicators shown in Annex J, Table J-1 (also
incorporated in the Operational Manual); and (iv) report to the PCU National
Coordinator and the MECE-EM Coordinator on the progress achieved.
(d) Coordinator for Reformulation of Curriculum and Development of Evaluation
Capacity: (i) establish in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities in general, and with
the CPEU and SIMCE in particular, the required plan of action to implement the
secondary education curriculum reformulation and development of evaluation capacity;
(ii) transform, in conjunction with the PCU's Planning, Programming, and Monitoring
Coordination, the action plan into specific programs, procedures, schedules, budgets,
and disbursement outflows, required by the coordination of this component;
(iii) monitor the coordination of all subcomponents contained in this project's
component; (iv) report to the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator on
any significant deviations of project targets and procedures related to this component
according to prescribed standards; (v) establish, in conjunction with MINEDUC's
authorities, the strategy and timing to devolve total execution of this component to
MINEDUC's existing structure and implement the agreed action plan; and
(vi) coordinate, in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, all evaluation activities
required by this component during the life of the project.



- 81 -                              Annex H
(e) Coordinator for Alternative Curricular Activities for Socially and Educationally
At-Risk Students: (i) establish, in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities
(Department of Extra Curricular Activities of the General Education Division of
MINEDUC), the required plan of action to provide alternative curricular activities for
at-risk secondary students; (ii) transform, in conjunction with the PCU's Planning,
Programming, and Monitoring Coordination, the action plan into specific programs,
procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement outflows, required by the
coordination of this component; (iii) monitor the coordination of all subcomponents
contained in this project's component; (iv) report to the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator
and Deputy Coordinator on any significant deviations of project targets and procedures
related to this component according to prescribed standards; (v) establish, in
conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, the strategy and timing to devolve total
execution of this component to MINEDUC's existing structure and implement the
agreed action plan; and (vi) coordinate, with MINEDUC authorities, all evaluation
activities required by this component during the life of the project.
(f) Coordinator for In-Service Teacher Training: (i) establish, in conjunction with
MINEDUC authorities, the required plan of action to induce the pedagogical and
school practices transformation envisaged under the project; (ii) transform, in
conjunction with the PCU's Planning, Programming, and Monitoring Area, the action
plan into specific programs, procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement
outflows, required by the coordination of this component; (iii) monitor the coordination
of all subcomponents contained in this project's component; (iv) report to the MECE-
EM PCU Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator on any significant deviations of project
targets and procedures related to this component according to prescribed standards;
(v) establish, in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, the strategy and timing to
devolve total execution of this component to MINEDUC's existing structure and
implement the agreed action plan; and (vi) coordinate, with MINEDUC authorities, all
evaluation activities required by this component during the life of the project.
(g) Coordinator for School-Based Quality Development Projects (PDEs): (i) establish,
in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, the required plan of action to induce the
participation of supervisors, school principals, ad secondary education teachers in the
design and implementation of school-based quality development projects;
(ii) transform, in conjunction with the PCU's Planning, Programming, and Monitoring
Area, the action plan into specific programs, procedures, schedules, budgets, and
disbursement outflows, required by the coordination of this component; (iii) monitor
the coordination of all subcomponents contained in this project's component; (iv) report
to the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator on any significant
deviations of project targets and procedures related to this component according to
prescribed standards; (v) establish, in conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, the
strategy and timing to devolve total execution of this component to MINEDUC's
existing structure and implement the agreed action plan; and (vi) coordinate, with
MINEDUC authorities, all evaluation activities required by this component during the
life of the project.



- 82 -                              Annex H
(h) Coordinator for Educational Resources: (i) establish, in conjunction with MINEDUC
authorities, the required plan of action to provide all the publicly financed secondary
schools with textbooks, school libraries, teaching materials, and computer network and
multi-media classrooms; (ii) transform, in conjunction with the PCU's Planning,
Programming, and Monitoring Area, the action plan into specific programs,
procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement outflows, required by the
coordination of this component; (iii) monitor the coordination of all subcomponents
contained in this project's component; (iv) report to the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator
and Deputy Coordinator on any significant deviations of project targets and procedures
related to this component according to prescribed standards; (v) establish, in
conjunction with MIEDUC authorities, the strategy and timing to devolve total
execution of this component to MIINEDUC's existing structure and implement the
agreed action plan; and (vi) coordinate, with MINEDUC authorities, all evaluation
activities required by this component during the life of the project.
(i) Coordinator for Infrastructure: (i) establish, in conjunction with MIENEDUC's
Infrastructure Unit, the appropriate plan of action to carry out the required construction
and equipping provided by the project; (ii) transform, in conjunction with the PCU's
Planning, Programming, and Monitoring Area, the action plan into specific programs,
procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement outflows, required by the
coordination of this component; (iii) monitor the coordination of all subcomponents
contained in this project's component; (iv) report to the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator
and Deputy Coordinator on any significant deviations of project targets and procedures
related to this component according to prescribed standards; (v) establish, in
conjunction with MINEDUC authorities, the strategy and timing to devolve total
execution of this component to MINEDUC's existing structure and implement the
agreed action plan; and (vi) coordinate, with MINEDUC authorities, all evaluation
activities required by this component during the life of the project.
(j) Coordinator for Planning, Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation: assist the
substantive program units of the PCU to: (i) implement the action plans established for
each project component and subcomponent through the respective programs,
procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement outflows; (ii) assist the MECE-EM
PCU Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator to monitor the coordination of all
components and subcomponents of the project; and (iii) evaluate the project's impact
on the quality, efficiency, and equity of education.
(k) Coordinator for Procurement, Civil Works, and Technical Assistance: assist the
substantive program units of the PCU to: (i) prepare the procurement documents in
accordance with Bank specifications in each bidding procedure required by project
coordination; (ii) coordinate the bidding process, which includes calling for bids,
evaluating bidding proposals, timely reporting to the Bank, acquiring the required
authorization from the Contraloria General de la Republica, signing contracts, and
coordinating the execution of specific contracts; (iii) prepare the bidding documents in
accordance with Bank procedures as required by project coordination; (iv) coordinate
the hiring of local and foreign consultants required during project execution, which



- 83 -                              Annex H
includes caUing for consulting bids, evaluating bidding proposals, timely reporting to
the Bank, signing consulting contracts, and coordinating the execution of specific
contracts; and (v) maintain effective coordination with the MECE-EM PCU
Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator and the specialized counterparts within
MINEDUC.
(1) Coordinator for Fnance, Accounting, and Auditing: assist the substantive program
units of the PCU to: (i) disburse funds according to approved budget and procedures;
(ii) prepare the disbursement applications in accordance with Bank procedures and
guidelines; (iii) carry out the project coordination accounting; (iv) carry out auditing
with the Contraloria General de la Repdiblica following the Bank's guidelines and
procedures; and (v) maintain effective coordination with the MECE-EM PCU
Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator and the specialized counterparts within
MINEDUC.
(m) Coordinator for Legal Affairs: assist the MECE-EM PCU Coordinator and Deputy
Coordinator in all legal aspects of project coordination and execution.
5.   The functions and responsibilities of the Ad-Hoc Overseeing Committee would be to:
(i) provide guidance in policy and strategy during project execution; (ii) ensure the correct
application by PCU's management of targeting criteria during the life of the project; (iii) ensure
project sustainability by confirnming that counterpart funding required during project execution
have been requested by MINEDUC to the Ministry of Finance on a timely fashion;
(iv) recommend to the Minister and Undersecretary of MINEDUC actions to be taken to resolve
any conflict or dispute arising during project execution; and (v) analyze the accomplishments of
project-executed targets. The Overseeing Committee will meet about once every three months to
review project coordination, address policy, strategy, and organizational problems that could
affect project execution, and review project monitoring indicators.
C. Staffing Requirements
6.   During project implementation, the PCU would employ: (i) 12 full-time senior level
professionals with experience in their respective professional fields, preferably with background
in project coordination of a similar nature; (ii) eight technical staff; and (iii) up to eight support
staff (five secretaries and three auxiliary staff) as shown in Table H-1.
D. Financial Administration
7.   PCU personnel will be financed 100 percent by the Loan proceeds. The PCU recurrent
operation (other than personnel) and investment expenditures would be 100 percent financed by
counterpart funding.
8.   The Bank will approve the terms of reference for each higher-level coordination position
as explained in paras. 4(a) to (m) of Annex H, and qualifications, employment conditions and
selection process for the PCU National Coordinator (para. 4(a), Annex H), MECE-EM PCU



- 84 -                                       Annex H
Coordinator (para. 4(b), Annex H), and the MECE-EM PCU Deputy Coordinator (para. 4(c),
Annex H) (also see paras. 5.5 and 5.10).
Table H:1 Staffmg Requirements for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
AREAS                PROFESSIONAL         TECHNICAL    SUPPORT"    TOTAL
PCU General Coordination                12(                  1              2              3
MECE-EM Sub-coordination                1                    1               1             3
MECE-EM Deputy Sub-                     1                    1               1            3
coordination
Reforxmulation of Curriculum and        1                    0              0              1
Evaluation and Development of
Evaluation Capacity
Alternative Curricular Activities for   1                    0              0              1
At-Risk Students
In-Service Teacher Training             1                    0              0              1
School-Based Quality Development        1                    0              0             1
Projects (PDEs)
Educational Resources                   1                    0              0              1
Infrastructure                          1                    0              0              1
Planning, Programming, Monitoring       1                    1               1             3
and Evaluation
Procurement, Civil Works and            1                    1               1            3
Technical Assistance
Finance, Accounting and Auditing        1                    2               1            4
Legal Affairs                           1                    1               1            3
TOTAL                                  12                    8               83'          28
1/     Support staff is expected to work on a pooled basis.
2/     Already employed as General Coordinator of the Bank-financed MECE project (Ln 3410-CH).
3/     Five are support staff and three are auxiliary staff.






- 85 -                              Annex I
CHILE DISBURSEMENTS
Table I:1 Quarterly Disbursement Profile g/
(US$Million)
Quarter            Appraisal          Cumulative
Ending             Estimate              %
FY96
March             1.6                 4.6
June              3.1                 8.9
FY97
September         5.3                15.1
December          7.7                22.0
March             9.2                26.3
June              10.7               30.6
FY98
September        14.2                40.6
December          18.7               53.4
March             19.8               56.6
June             20.8                59.4
FY99
September        23.3                66.6
December         26.9                76.9
March            28.1                80.3
June             29.1                83.1
FYOO
September        30.1                86.0
December         31.9                91.1
March            32.7                93.4
June             33.3                95.1
FY01
September        34.0                97.1
December         35.0                100.0
a Loan assumed to become effective October 1995.






- 86 -                                       Annex J
CHILE - MONrrORING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Performance Indicators'
The key project performance indicators, to be incorporated in the Operational Manual,
are listed below. With regard to this table, it is important to note that in the education sector it is
unrealistic to set hard and fast targets on quality, equity, and efficiency for the short and medium
term. This is largely due to the slow and sometimes unpredictable response of the education
system to change, and to the fact that changes in the educational sector are also dependent on
vanables outside the control of the proposed project. It is nevertheless advisable to monitor the
change of the indicators mentioned below over time, expecting improvements when compared
with the base information.
Table J:1 Key Project Performance Indicators
1. Indicators of Internal Efficiency
Mid-Term
Indicator                                   Base           Review         Target
1993           1998          2001
(a) Repetition at 9th grade                15.03%          12.27%         9.72%
(b) Drop-out at 10th grade                  6.34%          5.56%          4.56%
(c) Average secondary school drop-out      32.07%          26.45%        21.55%
(d) Average number of years to complete   5.35 years      5.10 years    4.84 years
seondary cycle
2. Indicators of Education Quality
Indicator                                                 Mid-Term
Base;'         Review        Target
1993           1998          2001
(a) ANCRZY in mathematics for 10th grade   47.16%          49.34%        53.60%
(b) ANCR in language for 10th grade        57.13%          60.26%        64.94%
22/ Unless otherwise stated, data include municipal, private subsidized, private-paid, and corporation
schools from both the Scientific-Humanistic and Technical-Vocational tracks. Also, the source of the
information is the Division de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, MlNEDUC, and the base year is 1993
or the latest available year.
2    Includes only Scientific-Humanistic schools. Source is SIMCE.
24/  Average Number of Correct Responses (ANCR).



- 87 -                                     Annex J
3. Indicators of Equity
(by type of school ownership)
Area: Internal Efficiency
(a) Repetition for 9th grade       % Repetition     Base        Mid-Term        Target
RatioAv    Review 1998       2001
1993
*Paid-Private Schools                5.29        1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                  17.65        1.00/3.34     1.00/2.84     1.00/2.10
*Private-Subsidized Schools          11.79       1.00/2.23     1.00/1.90      1.00/1.70
(b) Drop-out for 10th grade        % Drop-Out   Base Ratio      Mid-Term        Target
1993      Review 1998       2001
*Paid-Private Schools                2.41        1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                   7.71        1.00/3.20     1.00/2.70     1.00/2.10
OPrivate-Subsidized Schools          5.55        1.00/2.30     1.00/2.10     1.00/1.90
(c) Average secondary School drop-out   % Drop-Out   Base Ratio  Mid-Term       Target
1993      Review 1998       2001
oPaid-Private Schools                11.63       1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                  40.87        1.00/3.51     1.00/2.75     1.00/2.15
*Private-Subsidized Schools         26.80        1.00/2.30     1.00/1.90     1.00/1.63
(d) Average number of years to       Years to     Base Ratio    Mid-Term        Target
complete secondary cycle            Graduate        1993       Review 1998       2001
*Paid-Private Schools                4.41        1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00     1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                   5.73        1.00/1.30     1.00/1.22     1.00/1.13
*Private-Subsidized Schools          5.00        1.00/1.13     1.00/1.10     1.00/1.07
25/  Coreponds to the ratio between paid-private schools and municipal schools or private-subsidized
schools.



- 88 -                                       Annex J
3. lndicators of Equity (continued)
(by type of swhool ownship)
Area: Education Quality
(a) Average Number of Correct          ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in mathematics for 10th       1993           1993       Review 1998        2001
grade (in perceints)L,
OPaid-Private Schools                 63.51        1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00      1.0(10/1.00
*Municipal Schools                    39.92        1.00/0.63      1.00/0.70      1.00/0.79
*Private-Subsidized Schools           47.04        1.00/0.74      1.00/0.82      1.00/0.89
(b) Average Number of Correct          ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in language for 10th grade    1993           1993       Review 1998        2001
(in percents)m!
3Paid-Private Schools                 69.56        1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00
SMunicipal Schools                    50.72        1.00/0.73      1.00/0.82      1.00/0.91
*Private-Subsidized Schools           58.27        1.00/0.84      1.00/0.90      1.00/0.95
(c) Average Number of Correct          ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in mathematics for 12th       1989           1989       Review 1998        2001
grade (in percents)W'
*Paid-Private Schools                 58.50        1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                    34.10        1.00/0.58      1.00/0.66      1.00/0.70
*Private-Subsidized Schools           37.70        1.00/0.64      1.00/0.70      1.0010.75
(d) Average Number of Correct          ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in language for 12th grade    1989           1989       Review 1998        2001
(in percents)
*Paid-Private Schools                 54.80        1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00      1.00/1.00
*Municipal Schools                    39.00        1.00/0.71      1.00/0.80      1.00/0.86
*Private-Subsidized Schools           41.70        1.00/0.76      1.00/0.82      1.00/0.88
26/ See footnote 23.
27/ See footnote 23.
28/ Includes students from Scientific-Humanistic and Technical-Vocational schools. Source is the Prieba de
Aptitud Academica, the college entrance exam for 1989.



- 89 -                                        Annex J
The Borrower agreed during negotiations to include the foliowing equity inpact
indicators in the Operational Manual (paras. 5.5, 5.17, 7.1(b), and 7.2(b)). These additional
equity impact indicators classify secondary schools according to their location and social and
educational risk factors associated with their student population, such as, repetition and dropout
rates, and cognitive achievement scores.
4. Indicators of Equity
(by type of socLal and euatioa risk
attached to the secondary education student popuaiton)
Area: Interal Efficiency
(a) Repetition for 9th grade         % Repetition    Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
19932'      Review 1998        2001
3High-risk schools
3Medium -risk schools
3Low-risk schools
(b) Drop-out for 10th grade           % Drop-Out    Base Ratio      Mid-Term         Target
1993       Review 1998        2001
3High-risk schools
0Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
(c) Average secondary School drop-out   % Drop-Out    Base Ratio    Mid-Term         Target
1993       Review 1998        2001
*High-risk schools
*Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
(d) Average number of years to         Years to      Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
complete secondary cycle               Graduate        1993        Review 1998        2001
*High-risk schools
*Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
29/ Corresponds to the ratio between low-risk schools and medium or high-risk schools.



- 90 -                                        Annex J
4. Indicators of Equity (continued)
(by type of social and educational risks
attached to the secondary education student population)
Area: Education Quality
(a) Average Number of Correct           ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in mathematics for 10th        1993           1993       Review 1998        2001
grade (in percents)&
*High-risk schools
*Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
(b) Average Number of Correct           ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in language for 10th grade     1993           1993       Review 1998        2001
(in percents)y'
*High-risk schools
0Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
(c) Average Number of Correct           ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in mathematics for 12th        1989           1989       Review 1998        2001
grade (in percents)#
*High-risk schools
*Medium-risk schools
*Low-risk schools
(d) Average Number of Correct           ANCR         Base Ratio     Mid-Term         Target
Responses in language for 12th grade     1989          1989        Review 1998        2001
(in percents)
*High-risk schools
*Medium-risk schools
oLow-risk schools
30/ See footnote 23.
I/ See footnote 23.
32/ See footnote 28.



- 91 -                                             Annex J
Table J:2 Supervision Arrangements
PROJECT COMPONENT                            NUMBER OF SUPERVISIONS                       MISSION          TOTAL
COMPOSITION           (SW)
FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FYOO    FYO1
1. MECE-ME's General                  1       2       2       2       2         1           TM,               10
Coordination
2. Curriculum and Evaluation          1       2       2       2        2        1            CE               10
3. Alternative Curricular Activities                                                         CE
4. Linkages with the Private Sector                                                          TM,
5. In-Service Teacher Training                                                               CE
6. PDEs                                                                                     TM,
7. Educational Resources (Texts,      1       2       2       2        2        1           TM2               10
Libraries, Teaching Materials,
Computer Network, and
Tnfraestructure)
8. Institutional Strengthening        1       2       1        1       1        1            OD               7
9. Procurement                                1       1        1       1        1            PS               5
10. Disbursement and Auditing                                                               TM,
11. Slack to preparesupervision       1       2       2       2        2       2                              11
missions and prepare 590 reports
(25 percent of total swa)
TOTAL                              5       11      10      10      10        7                             53
TM, = Task manager
TM2 = Assistant to task manager
CE = Expert in curriculum, evaluation and in-service teacher training
OD = Expert in organizational development
PS = Procurement specialist



- 92 -                             Annex J
B. Scope and Content of the Mid-Term Review
1    During negotiations, the Government: (i) confrmed the following scope and
content of the Mid-Term Review agreed during the appraisal mission; and (ii) agreed
that the Mid-Term Review performance and impact indicators explained below be
included in the Operational Manual (paras. 5.5, 7. 1(b), and 7.2(b)).
2.   The Mid-Term Review would be used as an occasion to assess: (i) the impact of the
project on internal efficiency, quality, and equity, with a special focus on the Key Project
Performance Indicators (Annex J, Table J-1); (ii) completion of the Yearly Project Physical
Targets (Annex G, Table G-1); (iii) the project's coordination, especially in the area of
disbursements, procurement, and annual audits; (iv) progress of the action plan to
institutionalize the coordination of the day-to-day activities of MECE-EM within
MINEDUC's existing structure; and (v) fulfillment of the loan covenants. In addition, the
Mid-Term Review would also include the lessons learned during project implementation to be
incorporated into a Government's action plan for structural reform (para. 2.49).
3.   Specifically, the Mid-Term Review would analyze the extent to which the following
will have occurred:
(a) Reformulation of curriculum and development of evaluation capacity. To
have (by the time of the Mid-Term Review):
*established the Curriculum Planning and Evaluation Unit (CPEU);
Odesigned 40 curriculum material prototypes and reproduced 4,800 copies;
scarried-out consultation seminars with representatives from the education
sector, government and the private sector on new curricular contents;
*launched an annual contest for Professional Associations;
*distributed about 40,000 internal evaluation sets and 120,000 evaluation
guidelines; and
*distributed about 1,300 certification sets to the supervisors of T-VOC
students.
(b) Alternative curricular activities for socially and educationally at-risk
secondary students. To have:
*trained teacher representatives from about 1,000 schools on local teams and
leadership;
eimplemented youth workshops in about 1,000 secondary schools;
Odistributed about 11,000 training sets in 4,000 training workshops;
*implemented 3 national dissemination events;
*distributed around 300,000 daily bulletins; and
Odelivered 7,000 videos.



-93-                               Annex J
(c) Iinkages with the private productive sector. To have:
e assigned about 700 fellowships for teachers to be trained in the private sector;
*disseminated about 3,300 copies of brochures on fiscal incentives for
providing donations to schools; and
*financed 24 regional meetings.
(d) In-service teacher training. To have:
*carried-out 12 workshops for supervisors;
odelivered 3,200 instructional videos;
*distributed about 520,000 teaching modules, 6,400 training videos, and
40,000 manuals for teachers;
*delivered about 62,000 monitoring instruments;
*trained 2,560 school principals;
*trained about 4,800 school personnel in organizational management; and
*trained 4,400 heads of Professional Technical Units and 1,600 teachers in
self-evaluation.
(e) School-based quality educational development projects (PDEs). To have:
*executed about 480 PDEs;
*initiated the process to select 620 new PDEs;
*designed and distributed over 4,000 training guides and 1,600 training videos;
0distributed about 3,000 information brochures and 1,100 posters; and
eimplemented the first set of 40 dissemination fairs.
(f) Provision of educational resources (textbooks, libraries, computer network,
and infrastructure). To have:
*distributed about 600,000 sets of textbooks;
*distributed about 2,300,000 books to local libraries in 1,600 schools;
*designed and distributed about 15,000 training guides and 1,600 training
videos;
*selected schools to hold collective libraries and initiated the selection process
to acquire books for these libraries;
*prepared the design of the training seminars to manage the collective
libraries;
*delivered 930 sets of non-curricular teaching materials and about 4,900
training manuals;
*selected the contents of the Teaching Materials Catalogue and sent 1,800
copies to the schools;
*selected 1,600 sets of teaching materials to be delivered to the schools;
sincorporated about 900 secondary schools into the computer network;
*completed about 900 infrastructure projects to provide secondary schools with
libraries, multi-media rooms, and teacher rooms; and
oprovided 1,500 secondary schools with basic symbols.



- 94 -                             Annex I
(g) Enhancing sectoral management capacity. To have:
*prepared a data base for the TSN, and published and distributed to the
schools the second edition of the corresponding TSN Directory; and
*initiated the preparation of the third edition of the updated TSN Directory.
(h) general objectives of the project. To have:
*established a decreasing trend in repetition and drop-out rates, especially in
the 9th and 10th grades;
*established an increasing trend in the mathematics and language achievement
scores of secondary students; and
*initiated reductions in the secondary education system's inequities, as
manifested by the internal efficiency and education quality indicators;
(i) management objectives of the project. To have:
ethe PCU performing at expected levels, satisfactory to the Bank;
Sadvanced significantly in the process of institutionalizing the coordination of
the day-to-day activities of MECE-ME within MINEDUC's existing structure;
*implemented disbursement and procurement procedures attuned to Bank
guidelines;
-delivered to the Bank the annual operating and auditing reports (short and
long form reports) corresponding to CY95 through CY97;
-disbursed nearly 59 percent of the total loan (approximately US$20.8 million
equivalent);
*assigned authorized counterpart funding of CY95 through CY97 to agreed
categories of expenditures and project components and subcomponents;
3allocated into the Budget Law the counterpart funding for CY98; and
3complied with agreed legal covenants.
Uj) lessons learned of the project. To have:
*reviewed and discussed lessons learned during project implementation to be
incorporated into a Government's action plan for structural reform (para. 2.49).






CHILE - COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
Table K:1 Comparative Education Indicators
Completion Rates     Student        Transition      Average          Average        Unemployment Rate
Secondary      Teacher Ratio      Rate to      Performance     Performance in    Among Secondary
Education                     Tertiary Educ.  in Reading 1/    Mathematics       School Graduates
1991             1991           1991          1991/92          1991192             1991/92
Latin America
Chile                    67.9              15.0           15.4"          44.3              28.5                8.2
OECD
United States            73.9              15.9           69.2           68.5             56,3                 7.3
Franca                   75.8              13.6           49.0           70.8              64.2                6.6
United Kingdom           74.4             1653            27.0            ...              ...                 6.5
Spain                     64.0             16.8            ...           60.8              S5.4                12.2
Italy                    60.7                              ...           65.1              64.2                7.2
Sources: Education at a Glance. OECD Indicators. 1993: MINEDUC-MECE data.
Notes: 1/ Percent correct answers from a total of 100 percent. OECD numbers were calculated using an estimated maximum score of 760 points
for mathematics on the original test means. The Chilean test scores were estimated on the weighted
average scores of all types of secondary schools In the general area of Language Iverbal reasoning and reading). Both, the OECD
and Chilean test scores covered, on average, freshman of 14 years (corresponding to the first year of secondary *chooll.
The Italian mathematics scores are from a sample In Emilia-Romagna.
World Bank estimate.






- 96 -                                  Annex L
CHILE
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN TIHE PROJECT FILE
A. Research Studies Financed by MECE (LI. 3410-CH)
A. 1 Arzola, S., et al, "Destino Educativo Laboral de lo Egresados de Ensenanza Media,"
Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, 1993.
A.2 Cariola, L., et al, "La Experiencia Intemacional en el Disefio Curricular y en las
Estructuras de los Niveles Medios de los Sistemas Educativos, " Centro de Investigaci6n
y Desarrollo de la Educaci6n, 1993.
A.3 Edwards, V., et al, "Practicas de Trabajo y Socializaci6n en Establecimientos de
Educaci6n Media," Programa Interdisciplinario de Investigaci6n en Educaci6n,
Universidad Cat6lica de Temuco and Universidad de La Serena, 1993.
A.4 Errazuriz, M., et al, "Demandas Sociales a la Educaci6n Media: Vol. I y II," CPU and
Centro de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de la Educaci6n, 1993.
A.5 Gysling, J., Salinas, A., Argandofia, C.L., et al, "Requerimientos para la Formaci6n de
Profesores de Educaci6n Media: Modelos de Formaci6n de Profesores Aplicados en las
Instituciones de Educaci6n Media en Chile," Consorcio Facultad de Educaci6n de la
Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile y otros, 1992
A.6 Himmel, E., "Determinaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Media Chilena," Texto y
Anexos 1, 2 y 3. Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, 1993.
A.7 Jarufe, T., et al, "Indicadores de Cobertura y Calidad de la Educaci6n Media Chilena,"
Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, 1993.
A.8 Marin Conus, R., et al, "Descripci6n y Evaluaci6n del Proceso de Desarrollo
Curricular," Universidad Catolica de la Santisima Concepci6n en Talcahuano, 1992.
A.9 Oteiza, F., Montero, P., et al, "Modelos para la Producci6n y Actualizaci6n
Curricular," Universidad de Santiago de Chile y Asociados, 1993.
A. 10 Pascual, E., et al, "Requerimientos para la Formaci6n de Profesores de Educaci6n
Media: Estudio de la Incidencia de la Formaci6n Inicial en el Desempefio Profesional de
los Profesores de Educacion Media," Universidad Cat6lica de Chile and others, 1992.



- 97 -                                  Annex L
A. I 1 RodrIguez Fuenzalida, E., "Oferta y Demanda de Profesores para la Educaci6n Media,"
1992.
A. 12 Salas, V., et al, "Evaluaci6n Economica de la Educaci6n Media en Chile," Universidad
de Santiago de Chile, Departamento de Economia, 1993.
A.13 Truffello, I., et al, "Practicas de Trabajo y Socializaci6n," Universidad de Chile, 1993.
-. Working Papers
B. 1 Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la Educaci6n Media: 1995-2000:
Vol I, Fundamentos, Estrategia y Componentes.
B.2 Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la Educaci6n Media: 1995-2000:
Vol II, Lfneas de Acci6n.
C. Other Related Documents
C. 1 Artfculo 38 de la Ley de Rentas Municipales de 1980.
C.2  Comisi6n Nacional para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n, 'Informe Para Su
Excelencia El Presidente de la Repiublica, Don Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle," Diciembre 26
de 1994.
C.3  Cox, C., "Las Politicas de los Noventa para el Sistema Escolar," MINEDUC-MECE,
1993.
C.4  Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 1-3.063 de 1980, que Regula el 2o Parrafo del Artfculo
38 del Decreto Ley 3.063 de 1979.
C.5 Decreto Supremo No. 662 (1992) del Ministerio del Interior concerniente a las
Municipalidades.
C.6 Diario Oficial de la Republica de Chile, Ley Num. 19,247 "Introduce Modificaciones a
la Ley Sobre Impuesto a la Renta; Modifica Tasa del Impuesto al Valor Agregado;
Establece Beneficio a las Donaciones con Fines Educacionales y Modifica otros Textos
Legales que Indica," Mi6rcoles 15 de Septiembre de 1993.
C.7  Gobiemo de Chile, "Programa de Gobiemo en Educaci6n y Cultura: Segundo Gobierno
de la Concertaci6n," 1994.



- 98 -
C.8 Ley 18.956 de Febrero 22, 1990 que reestructura al MINEDUC.
C.9 Ley 19.070 de 1991 referente al Estatuto Docente.
C.10 Reglamento de la Ley 19.070 (1991) del Estatuto Docente.
C. 11 Ley OrgWnica Constitucional de Ensefianza (LOCE) 19.054 de 1991.
C. 12 Ministerio de Educaci6n, "Programa MECE-EM: Marco de Orientaci6n (Marzo 1993);
Documento al Presidente de la Repdblica (Abril 1993); y Programa Piloto (Julio 1993).
C. 13 Ministro de Hacienda, Cadena Nacional, Discurso 21 de Mayo (1994): La Oportunida
Hist6rica.
C. 14 Gobierno de Chile, "Prioridades de Politica Educacional de la Concertaci6n
Democratica en Chile," Abril 4, 1994.
C. 15 Riveros, L., "The Economic Return to Schooling in Chile. An Analysis of its Long-
term Fluctuations," Economics of Education Review, Vol.9, No.2, pp.111-121, 1990.
C. 16 Riveros, L., "Economic Return of a Quality-Improving Project in the Secondary
Education in Chile," Department of Economics, University of Chile, 1994.
C. 17 UNESCO, et al, "Informe de la Misi6n Interagencial de Alto Nivel en Apoyo al
MINEDUC-Chile," April 1994.






7?  A  72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 26798
P E R U (-                              2                                                  2  tg*B.4                                                   >~
Pa - ' ,           <                       ,    _                 z Z     REGION                                                                                      So t           - 
0                                  DE                                                                   L LOS
Toltol/~~~~~~~>              5    DE                                         coulo                                                                                        S2 o US
20~~~~~~~Ai                                       VAPRAS f     T g2-   AAACNA             z   !      < si-'''f                                                                                       --
DE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                             LU Af mAP                                                                                                      e 2w OEp O      RGODEMGLASY  G  r  c a 4.
N)  SJ         .0                        CD~ ~~~~~~~~ SEEiNsETO D qo~
~~E   \              o^Y:nitmolons~~~~~~" o,"on         onw A,-                                                        E ON         A    Y      DU      A IO
coVALPARAISO         a:rc
t^sEsE A GJGQ   mPlr yd por of                       Choe  {            </                                      QUALITY IMPCORROVJEMET
REGION                  I,Q           c         Son A,,              /    N0       i /   PUenaREGION RISEN DEt                                                   E6
DE                             /                            Tall                            VA               o                   GENERAL CARLOS                 c
COOUIMBOX-g~~olle                                                                                                                      IBNE DELooie  .C.MPO
2|                                                                                                                 -
TARAPACA IUIE                                                          I.nl                                       .0o                INEDECAO
1           <''7--                                        Capara~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Go.  I'.o 
-340                      ME        ITANA 
(                         GE S  TI~~~~~AGO                                                                                            -
7,21                                                 NCAC ~~~~~~~VIMAIN ROADS
REGION DEL LIBERTADOR          ~             n                                               <    ~RAILROADS
So-OOIIA                                        GENERAL BERNARDO 0O1HIGGINS                      "''               8-CONTOURS 1.000 Mel., hnIr-kI
22'                                                                 22oIa O.o.a'RGIN.SInO&                  CC                                          Capa,a' PrO                         -    IVR
MaIA                                                     REGION C-t -                       17'TalcSALINE LAKES
REGION                                                                    DEano  ALE                                                                                                ICE FIELDS
DE                              El'Lo                                                            Li.)MINE
ANTOFAGASTA-                                                                LCaq                                      36'                                                      + INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
.1.  POETS, THROUGH PUT
~~~~~~    4' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXCEEDING 300,000 TONS
RIEGION DEL                  1>',                                                             IPER YEAR
ANJTOPAGASTA                                                    B  IORIO  r=p                  CIS,.'                                            lI 
CORIEPCIGR             Of                                50.                                            *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
2d                                                                1'                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 REGION CAPITALS
nro asao                                                                  -IBOLd~                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Arauco  (                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
4                                             nj-' ~~~~~raULtoOC Espwnaza                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUADARIES
-  N.     38                    MalLow   V,oI                                                              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
--                        -                ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~REGION  TMC 
DE           CawIl    5X                      Z 
26                                -FS'I                             26'    LA ARAUCANIA          --
ChaRora         Caw'Z/
--            K            ~~            ~           ~~                ~~~~~~LU  VIWr  NZ                                                   AaanyPR)
REGION ~ ~     ~    ~     a                                     EGO
2r    ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    -/DE                                                               FREGION DR MAGALLANES Y                                                        lS~- ~ N
LOS LAOS.r                                         <                 DE LA ANTARTICA CHILENA                 I.o        o--'
Rallasa,  /                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~LIU0lalSA    PIIETO
-  )               ~~~~~~~Th. bo-d--e.olo,                   oo              42'  "                                                  C   H   I L  E                 Alf~~o~ 
I        dano,araton, and an                                                                               SECONDARY EDUCATION
IV ~~~~~~~Z~~h,W.d .. Gn                                                                                               QUALITY IMPROVEMENT56
C0 L  EEJ       'o                          h Wordg- San  ra. S..   3'                                                                                                                                 50   1~   1~500n
REGI  (Z7                               f-anyI00",''~ --. aglPRLeTO                                                                                 PROJECT
DEON                                          "Y ~ ooarnco,                                                                                                                                               KItOMETERS
CODUIMBO                                       boO,n
MARCH 1993












