Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3883 - CH
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 31, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3883 - CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have  arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement.".
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCC" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Chile);
 
(b)
"Decree No.1-3.063" means Decreto con fuerza de ley (with force of law) 
No.1-3.063 dated June 2, 1980, published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on 
June 13, 1980, which regulates the transfer of public educational services to the 
Municipalities, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
"Decree No.5" means Decreto con fuerza de ley (with force of law) No. 5 
dated August 20, 1992, published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on March 9, 
1993, which regulates the monetary assistance provided by the Borrower to MS-Schools 
and PSP-Schools, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(d)
"Eligible MS-School" means a school within the jurisdiction of a 
Participating Municipality which meets the criteria (described in the Operational 
Manual) to participate with such municipality in the carrying out of an Eligible 
Subproject;
(e)
"Eligible PSP-School" means a school owned by a Participating Owner which 
meets the criteria (described in the Operational Manual) to participate with such 
owner in the carrying out of an Eligible Subproject;
(f)
"Eligible Subproject" means a specific project (to be financed under a 
Grant) which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, 
consisting, inter alia, of acquisition and utilization of goods for, and provision of 
technical assistance to, an Eligible-MS School or an Eligible
PSP-School, in order to improve the quality of the secondary education in the 
Borrower's territory;
(g)
"Grant" means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the 
Borrower, through MINEDUC, to a Participating Municipality or a Participating Owner 
for the financing of an Eligible Subproject;
(h)
"Implementation Letter" means a letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank: (i) indicating the matters to be discussed during the mid-term 
review referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) listing the positions 
of the individual consultants to be employed for the
PCU under the Project which will be subject to the Bank's right of prior review;
(i)
"Law No.18.175" means Ley No. 18.175 of the Borrower, published in the 
official gazette (Diario Oficial) on March 20, 1993, which regulates the activities of 
the Regional Governments, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(j)
"Law No.18.695" means Ley No. 18.695 of the Borrower dated March 29, 
1988, published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on March 31, 1988, which 
provides for the organization of Municipalities, and such term includes Supreme Decree 
No. 662 (Decreto Supremo No.662) dated June 16, 1992, published in the official 
gazette (Diario Oficial) on August 27, 1992, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(k)
"Law No. 18.956" means Ley No. 18.956 of the Borrower dated February 22, 
1990, published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on March 8, 1990, which 
established the structure of MINEDUC, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(l)
"Law No. 18.962" means Ley No.18.962 of the Borrower dated March 7, 1990, 
published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on March 10, 1990, which provides 
Page  3
for the organization of the Borrower's education sector, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Law No. 19.247" means Ley No. 19.247 of the Borrower dated September 9, 
1993, published in the oficial gazette (Diario Oficial) on September 15, 1993, which 
regulates, inter alia, the grants to be provided by the private sector to schools 
within the Borrower's territory, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(n)
"MINEDUC" means the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educacion) of 
the Borrower;
(o)
"MS-School" means a municipal secondary school within the jurisdiction of 
a Municipality;
(p)
"Municipality" means a legal entity with juridical personality governed 
by Law No. 18.695;
(q)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which 
sets forth, inter alia: (i) the activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) 
the administration procedures to be followed under the Project; (iii) the eligibility 
criteria for Eligible Subprojects and the operational procedures for the carrying out 
of Eligible Subprojects; and (iv) the impact indicators and physical and 
financial targets to be followed and achieved, as the case may be, by the Borrower, 
through MINEDUC, the Participating Municipalities, the Participating Owners and the 
Participating Regional Governments in the carrying out of their respective Parts of 
the Project;
(r)
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(s)
"Participating Municipality" means any Municipality or entity, acceptable 
to the Bank, which will, inter alia, participate with an Eligible MS-School in the 
carrying out of an Eligible Subproject;
(t)
"Participating Owner" means the owner of a PSP-School, acceptable to the 
Bank, which will participate with an Eligible PSP-School in the carrying out of an 
Eligible Subproject;
(u)
"Participating Regional Government" means a Gobierno Regional within the 
Borrower's territory, and such term includes any other entity acceptable to the Bank;
(v)
"PCU" means the unit mentioned in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
 
(w)
"PSP-School" means a private school which is eligible to receive monetary 
assistance from the Borrower to carry out its functions;
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(y)
"T-VOC Secondary School" means a MS-School or a PSP-School which provides 
technical-vocational teaching; and
(z)
"TSN" means the technical support network comprised, inter alia, of: 
universities, professional institutes, private sector entities, local and 
international experts and non-governmental organizations which will provide technical 
assistance to MS-Schools and PSP-Schools in the areas of in-service teacher training, 
design of learning and teaching materials and curriculum matters.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty five million Dollars 
($35,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
Page  4
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Participating Municipality or a
Participating Owner under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for an Eligible Subproject (under Part A.12 of the Project) in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts A.1, A.18 and A.22 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BCC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of 
Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  5
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) through 
MINEDUC, shall carry out Parts A.1 through A.11, A.13 through A.19, A.20 (b), A.21, 
A.22 and B of the Project; (ii) shall cause the Participating Municipalities and 
Participating Owners, through Participation Agreements, to carry out Part A.12 of the 
Project (as provided in paragraph (b) herein); and (iii) shall cause the Participating 
Regional Governments, through arrangements between the Borrower, through MINEDUC, and 
each Participating
Regional Government, to carry out Part A.20 (a) of the Project, all in accordance with 
the Operational Manual and with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, technical, administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For purposes of the carrying out of each Eligible Subproject under Part 
A.12 of the Project, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall make the corresponding funds 
available, on a grant basis, to the respective Participating Municipality or 
Participating Owner under an agreement (the  Participation Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through MINEDUC, and each Participating Municipality or 
each Participating Owner, as the case may be, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank (including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement).
(c)
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall exercise its rights under the 
Participation Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall not assign, amend, suspend, 
terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, 
shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower, through MINEDUC, and the Bank, a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, with respect to the lessons learned during Project 
implementation;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  6
Borrower on the recommendations of such report; and
(c)
thereafter, through MINEDUC, implement or cause to be implemented, a plan 
prepared on the basis of such recommendations, the Bank's comments thereon, if any, 
and the Borrower's educational policies, aimed at continuing to improve the quality, 
equity and efficiency of the Borrower's secondary
education.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish within MINEDUC, and thereafter 
operate and maintain a Project coordination unit (the PCU) during Project 
implementation with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility of assisting MINEDUC in: (i) the monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the preparation of the progress reports referred 
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and (iii) the selection of consultants to be
employed under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall ensure that the PCU is at all times 
headed by an experienced professional and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall not later than June 30 of 
each year until the completion of the Project, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank an annual report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request with respect to the progress in the 
implementation of the Project during the year prior to the date of presentation of the 
report for the year in question.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall review jointly with the Bank 
in the thirtieth month after the Effective Date, the progress made by the Borrower, 
through MINEDUC, the Participating Municipalities, the Participating Owners and the 
Participating Regional Governments in: (a) carrying out the Project in accordance with 
the indicators and targets set forth in the Operational Manual; and (b) achieving the 
objectives of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on discussing the 
annual reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement and the matters described 
in annex A of the Implementation Letter. As part of such review the Bank may require 
that the Borrower, through MINEDUC, prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to make adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, 
shall furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than thirty days after the 
conclusion of such review and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, 
such action plan in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall: (i) maintain records and 
separate accounts with respect to the Parts of the Project to be carried out by the 
Borrower, through MINEDUC; and (ii) cause to be maintained (through the Participation 
Agreements and the arrangements mentioned in
Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement) records and separate accounts with respect 
to Parts A.12 and A.20 (a) of the Project to be carried out by the Participating 
Municipalities, the Participating Owners and the Participating Regional Governments, 
all adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
MINEDUC, the Participating Municipalities, the Participating Owners and the 
Participating Regional Governments responsible for carrying out the respective Parts 
of the Project under their responsibility.
(b)
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
Page  7
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
MINEDUC, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Law No. 18.956 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through MINEDUC, to 
carry out the corresponding Parts of the Project under its
responsibility;
(b)
Law No. 18.962 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through MINEDUC, to 
carry out the corresponding Parts of the Project under its
responsibility;
(c)
Law No. 18.695 or any provision thereof or Decree No. 1-3.063 or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or 
not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability 
of the Participating Municipalities to carry out Part
A.12 of the Project;
(d)
Law No. 18.175 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Participating Regional 
Governments to carry out Part A.20 (a) of the Project; and
(e)
Decree No.5 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the 
Page  8
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Participating Municipalities and Participating 
Owners to carry out Part A.12 of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual has been duly approved by the Borrower, 
through MINEDUC;
(b)
that the PCU: (i) has been duly established; (ii) has been authorized to 
operate under the Project; and (iii) has employed staff, as provided in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement;
(c)
that standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
procurement of computer and peripheral equipment and software under Parts A and C.1 of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, have been adopted by the Borrower; and
(d)
that the Borrower has submitted to its Congress, for approval, its 1996 
budget for secondary education (which shall include the counterpart funds required to 
carry out the Project during such calendar year.
Section 6.02. The date January 29, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120-Piso No. 12
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  9
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Sergio Molina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of
 the Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By  /s/ Sergio Molina
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of
  the Controller General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Sergio Molina
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                  Dollar               to be
      Category                  Equivalent)          Financed
(1) Computer and                15,000,000        100% of foreign
    peripheral equipment                          expenditures and
    and software under Parts                      80% of local
    A.1, A.18 and A.22                            expenditures
    of the Project
(2) Grants                      14,000,000        100% of
Page  10
    under Part                                    amounts
    A.12 of the                                   disbursed
    Project
(3) Consultants' services       2,000,000         90%
    for the PCU
(4) Unallocated                 4,000,000
                               __________
        TOTAL                  35,000,000
                               ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made under a Grant (under Part A.12 of the Project) unless 
the corresponding Participation Agreement shall have been entered into between the 
parties thereto pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) all contracts for goods to be 
awarded under Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement other than the first 
contract to be awarded each year during Project
implementation under Part C.1 of such Section; and (b) all contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
other than those contracts for the employment of individuals listed in annex B of the 
Implementation Letter, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the internal and external 
efficiency, quality and equity of the educational services provided by the MS-Schools 
and PSP-Schools; and (b) to strengthen the managerial capacity in the Borrower's 
secondary education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of the internal and external efficiency, quality and equity 
of the educational services provided by MS-Schools and PSP-Schools
1.
Establishment and operation of a curriculum planning and evaluation unit, 
including the provision of technical assistance to such unit in support of its 
functions.
2.
Redesign of the current subject-based core curriculum for secondary education in 
the Borrower's territory.
3.
Design of teaching and learning prototype materials based, inter alia, on the 
redesigned curriculum referred to in Part A.2 above, including the production and 
distribution of such materials to interested MS-Schools and PSP-Schools.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to all MS-Schools and PSP-Schools which 
request MINEDUC or TSN to assist such schools, inter alia, in: (a) the redefinition of 
Page  11
their complementary curriculum and syllabus; (b) the provision of in-service teacher 
training referred to in Parts A.9, A.11 and A.19 below; and (c) the carrying out of 
internal and external evaluation of students referred to in Parts A.6 and A.8 below. 
5.
Carrying out of activities to inform interested schools and the public on 
educational innovations by MS-Schools and PSP-Schools.
6.
Carrying out of: (a) external evaluations of students attending the twelfth 
grade in secondary schools within the Borrower's territory; (b) a general skill 
certification of students attending the tenth grade in secondary schools within the 
Borrower's territory; and (c) a specific skill certification of students attending the 
twelfth grade in T-VOC Secondary Schools.
7.
Production of student certification sets and student certification manuals, 
including the distribution of such sets and manuals to T-VOC Secondary Schools.
8.
Provision of in-service training to teachers of MS-Schools and PSP-Schools in 
order to enable such teachers to carry out internal evaluations of the students 
attending such schools.
9.
Design of extra-curricular activities for at-risk students (with respect to 
social and educational matters) of all MS-Schools and PSP-Schools, including the 
acquisition and utilization of materials and equipment and the provision of training 
to, and salaries for, the teachers that will monitor the implementation of such 
activities.
10.
Strengthening the relationship between the private sector and T-VOC Secondary 
Schools through: (a) the provision of in-service training scholarships to teachers of 
such schools; (b) the design of mechanisms to foster the participation of the private 
sector in the design of a core curriculum and skill certification of students 
attending such schools; and (c) the carrying out of a campaign to inform the private 
sector concerning the benefits provided by Law No. 19.247.
11.
Provision of in-service training to teachers, school principals and supervisors 
of MS-Schools and PSP-Schools in order to enable them to: (a) change the current 
one-dimensional teaching format based on rote learning and dictation to more 
interactive methods; (b) use the redesigned curriculum and materials referred to in 
Parts A.2 and A.3 above, respectively; (c) design and participate in the carrying out 
of Eligible Subprojects; and (d) participate in the activities referred to in A.9 
above.
12.
Carrying out of about 2000 Eligible Subprojects for the benefit of Eligible 
MS-Schools and Eligible PSP-Schools.
13.
(a) Production and distribution of training materials to Eligible MS-Schools and 
Eligible PSP-Schools for the design and carrying out of Eligible Subprojects; and (b) 
design and distribution of guidelines to evaluate Eligible Subprojects. 
14.
Carrying out of a campaign to: (a) inform the public with respect to 
successfully implemented Eligible Subprojects; and (b) foster the exchange of 
successful experiences among school principals, supervisors, teachers, parents and 
students with respect to the Eligible Subprojects mentioned in (a) herein.
15.
Carrying out of a study to evaluate the implementation of Eligible Subprojects 
and their impact on the quality of secondary education in the Borrower's territory.
16.
Acquisition and distribution of about 1,500,000 sets of textbooks (consisting, 
inter alia, of: language, math, natural and social sciences and technology subjects) 
to MS-Schools and PSP-Schools (for the benefit of students attending the ninth through 
twelfth grades).
17.
Acquisition and distribution of about 2,800,000 books for libraries within 
MS-Schools and PSP-Schools.
18.
Acquisition and distribution of: (a) teaching materials; and (b) computer and 
peripheral equipment and software application, for MS-Schools and PSP-Schools.
Page  12
19.
Provision of in-service training to teachers of MS-Schools and PSP-Schools in: 
(a) the selection, use and evaluation of the goods mentioned in Parts A.16 through 
A.18 above; and (b) the management of the libraries referred to in Part A.17 above. 
20.
(a) Construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of MS-Schools' 
facilities; and (b) acquisition and utilization of goods and furniture required for 
the MS-Schools' facilities mentioned in (a) herein and PSP-Schools' facilities.
21.
(a) Acquisition and distribution of identity symbols to MS-Schools and 
PSP-Schools; and (b) carrying out of a program of actions within the schools mentioned 
in (a) herein, in order to improve the public image of such schools' buildings.
22.
Provision of technical assistance to the PCU in order to carry out its 
functions, including the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Provision of training to MS-Schools and PSP-Schools' principals and heads of 
disciplinary areas in order to: (a) improve their capacity to manage such schools in a 
decentralized framework; and (b) provide the necessary leadership to promote the 
improvement of curricular, pedagogical and evaluation practices within such schools.
2.
(a) Production and distribution of about 8500 TSN's directories to MS-Schools, 
PSP-Schools and Municipalities in order to inform such entities of the availability of 
local and international technical assistance to be provided under the Project; and (b) 
design and implementation of administrative and financial mechanisms to enable 
MS-Schools and PSP-Schools to use the services provided by TSN.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to MINEDUC and the Municipalities to improve 
their institutional capacity in dealing with secondary education, including the 
acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to MINEDUC to strengthen its analytical 
capacity in the areas of analysis of benefits and costs of alternative education 
policies (including those policies related to tertiary education).
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2001
1,750,000
through   July 15, 2010
Page  13
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, computer and peripheral equipment and 
software shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional 
procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of 
Page  14
the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) 
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of computer and peripheral equipment and software in 
accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have 
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard 
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for computer and peripheral equipment and 
software shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$350,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Computer and peripheral equipment and software estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $100,000 but lessthan $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Computer and peripheral equipment and software estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of at least three suppliers 
(local, or foreign from at least three different countries) eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
Goods (other than the goods referred to in Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section) to 
be financed out of the proceeds of a Grant (under Part A.12 of the Project) shall be 
procured: (a) up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $16,100,000, under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank; or (b) up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,000,000, 
through direct contracting in the cases set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded under Part A of this 
Section; and (ii) the first contract to be awarded each year during Project 
implementation under Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank 
Page  15
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower, through MINEDUC, the Participating 
Municipalities and the Participating Owners in carrying out Parts A.22 and A.12 of the 
Project, respectively, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall employ, and cause the 
Participating Municipalities and Participating Owners to
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ and cause the 
Participating Municipalities and Participating Owners to employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use and 
cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, except for those contracts for the employment 
of the individuals listed in annex B of the Implementation Letter. However, this 
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts; (b) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; 
and (c) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.1, A.12, A.18 and A.22 of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals [from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions] shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  16
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  17
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures and Terms and Conditions for Grants (Eligible
Subprojects)
1.
Each Grant will finance up to 80% of the cost of each Eligible Subproject.
 
2.
Each Grant shall be made pursuant to a Participation Agreement, whereby the 
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the Participating Municipality or the Participating Owner to 
carry out and operate the respective Eligible Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound educational, technical, administrative, 
financial and environmental standards and to maintain adequate
records and separate accounts in order to enable the Borrower, through MINEDUC, to 
comply with its obligation under Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the respective Eligible Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods included in the Eligible Subproject, and any relevant 
records and documents; and
(d)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Municipality or the 
Participating Owner to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such municipality 
or owner to comply with its obligations under the Participation Agreement.
