Page  1
January 24, 1996
Mr. Eduardo Aninat Ureta
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120 - Piso No. 12
Santiago, Chile
Re:  Loan No. 3883-CH
(Secondary Education Quality Improvement
Project) Amendment
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement, dated October 31, 1995, between the Republic of 
Chile (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) for the above-captioned Project, and to the request, in a letter dated 
December 13, 1995 from the Budget Director of the Ministry of Finance, for a 
modification of the terms of the loan extended pursuant to such Loan Agreement.
We agree to such request and, therefore, propose to amend the Loan Agreement as 
follows:
1.
Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1.01. The 'General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single 
Currency Loans' of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the  
General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement."
 
2.
Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-five million Dollars ($35,000,000)."
3.
Section 2.05 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the LIBOR Base 
Rate plus the LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
'Interest Period' means the initial period from and 
including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and 
after the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
'Interest Payment Date' means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this 
Agreement.
 
(iii)
'LIBOR Base Rate' means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of 
such Interest Period 
(or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value 
the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
'LIBOR Total Spread' means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for 
such Interest Period, 
Page  2
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, 
or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan."
4.
In Schedule 1, the heading of the second column of the table in paragraph 1 
thereof, is amended to read:
"Amount of the Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollars)".
5.
In Schedule 3, the footnote is amended to read as follows:
 
"*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions."
6.
In Schedule 5, subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1 thereof is amended to read as 
follows:
"(c) the term 'Authorized Allocation' means the amount of $2,200,000 to 
be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to 
the amount of $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed $6,000,000."
 
Except as expressly modified by the provisions of this letter, all terms and 
conditions of the Loan Agreement remain unchanged. The foregoing amendments shall 
enter into effect on the date upon which
the Bank dispatches to the Borrower the notice referred to in Section 12.03 (a) of the 
General Conditions referred to in paragraph 1 of this letter.
Please confirm, on behalf of the Borrower, your agreement to the foregoing by 
signing and dating the two counterparts of this letter, and return one to us.
In view of his interest in the foregoing, we are sending a copy of this letter 
to the Minister of Education.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Page  3
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Jose Pablo Arellano Marin
Authorized Representative
Date:
6 de Febrero de 1996
