                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 32264

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (TF-23534 TF-26209 TF-28376 TF-51103)

                                           ON A

                              PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION

                                             TO

                                       TIMOR-LESTE

                                          FOR THE

                             COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND

                               LOCAL GOVERNANCE PROJECT




                                         May 9, 2005




Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = US DOLLARS
                                              LC = US$ 1
                                           US$ 1 = LC

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                         July 1  June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
ADRA     Adventist Development and Relief Agency
BELE     Building Empowerment Leadership and Engagement
BNU      Banco Nacional Utramarino
CAPS     Country Assistance for Population Stabilization
CDWG     Community Development Working Group
CEP      Community Empowerment Project
CFO      Chief Financial Officer
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CIVPOL            Civilian Police
CNRT     National Council of Timorese Resistance
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CRC      Community Radio Center
DPA      District Project Accountants
DTF      District Technical Facilitators
EMP      Environment Management Plan
ETCAS    East Timor Community Assistance Scheme
ETPA     East Timor Public Administration
ETTA     East Timorese Transitional Administration
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IOM      International Organization of Migration
JAM      Joint Assessment Mission
NC       National Council
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
OCHA     Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
OTI      Office of Transition Initiatives
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPM      Public Procurement Manual
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
QIPS     Quick Impact Projects
SW       Small Works
TA       Technical Assistance
TEP      Transitional Employment Projectg

TFET     Trust Fund for East Timor
UNESCO   United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNOPS    United Nations Office for Project Services
UNTAET   United Nations Transitional Administration for East Timor
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VOC      Vehicle Operating Costs




                               Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                             Country Director       Xian Zhu
                              Sector Manager        Maria Teresa Serra
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Gillian Brown

                                       TIMOR-LESTE
                   East Timor Community and Local Governance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            30
6. Sustainability                                                                33
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 35
8. Lessons Learned                                                               39
9. Partner Comments                                                              44
10. Additional Information                                                       45
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             46
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             54
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             55
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             56
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                57
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            58

Project ID: P069762                                                  Project Name: East Timor Community and Local
                                                                     Governance Project
Team Leader: Scott E. Guggenheim                                     TL Unit: EASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 6, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: East Timor Community and Local Governance                L/C/TF Number: TF-23534; TF-26209;
                            Project                                                                  TF-28376; TF-51103
   Country/Department: TIMOR-LESTE                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General information and communications sector (22%); General
                            education sector (22%); Health (22%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (22%); Other social services (12%)
                  Theme: Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P); Poverty
                            strategy, analysis and monitoring (S); Rural policies and institutions
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/06/1999                                     Effective: 12/06/1999                12/06/1999
     Appraisal: 12/14/1999                                         MTR: 12/13/1999                  01/26/2000
      Approval: 02/21/2000                                      Closing: 02/03/2000                 02/21/2000



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Timor Leste/UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION FOR E.
                                           TIMOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Xian Zhu                                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:                 Maria Teresa Serra                             Zafer Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR:             Jacqueline Pomeroy                             Gillian Brown
ICR Primary Author:             Bruce M. Harris


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Introduction

Following the vote for Independence in August of 1999 Timor-Leste experienced a wave of violence which
resulted in widespread destruction of infrastructure and displacement of the population. The country faced
a near-total breakdown in commercial activities, communications, transport and banking and other systems.
In addition, the organizational and institutional structures for decision-making and delivery of public goods
and services virtually disappeared. In this context, the only coherent organizational structure was that of
the resistance movement (the CNRT) which, supported in general by traditional leaders, served to some
extent as a de facto government and administrative structure. In October, 1999, the administration of
Timor-Leste was assumed by the United Nations Transitional Authority for East Timor (UNTAET) under
Security Council Resolution 1272 (S/RES/1272).

During the violence, transportation, supplies and commercial warehouses were looted and destroyed across
the country, and the commercial distribution system was effectively demolished. The economy was hit by a
dramatic supply shock, and virtually all supplies had to be imported. Banks were badly hit, and there was
no payment system in operation to enable public or private entities to pay salaries or suppliers for goods
and services. There was a dramatic shortage of skilled personnel for the secondary and tertiary sectors
since most of those positions had been filled by Indonesians, who left the country. Of a pre-crisis
population of about 850,000, about 100,000-150,000 were refugees at the end of 1999. The social sectors
were equally hard hit: the health system lost all fixed equipment and consumables, and about 80% of all
physicians; the education sector lost all textbooks and materials and about 75% of all secondary teachers.

As importantly, the institutional framework for governance and public decision-making also disappeared
and the civil service effectively collapsed (which, nonetheless, provided an opportunity for reform of a
system which had been characterized by overstaffing, multiple layers of bureaucracy, duplication of
functions between the center and periphery, a top down organizational culture with low participation levels
and very low pay levels, encouraging corruption and illegal fringe benefits).

Timor-Leste was already poor by regional standards and had some of the lowest development scores in the
region. A poverty assessment from 2001 estimated that the average Timorese had a life expectancy of
between 50 ­ 58, infant mortality was at 78 ­ 149 per thousand, and 46% of the population was living
below the national poverty line of USD 55 per month. Agricultural output per worker was one of the
lowest in the region, literacy rates were estimated at 50%, there was a shortage of skilled labour and access
to basic services was low in terms of both budget and distance.

Donor support for Timor-Leste was coordinated through the United Nations Transitional Administration in
East Timor (UNTAET) which was established by Security Council Resolution 1272 on October 25, 1999.
A World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission visited Timor-Leste from October to November, 1999. The
key findings of the JAM were that the considerable post-ballot violence had left Timor-Leste with:
     i. More than 75% of the population displaced;
    ii. Virtually the entire pre-independence governance structure in a shambles, including the departure
         of most senior and middle level civil servants;
   iii. All technical sectors inoperative, with the departure of most technical experts;
    iv. An estimated 75% of administrative buildings and 80% of social infrastructure (schools and



                                                      - 2 -

         clinics) completely or partially destroyed, especially in urban areas, but as well in much of the
         hinterland; and
     v. All equipment and materials in administrative buildings destroyed or looted.

The Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project

The Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project was a direct response to the findings of the
Joint Assessment Mission (JAM). The project was designed and prepared on an extremely fast track.
Time between concept and appraisal was less than two months, from appraisal to board less than a month
and from board to effectiveness one month. The project was a very fast, and in many respects efficient,
reaction to an emergency situation.

There are several factors which made the project both possible and problematic and, in some senses,
contentious. At base, the project was made possible because of strong support by the CNRT, at a time
when there was no coherent national political structure other than the CNRT. This was of considerable
benefit because it meant strong high level support which translated into rapid preparation and
implementation. However, it also contained the seeds of future problems, which were manifest in several
arenas.

There was lukewarm support at best, and resistance at worst, to the project by UNTAET. UN counterpart
officials (though not the UNTAET administrator) preferred an option where all funds would only flow
through UN-appointed staff. A more serious objection came from officials who saw CNRT as a threat to
the UN mandate and, in the case of some, to the program of establishing multi-party democracy, and thus
wanted to avoid any CNRT involvement in how development projects were designed or managed. However,
a significant number of UNTAET officials (particularly mid-level officials) argued for CEP, and in fact the
main counterpart, who was in charge of UNTAET's district development program, eventually resigned
from UNTAET and produced a highly critical article on the internal politics that divided the UN
administration's approach to CEP.

This ambivalence and resistance characterized relations between the project and UNTAET through most of
the life of CEP I, II and III. CNRT did not directly manipulate CEP at any point in its life cycle, and in
fact one of the demands of the CNRT was that traditional leaders and CNRT leaders be excluded from
council positions for the first three years, by which time the emergent GOTL would be free to decide on the
structure of leadership without being presented with a fait accompli created by its own membership.
Nonetheless, the relations between the project and UNTAET were never smooth and presented challenges
at every step of the way. In retrospect there were also a number of Bank failings in this regard that will be
discussed in this ICR.

Nonetheless, CEP should be seen as overall a conditional success and, in some regards as a considerable
success. The project was a very rapid response to a critical post-conflict situation and delivered substantial
resources to the ground where they were desperately needed. It mobilized large numbers of ordinary
citizens across the country and motivated them to become actively engaged in reconstructing infrastructure
and services in their country, with incalculable benefits not only with respect to infrastructure and services,
but also in terms of sense of community and social cohesion. The fact that the project has been less
successful in promoting sustainable and institutionalized relations between the village and formal
governmental structures should not obscure the important outcomes the project has achieved. But the
failure to create a sustainable institutional base for community development is a significant shortcoming in
the project.




                                                       - 3 -

Why did this happen? The project team identifies four sets of reasons. The first and most important of these
is that the overall governance regime of East Timor changed dramatically between the time that CEP was
negotiated and the time that the project was completed. CEP was closely associated with the more populist
reform faction of Xanana Gusmao, but over time this group lost out to the more orthodox, centralizing
wing of the Fretilin diaspora. JAM initial plans for a highly participatory, decentralized government did not
materialize. The UN's transitional program did not succeed in creating a strong decentralized public
administration, and, after a strong beginning, the ADB program intended to complement CEP by
strengthening district government fizzled out from lack of central government interest. As a result, CEP's
overall operating environment did not look favorably on program's whose starting principle consisted of
delegating resources and authority all the way to the bottom.

Second, while the overall environment that emerged over time was not conducive to the kind of
decentralized structure that CEP represented (and which had been proposed through the Joint Assessment
Mission and repeatedly requested by Xanana), the Bank team did not succeed in implementing the kinds of
adaptations that would have been necessary to work within the environment that emerged. Chief among
these was a failure to find a successful form of sustained interaction with district government, both during
the UNTAET period and during the transitional and independence periods that followed.

Finally, a number of failures within the Bank's management of the project contributed to a loss of
government ownership, and also made CEP a lightning rod for reaction against the Bank as a whole. As the
EU evaluation of the Bank's East Timor program pointed out, it was more than a little surprising that after
the long negotiation to get UNTAET to formally recognize village development councils, the very first
project to bypass them and thereby show their irrelevance was a project funded by the very same World
Bank. Another example is the Bank team's commitment to ensuring the technical success of the project
when political intervention by officials within the host ministry undermined the performance of the
consultants; while the intervention may have been necessary from a technical standpoint, the political
outcome was that the project owner could argue that it had become a World Bank rather than a government
project. It is at least arguable in retrospect that a better strategy would have been to let the project
implementation team collapse and then jointly agree with government on a corrective action (or
termination) program.

Original Objective

The CEP has been funded through three separate Trust Fund agreements, CEP I (TF023534),
CEP II (TF028376) and CEP III (TF051103). Project preparation was also supported by a
Japanese PHRD grant (TF026209). The original development objective of CEP I was "to strengthen
local level social capital to build institutions that reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth".
The project was based on the principle that projects will be produced by communities for community
activities. The heart of the CEP approach revolves around the formation of democratically elected councils
at village and sub-district levels and the provision of capacity-building and cycles of community block
grants for those councils to plan and implement participatory community development projects. The more
specific operational objectives were to reduce poverty by strengthening the institutional capacity of
sub-districts and villages to:
    l Build and reconstruct their basic economic infrastructure (such as farm-to-market roads, small
         bridges, irrigation and drainage systems, clean water, and so on, as determined by the community
         itself).
    l Support productive local economic activities, and
    l Support cultural heritage and social reconciliation.




                                                        - 4 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives as stated in the CEP I PAD were revised in the TFET Grant Agreement for CEP II to be:
   l Strengthening the capacity of sub-districts and villages to plan and implement their development
         decisions,
   l Building and reconstructing basic economic infrastructure,
   l Supporting productive economic enterprises,
   l Supporting cultural heritage and social reconciliation, and
   l Supporting community radio development


Over the course of the three main agreements (CEP I, II and III) the overall objective remained "To
strengthen local level social capital to build institutions that reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns
of growth." However, the PAD for CEP II introduced more detail with respect to the following:
   l pilot a number of carefully designed mechanisms for providing assistance to disadvantaged groups
         (widows, orphans, disabled people, etc.) at the community level
   l provide assistance for the development of district level capacities, specifically in planning
         development activities
   l support the establishment of the Community Radio Center (CRC) and community radios (CRs) in
         selected districts.

The PAD for CEP III did not alter or amplify the objectives, but did expand coverage to two districts in
Dili that had not been covered originally, effectively making the program fully national in scope.

Overall CEP has performed strongly with respect to meeting the target indicators. Partly this is a result of
the expansion of the project to all districts of the country. This was done in a very difficult environment,
and should be seen against the backdrop of the need to make a choice between the rapid delivery of needed
services in a chaotic post-conflict situation and the need to establish sustainable mechanisms for longer
term community development by building local capacity with institutionalized links to formal governmental
structures.

3.3 Original Components:

CEP consisted of three components:

   l Component A: Community Sub-Grants and Credits
   l Component B: Cultural Heritage and Social Reconciliation
   l Component C: Civil Society Support (CEP I)
   l Component C: Community Radio Development (CEP II and III)


This review will discuss the performance of CEP as measured against the objectives and outputs listed in
the Trust Fund Grant Agreements. The components remained essentially unchanged, although Civil
Society Support in CEP I was dropped to add Community Radio Development in CEP II and III.. Even
though the original overall objective ("to strengthen local level social capital to build institutions that
reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth") is not explicitly noted in the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement, it will be discussed in this report as well

3.3.1 Component A: Community Grants and Credits ($19.5m)




                                                        - 5 -

Component A consisted of seven sub-components
    1. Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the provision of Sub-grants
         to the relevant Conselho do Suco.
    2. Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages through the provision of Credits
         to Borrowers.
    3. Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and education and health programmes in
         villages through the provision of Sub-grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups in such villages.
    4. Strengthening of Coselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the provision of technical
         assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and related materials.
    5. Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco, Conselho do Posto and
         local leaders.
    6. Provision of financial advisors to district administration.
    7. Monitoring of the Project's impact on poverty in the Project Sub-Districts, including provision of
         related technical assistance.

3.3.1.1 Sub-Component 1: Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the
provision of Sub-grants to the relevant village development council (Conselho do Suco). The main
purpose of the community grants was to support development proposals produced by villagers for the
public good of their communities. Block grants were to be given to each sub-district in Timor-Leste four
times during the life of the project against an "open menu". The project provided district level technical
specialists and local level facilitators to provide villagers with information needed to make informed,
responsible proposals and decisions. The facilitators in particular were to guide villagers in developing
proposals and in working together to achieve community consensus on the priorities they wished to address.


Sub-projects at the community level funded through the community grants were to be chosen through
democratic procedures using village development councils (VDCs--Conselho do Sucos). The absence of
district and village level structures as a result of the conflict and disruption meant that these committees
had to be constructed almost from scratch. The first activity of the CEP was, therefore, to work with
villagers to elect an interim development council made up of equal numbers of men and women. Each
village group was to then pick a man and a woman from the village council to participate in a sub-district
level council (Conselho do Posto) that represented all of the villages within the sub-district. Sub-district
councils then appointed an independent group consisting of an executive officer, a treasurer, and a
secretary to manage sub-district affairs, maintain sub-district funds, and keep records. To ensure greater
independence and objectivity, these would remain outside of the council structure. In general, this process
seems to have worked exceptionally well, given the difficult circumstances under which implementation
occurred.

The village development councils were to have five key functions:
    l Preparing and executing village development plans that address local needs in agriculture,
         healthcare, education, communications, income generating projects and other projects as
         determined by the community
    l Producing village codes of conduct and resolving disputes
    l Managing village funds
    l Relaying the priority development needs that cannot be met through local efforts to sub-districts,
         and
    l Strengthening participation and democratic practices.


There were to be four community grant cycles. To access the first community grant each village


                                                        - 6 -

development council worked with villages (assisted by the facilitators) to identify priority needs to be
drawn up into a small proposal. Once facilitators verified formation of the village councils and that basic
rules about popular participation in their selection were followed, the project would release a set amount to
each sub-district. These funds would then be divided equally among each member village in a one-time
grant to launch the reconstruction process. The use of this initial grant funding was (with certain limited
exceptions) open, and could, e.g., be disbursed against items available in local markets. A limited shipping
list was also to be presented to villages by facilitators from which they could choose priority items, since
many markets had few or very limited supplies. The procurement and delivery of these items was to be
facilitated by a procurement agent under an interim contract financed by the project.

Subsequent community grant cycles (2nd, 3rd and 4th cycles) would be allocated to villages within the
sub-districts through a competitive process, and there would be no standard net allocation per village. All
information about how the money was used was to be posted publicly.

Verification of the village proposals for a community grant is a three stage process, including a sub-district
review by a team appointed by the sub-district council, a technical review made by the district technical
specialist (including site visits) and a public evaluation by the sub-district council (with participation of all
subproject proponents and other community members) to evaluate proposals on the basis of their ability to
reach the poor, reflection of local contributions in cash or kind and the group opinion of their technical
soundness and relative merits. Once the council decided on which proposals merit funding a final meeting
was held to explain the results of the discussion and to begin preparation for implementation.

Once the community grants were awarded to a proposal, it became a sub-project and was managed by its
proponent group with support from the Posto Facilitator and CEP technical specialists. There is no limit to
the number of proposals that could be submitted by a village, but if there were two or more at least one had
to come from a women's group.

3.3.1.2 Sub-Component 2: Income Generating Investments through Provision of Credits to
Borrowers. This sub-component was intended to be a revolving fund through which credits were provided
on an 18-month repayment basis with the group requesting the funds jointly responsible for the credit
(although they may, in fact, have divided the funds into individual enterprises). The annual interest rate
was 10%. The outputs expected of CEP credits were loans and the generation of productive economic
activities. Implicit in this was the need to recapitalize microenterprises, in parallel with the labour-intensive
reconstruction of community infrastructure under the subgrant programme. It is important to recognise that
this sub-component was never intended to establish a micro-finance system, and the PAD never mentions
that the project is establishing a "micro-finance system". Rather, it was a response to an immediate crisis
situation including drought followed by extensive flooding which posed a very real threat of famine as food
stocks were virtually nonexistent, transportation was crippled and food shipments were unavailable for
most of the country outside of the capital. The CNRT insisted this component be included, and the Bank,
though ambivalent about its inclusion, did so only under the understanding that the revolving credit scheme
would be a transitional phase to the larger ADB microfinance activity then being organized. This ADB
program, however, essentially never occurred during the lifetime of CEP, and there was considerable
pressure to continue the program even in the absence of that transition.

In essence, the sub-component was designed to put resources into the hands of people at the local level as
quickly as possible, and was set in the broader context of alleviating immediate shortages. Nonetheless, it
is clear that the project design was influenced by microfinance practice, specifically as concerns
micro-lending. It is useful to apply good practice standards of microfinance to reviewing CEP credit
operations in order to understand how best to integrate the activities of the sub-component with the future


                                                       - 7 -

development of micro-finance in the country. At the same time, the activity was not intended as a long term
microfinance operation, and the planned transition to a larger microfinance activity never occurred for
reasons beyond the control of the project.
.
Under the original CEP, the benchmark for repayment of credit, set in the TFET Grant Agreement dated
February 2000, gave `more than 80%' as the performance indicator. No method for calculating this
measure was specified.

3.3.1.3 Sub-Component 3: Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and education
and health programmes in villages through the provision of Sub-grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups
in such villages. This sub-component was designed specifically to address critical education and health
needs in villages which had suffered damage or destruction to such facilities and services during the period
of unrest and violence, as well as to provide small sums for income generating activities among especially
vulnerable groups. These were identified through on-site participatory rural appraisals managed by the
facilitator together with the communities. Beneficiaries could include widows, the elderly, orphans and the
disabled. In addition to the eligible categories under the main grant (productive infrastructure, economic
goods) this window included scholarships as an allowable expenditure.

Initially this was designed to be operated by a civil society organization, and the Catholic Institute for
International Relief (CIIR) was selected to operate the programme, though this encountered difficulties, as
discussed further below.

3.3.1.4 Sub-Component 4: Strengthening of Coselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the
provision of technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and related materials.
This sub-component was designed to provide basic needs and technical assistance to the Conselho do Suco
(VDC) and Conselho do Posto to allow them to carry out their organizational and administrative
responsibilities. A technical facilitator was to be provided in each district, and villages and sub-districts
were to be provided with basic needs such as typewriters, furniture and vehicles as needed. In addition, 5%
of the total sub-grant was set a side for administrative purposes including; (i) furniture, (ii) office
equipment and stationary and, (iii) transport and per diem on meeting days. Of this budget sub-district
councils were to receive 2% and village councils 3%.

3.3.1.5 Subcomponent 5: Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco,
Conselho do Posto and local leaders. This sub-component was designed to provide administrative
training to the village and district level groups responsible for implementation of the project at those levels.
Training was to include the training of trainers for sub-district facilitators, administrative and financial
training for village development councils and sub-district development council, design and use of technical
manuals and design and use of a manual for empowerment.

Training was to be done by a cascade model where central PMU staff trained the village facilitators, who
transferred their acquired skills to the councils through in situ training between the various phases of a
cycle. Councils were again expected to pass their skills to community leaders and groups. Training of
councils focused on priority skills for the project cycle, including (i) participatory analysis, (ii) facilitation,
(iii) planning, as well as (iv) the specific procedures and regulation of the CEP.

3.3.1.6 Sub-Component 6: Provision of financial advisors to district administration. This
sub-component was designed to train individuals as financial specialists to provide guidance at the district
and village levels. At the district level the advisors were to operate as District Financial Officers, while at
the village level they were to act as treasurers to assist the VDCs in financial management and planning.


                                                       - 8 -

3.3.1.7 Sub-Component 7: Monitoring of the Project's impact on poverty in the Project
Sub-Districts, including provision of related technical assistance. This sub-component was designed to
specifically measure the impact of the project on poverty in the sub-districts in which the project was to be
implemented. This was to include the design of a poverty metric which would be applied to the
sub-districts in order to determine a baseline from which poverty impacts could be assessed. The District
Facilitators were to take the lead in these activities.

3.3.2    Component B: Cultural Heritage and Social Reconciliation.
Component B, as it appears in the TFET Grant Agreement, included two sub-components:
    l Reconstruction of a national heritage and performance center in Dili, and
    l Carrying out of cultural projects and social reconciliation activities in villages through the
         provision of sub-grants to such villages and the provision of technical assistance.

3.3.2.1 Sub-Component 1: Reconstruction of a national heritage and performance center in Dili. The
first sub-component of Component B is the development of a national heritage and performance center.
The center was to include a small vocational school, rotating displays, and a series of gallery and
performance spaces where international and Timorese artists and artisans could perform. The focus of the
performance center would be on living arts and outreach to the different Timorese communities. A
historically valuable but burned out building where the former national museum was housed was assigned
for this purpose. Design consultants for this work would be selected through standard international
procurement.

3.3.2.2 Sub-Component 2: Carrying out of cultural projects and social reconciliation activities in
villages through the provision of sub-grants to such villages and the provision of technical assistance.
World experience with post-conflict situations shows the importance of rebuilding social capital and
identifying culturally unifying activities from the outset of reconstruction. The project includes a small
grants programme by which a non-profit Timorese cultural heritage trust drawn from civil society will
provide support for community based cultural development programmes. These are small grants of less
than $1,000 and include items such as musical instruments, costumes, weaving supplies, performances and
simple school sports equipment. The list was to be finalized through village-level consultations.

3.3.3    Component C: Community Radio Development (CEP II and III) ($1.2 million)

In CEP II, the Civil Society Support Fund Component was dropped. In its place the Radio and Television
Component was added. This component continued in CEP III but its name was changed to Community
Radio Development to reflect its overarching development objective.

Component C consisted of two sub-components:
     1. Help strengthen the national radio broadcaster, and fund an international conference to discuss
         television options.
     2. Strengthen community communication and information through: (i) the provision of technical
         assistance, equipment and training to community radio stations; (ii) the rehabilitation of buildings
         to house community radio stations; and (iii) the provision of technical assistance and training to the
         Community Radio Center (CRC) to support the network of community radios.

3.3.3.1 This sub-component, part of the initial phase of this component, was designed to support
UNTAET Radio--later to become Radio Timor-Leste, part of the national public broadcaster--in their
efforts to increase radio coverage and access to information and news throughout the country. It marked


                                                       - 9 -

CEP's initial support for radio by helping recruit and train reporter trainees in all districts, and providing
them with small broadcasting equipment. Many of these district reporters have now become staff of the
national public broadcaster. This sub-component was also designed to facilitate discussion of technical and
funding alternatives for television in the country. UNTAET television--later to become Television
Timor-Leste, part of the national public broadcaster, organized a successful international conference with
experts and practitioners from the region. CEP's support to television was just limited to this particular
activity.

3.3.3.2 Though this activity began as a sub-component, it was later to become a full component under
CEP III. It was designed to build capacity in the community media sector to help strengthen social capital
and accountability at the local level, facilitate alternative sources of news and information, and provide a
vehicle to encourage participation, discussion of topics of local interest, and production of local programs.
The component viewed that an effective pro-poor development strategy must take into account the need to
develop an open and participatory communications environment.

Following a participatory process, eight community radio stations were established in selected districts,
along with their respective oversight boards (Kliburs) and radio station staff and management. The CRC
was also created as a central hub to provide training and maintenance support to these fledgling stations.
The sub-component helped provide broadcasting equipment; training to reporters, managers and
technicians; goods such as motorcycles, computers, and small equipment such as mini disks; and supplied
initial operating costs. Though it faced many challenges, the activity empowered the community by giving a
public voice to the voiceless and by encouraging greater accountability in public affairs. These results need
to be understood in the context of post-conflict Timor-Leste, where amid the destruction, a functioning
media sector was key. These stations are still on the air, though experiencing different levels of technical,
operational and maintenance problems, characteristic of community radio stations. There were
implementation problems, especially with the procurement of goods and the provision of training, which
had an impact on overall component performance. The delayed completion of a legal covenant hampered
(primarily a result of inaction on the part of GoTL) the ability to disburse according to plan and resulted in
funds being reallocated to other components. There was an initial allocation of US$1.2 million for this
component. After project completion, the GoTL provided a small grant to the CRC to continue to support
the community radio stations, until such time the pending broadcast law is enacted, and the roles and
responsibilities are sorted out. The CRC and the Community Radio Association of Timor-Leste (ARKTL)
have now drafted the community radio part of the broadcast law and have jointly submitted it to the GoTL
for review and enactment.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality at Entry is rated as Satisfactory. The project was subject to a Quality at Entry Assessment by
QAG, and the panel rated quality at entry as Highly Satisfactory. The panel was impressed by the
preparation and design of the project, particularly given the fact that it was designed under considerable
time pressure and in an extremely difficult environment. The panel noted the excellent use made of the
experience gained under the Kecamatan Development Project, and the fact that the project was even able to
locate the extension officers of the KDP in displaced persons camps and recruit them for employment under
the project. The QEA rated the project as Highly Satisfactory on Concept, Objectives and Approach,
Poverty and Social Aspects, Policy and Institutional Aspects, Risk Assessment and Management and Bank
Input and Processes. The project was rated as Satisfactory on Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects,



                                                       - 10 -

Environmental Aspects, Fiduciary Aspects and Implementation Arrangements.

In retrospect, there were clearly problems with the design of some components at entry, though overall the
project should still be rated as satisfactory at entry. Component (a), which accounted for about 80% of
project funds, worked well overall, but experienced problems with the revolving fund sub-component (see
below) and with respect to sustainability of the institutional changes promoted by the project. Components
(b) and (c) were not prepared; they existed primarily as project concepts to be worked out during project
start-up.

The overall development objective was substantially achieved. Communities received significant levels of
productive resources that were well-used and to which they would not have had access without the project.
However, the hoped for objective of articulating the local level decision-making institutions with formal
governmental institutions is unlikely. The task team believes that the majority of the project's problems
reflect issues tied to implementation management; few if any would have been solved had there been a
longer or more intensive preparation period. By contrast, the opportunity cost of delaying would have been
quite high.

The measures by which formation of social capital improvement, improvements in local governance and
overall poverty impact could be assessed were inadequate. However, in any case it is not clear whether
accurate measurements could have been made. For a quick action project intended to cover the whole
country, the methodological problems for a quantitative poverty impact assessment are de facto
insurmountable since no design can carry out either before/after or with/without measurements. CEP did
carry out an intensive qualitative survey shortly after start-up.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall objectives of CEP I remained essentially consistent through the life of the project. They were to
provide a quick and effective transfer of resources to poor communities in the post-conflict transition; to
build economically productive tertiary infrastructure; and "to strengthen local level social capital to build
institutions that reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth."

Given the context of a completely destroyed country with no effectively functioning subnational
government for the entire first year of project start-up, the first objective is considered to have been fully
achieved. CEP was up and running in half the country before the next quickest project funded from the
TFET was even effective. Throughout its life, CEP provided coverage that no other project could match,
and in a disappointingly large number of isolated, poor villages across East Timor, CEP was the only
development project providing resources.

The second project objective was largely achieved. CEP's economic infrastructure used designs and
standards appropriate for low-intensity uses, and the significantly higher standards proposed by some of
CEP's external reviewers are not backed by an economic justification.

The third objective has two main aspects: improvement of local governance, and reduction of poverty.
Achievement of this objective should be measured in the broad context and experience of community driven
development projects, with special attention to aspects of participation and inclusion. It is important to
assess the capacity of the councils, the ways and effectiveness with which the councils have interacted with
traditional authority and decision-making bodies and institutions, the extent to which there has been
effective participation and inclusion of women, the poor and the highly vulnerable in the councils,



                                                       - 11 -

decision-making and the project as a whole, and the overall impacts on poverty. Finally consideration
should be given to the implications of the formation and operation of the councils for the effective
establishment of local government structures and local governance in Timor-Leste in general, both during
the life of the project and for the future.

4.1.1 Local councils and local governance

4.1.1.1 Introduction. The legal basis for the village and sub-district councils is the UNTAET resolution
2000/13. That resolution mandated that village councils would comprise at least 12 members, two from
each hamlet (aldeia) in the village (if the village had less than 6 hamlets 1-2 additional representatives were
to be elected from each hamlet). The councils are thus built from lowest administrative unit, the hamlet.     1


Each village council, in turn, elects two members, a man and a woman, who represent the village in the
sub-district development council. The councils were not to duplicate or replace the role of traditional and
local leaders, but to regularly consult with these on their work. The councils were focusing on grant funded
project activities, not on political issues.

The formation of the VDCs represented a major break from the pre-existent mechanisms by which local
bodies had been selected and constituted under Indonesian rule. Whereas Indonesian processes had been
highly centralized and top-down, the VDCs were characterized by:
     i. Election of membership by direct vote ­ either secret ballot, raising of hands, or acclamation. Each
         adult villager had two votes: one for a female candidate and one for a male candidate.
    ii. Only people not already holding offices within the village could stand for election.
    iii. Each hamlet was guaranteed election of one man and one woman as representatives.
    iv. The village councils were directly accountable to their electorate.
     v. The sub-district council consisted of elected representatives from the village councils.

An important aspect of the original round of elections was that they were strongly supported by CNRT. In     2


addition, equal representation of women and men on the councils was supported by the OMT (Organização
de Mulheres Timorenses), the women's organisation of the CNRT at the village level). For a development
project to adopt such a radical strategy in a very traditional society with a high degree of illiteracy is a
noteworthy experiment.

4.1.1.2 Council elections and council members. The CEP field facilitators facilitated the election
process, and by May 2000, most villages had formed councils, which were a pre-condition for receiving the
emergency funds of the first cycle disbursements. The total voter participation was 82%, with 80.5% of
women and 82.3 % of men turning out to vote. 98% of the villages achieved the mandated 50%
participation rate of both male and female voters. Of the three options for electoral process, 44% of
villages chose secret ballot, 26% chose show of hands and 30% used acclamation. In all three cases, the
                                                                                     3


candidates were reportedly often pre-selected by the CNRT and the traditional leaders of the village. The4


village councils were first elected for a year, and then for a three-year period. New elections to the councils
were held in mid-2001, but there are no data available on the election process.

The elections fulfilled the formal requirements as of regulation 2000/13, but they were clearly to some
extent a compromise between direct democracy, traditional approaches and authority and recognition of the
central role and high popularity of the CNRT. It should be seen as a signal achievement of the project to
have put together a process and outcome which achieved a high degree of legitimacy among such disparate
groups and interests. It should be noted that CNRT enjoyed a very high popularity throughout the country
after independence and it was widely seen as legitimate that their candidates filled the many positions
including those of the village councils.




                                                      - 12 -

Members of the councils tend to be fairly young and comparatively educated. The review mission of
mid-2003 found that members of the councils in the villages are generally between 25-40 years. The most
                                                                                                    5


frequently mentioned criterion for selection of candidates was the time and capacity to work on council.
The members met by the review team all had at least primary school education and several had a secondary
education. Most of the council members met with reported that the members of their council were married,
           6


which implies the members are fully established and adult members of the village. However, a few villages
made a point of having elected young unmarried persons to the council as these had more time to devote to
the work. Some women also noted it is difficult to participate when a woman has young children to care
for.

4.1.1.3 Function of the councils. Each VDC elects/chooses a chair, a secretary, and a treasurer. The
key function of the councils is, with the participation of community members, to identify the development
needs of the village and to prioritise and plan projects that address these needs. These project proposals
are then submitted to the sub-district development council for approval and funding.

In preparing the project proposal, the council is assisted by the CEP sub-district facilitator or by technical
facilitators appointed by the sub-district council. The council manages the project funds, under the
guidance of the treasurer, on behalf of the village. Further, they are responsible for organising the
implementation of approved projects and provide financial and administrative reports to the sub-district
council as well as to the village.

Councils often do not have the technical expertise to prepare a full proposal, so the initial proposals are
often summary. The councils depend on the technical teams or the CEP facilitators to make the final
technical proposals, which include detailed budgets, several technical drawings specifying the construction,
maps showing location, and a list of beneficiaries (per household). Before a project is approved, a
verification team appointed by the sub-district council undertakes a field visit and confirms that the
proposal and the beneficiaries are as stated in the project proposal and that it can realistically be
implemented. A five-person technical team appointed by the council is responsible for the implementation
of the project, including the procurement of materials and hiring of labour. It constitutes itself with a chair,
a secretary, a treasurer, and two assisting members.




                                                      - 13 -

The informants met with during the mid-2003 review mission all felt that these procedures were highly
transparent and that the division of labour and responsibility between the village council, the verification
team, the implementation team, and the sub-district council was clear and ensured that funds were used for
the designated purposes. The time between proposal making and completion of the project (i.e. an entire
project cycle) is estimated to be about 2-3 months. The most frequent delay is reported to be in the transfer
of funds from the CEP head office. All projects in a sub-district have to be completed (on the 50-40-10%
schedule ­ 50% once the proposal is approved, then 40 and 10% based on implementation progress) before
the funds are transferred. Since all the the disbursenment tranches had to be made for the entire subdistrict
at one time, all village projects had to be fully prepared and approved before the first 50% was disbursed
and all projects had to meet the requirements before the next 40% was disbursed. This meant the projects
prepared most quickly and efficiently were often waiting considerable periods of time until the other
projects in the subdistrict were ready.7




Informants verify that the council meetings were public and the all villagers are invited, and that the
traditional adat leaders, village and hamlet heads always attended, as did many ordinary villagers.
Meetings were held several times in the process of a project, often after each step in the implementation.
The purpose of repeated public meetings where all villagers had the opportunity to participate was to show
accountability, informing the villagers about the project and the funds approved, the receipt of the funds,
and the use of the funds.

Traditional leaders participate actively and are well integrated into all stages of the process. The council
representatives met with during the review all reported that the traditional leaders were consulted on
projects before decisions were taken and that the village head signed the project proposal. This has been
the local way of integrating two decision-making structures that necessarily had to be in agreement for the
activities to be implemented successfully in the village. In this respect the councils have been creative in
integrating the functioning of two essentially different systems of decision-making. This is an important
result. The project was often criticized for excluding traditional decisionmakers, but in fact was very
successful in integrating them, and this was obvious from visits to the field .

There was also a strong aspect of conflict resolution and minimization in the process. There was clearly an
urge to avoid creating or reinforcing conflicts and hostilities after the traumatic pre- and post-referendum
experiences. One expression of this is the fact that, during the emergency phase of the project, the most
frequent use of the project funds (50% in total) was to reconstruct the village hall. The rationale behind
this appears to have been the wish to use the funds for a purpose that benefited all villagers equally and
would be a symbol of reconciliation for the village.

There are no statistical data available on how the councils are making decisions. The concept of
democratic decisions by secret voting is very different from traditional consensus based decision-making.
Interviews in the field gave the general impression that discussions were lively and involved not only
council members but also other villagers. Ospina and Hohe report that actual decision-making was still in
the hands of the usual power holders. It is important to assess the decision-making process against the
                                       8


previous experience of the villagers, as discussed above, rather than against a democratic ideal not in
concordance with local perceptions. In this respect, all informants reported an increased influence on the
decision-making process by ordinary villagers in the village through the councils.

The extent to which original council members have remained active in the councils has varied. Most
appear to have remained active, while some have ceased to participate in the meetings. The review team
estimated that an average being of 72% remained active, although it is unclear what the exact definition of
active is, and this figure should not be seen as highly accurate. There appears to have been a more



                                                      - 14 -

significant decline in levels of participation of women, and the review team estimated that about 55% of
original women members remain active. This is further discussed below.

Each village is intended to have a notice board where the decisions of the councils are made public,
including financial reporting. Several problems have been noted with the notice boards:
     i. Given low levels of literacy, many villagers cannot directly access the information,
    ii. The formal nature of many documents from the project means an even higher level of functional
         literacy is required to understand them properly,
    iii. CEP facilitators consistently reported that information posted on the notice board was torn down
         within a few days. It is not clear why this happens, but it does reflect a shortcoming in the
         intended function of the notice boards.

However, even with the problems associated with the notice boards, a number of effective strategies are in
place to ensure villagers receive full information, some designed spontaneously by the communities
themselves. These include making all decisions, including financial information, public in the church after
the Sunday mass - the authority of the church reinforces the importance of transparency, and a large
majority of villagers are usually present. Almost all councils also hold public meetings in the village where
each step in the process is reported and questions can be asked by any villagers.

Though a few informants were not aware of the existence of the council, interviews in the field conveyed a
clear picture that the councils are perceived as positive, and that the villagers highly value the increased
transparency and influence they have through the councils. They compare the council projects favourably
to the more negative experience of the Indonesian period and the present experience some informants have
with other agencies implementing projects. In several of the villages visited, the CEP projects were the only
development activity since independence.

4.1.1.4 The Role of Women in the Councils. The UNTEAT 2000/13 Resolution stipulated that women
account for 50% of village council membership. This was a very ambitious goal in a society with very
specific roles designated to each gender, few of which, for women, included high public profiles.
Nonetheless, the guidance was widely accepted, and justified in the local context at the level of hamlet and
village by viewing the women as representing the women of the hamlet while the men represented the men.
The list of council members provided by PMU shows 100% compliance with the 50/50 representation
across all village development councils. Interviews with leaders of village and sub-district councils
                                          9


confirmed that most, but not all, councils comprised an equal number of men and women.

Elections to the councils were structured to ensure this 50/50 repesentation. Each voter voted for one man
and one women. This was well received by the villagers on the whole. This appears to have been much
more effective than a quota system would have been. For example, UNTAET suggested the use of a quota
system for elections to the Constitutional Assembly, but this was resisted strongly by a variety of
constituents and was eventually abandoned.

However, there have been some problems. For example, of the first councils elected in 2000, a survey of
328 of these shows that only 2 had appointed women as leaders of the council. In addition, as noted
                                                                                  10


above, the number of active council members has been declining, and the participation of women has
decreased more than that of men. It is also frequently reported that the husband of a female member of the
council often represents her, de facto replacing her on the council. 11




Given the traditional social and cultural understandings of Timor society, there are a number of factors
which might discourage the participation of women. Traditionally, women are not expected to actively
participate in public meetings. Instead, men are expected to represent their households and village towards



                                                     - 15 -

the outer world, and women are not expected to voice an opinion when the men are making decisions. This
perception is generally shared by both men and women, although some women reported that they were not
given enough chance to participate because the men dominated the meetings. In general, women are seen as
responsible for maintaining the domestic sphere and taking care of children. Women are also constrained in
their levels of public participation because they suffer from higher illiteracy levels than men. Finally, it is
not considered appropriate for a woman to travel unaccompanied or with another male who is not her
husband. This has particularly constrained their participation in the sub-district development council
meetings. However, there are significant local differences, and it appears that women may participate more
actively in sub-districts located away from larger urban centres despite the generally greater distances and
poorer conditions of the roads in these areas. This may reflect the significance attached to development
projects in villages where no option for increasing access to basic services has existed until recently, as well
as a lower opportunity cost for participation as there are few possibilities for paid employment in these
areas.

The review team did not visit any actual council meetings, so it gained no clear picture of the nature of
women's participation in the meetings themselves. Both men and women reported that women are active in
the meetings, but this needs to be seen in contrast to traditional practices in which there was very little
participation of women. In some pictures of meetings, it is clear that women are outnumbered by men, and
that they tend to sit towards the back of the group, and although women may make suggestions and
contribute to the discussions in the meetings, it is an open question the extent to which they have a real,
consistent influence on decisions. Nonetheless, the significance of the general acceptance of the right of
women to participate should not be underestimated, and the project has clearly at least begun an important
process of empowerment of women at the village and sub-district levels.

The most important factor in the sustained participation of women, as well as men, members seems to be
the leadership abilities of the council leader. When he (as is usually the case) is able to motivate the
villagers, and actively engage in the work himself, participation remains high. Investment in training and
motivation of the village council leaders (418 in all) would have been a realistic and probably very
supportive measure had it been undertaken.

The project has made an effort to convene the women representatives before the council meetings to enable
them to prepare their cases and formulate a joint strategy for action. This has evidently occurred with some
regularity, but it is unclear how widespread it is. In some cases this was reported to have been a
contributing factor to strengthening the participation of women where it has taken place. More systematic
encouragement and implementation of such gatherings would have facilitated the participation of the
women.

Overall, there is little doubt that the project has made a major contribution to the empowerment of women
at the local level, and to their inclusion in decision-making and planning processes at both the village and
sub-district level. It is encouraging that the review team found that there was overall a general agreement
by both men and women that higher levels of women's participation were both desirable and beneficial.
Though there are a number of issues which should be dealt with to improve levels of participation and to
strengthen the role of women, good progress has been made under the project.




                                                       - 16 -

4.1.1.5 Future Role of the Councils. A key question with respect to the VDCs is what role they are likely
to play in the future in the villages and in cooperation with the sub-district level. In most cases the councils
have been integrated into the interim structure of the village administration as one of the institutions under
the general leadership of the village head. However, in many villages there is a separate "development"
body, and this has created some uncertainty as to what the future of the councils would be. The primary
source of power of the councils has been the funds they were managing, and, after several years of
implementation, the capacity and skills built through the CEP experience.

Government representatives with whom the review mission met all reported that they considered the village
development councils to have been a positive contribution to bringing democracy and local participation to
the villages. They also felt that the skills and experience acquired by villagers who had been active in the
councils had empowered them in ways which would prove to be for future development activities in the
village. This in itself is a major achievement of the CEP, particularly given the low levels of participation
and local responsibility during the Indonesian period. In the final analysis, the role played by the village
head will be decisive in how the councils will be involved in future development projects. The village head
is the formal link to the sub-district administration, and the person receiving information on government
projects as well as the one being approached by various donors.

The original aim of the CEP was that the development councils in the longer run would have five key
functions: (i) preparing and executing village development plans that address the local needs in agriculture,
healthcare, education, communications, income generating projects as determined by the community; (ii)
producing village codes of conduct and resolving disputes; (iii) managing village funds; (iv) relaying the
priority development needs that cannot be met through local efforts to sub-district and districts; and (v)
strengthening participation and democratic practices.

After more than three years of functioning, there is little doubt that there has been a general improvement in
the capacity of the VDCs to undertake these tasks. The councils are able to establish priorities within
limited budgets and to plan and manage the implementation of village projects, and they do so in a
generally participatory and inclusive manner. The challenge is to transfer these skills into other activities,
local institutions and development activities funded through other channels than the CEP. During the
review mission, most council members seemed motivated to continue working with other projects. They
recognise that they need more skills in participatory need assessment and in preparing project proposals.
From discussions with various stakeholders, it appears that the personal leadership skill of the council chair
is an important factor with regard to the continued functioning of the VDC. However, even if the VDC
does not continue as a discrete institution, both the skills and the skilled personnel developed under the
programme can be very useful in a range of activities at the local level in the future.

4.1.2 Poverty impacts

4.1.2.1 Introduction. A key element of the overall objective of CEP was to build institutions that reduce
poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth. One of the shortcomings of project design was the
failure to include a mechanism by which poverty reduction could actually be monitored and measured
through the life of the project. This was unfortunate, as it is clear from impressionistic data that the project
has probably had a significant effect on improving the situation of the poor. Nonetheless, there are data
sources which can provide at least some insight into the impacts of the project on the poor.     The key data
for constructing a baseline for measuring poverty impacts is the Timorese Living Standard Measurement
Survey.




                                                      - 17 -

4.1.2.2 The Timorese Living Standard Measurement Survey. The Timorese Living Standard
Measurement Survey (TLSMS) initially intended to be part of CEP but was separated out before appraisal
because of timing. The survey was undertaken jointly by the donors in late 2001, and was completed in
December, 2001. The TLSMS can be used as the baseline for economic development indicators after this
date. Though TLSMS data are the most relevant available for assessment of poverty impacts of the CEP,
as there are no base line data available for the start of the CEP in February 2000, in all likelihood the levels
of poverty were far higher in the immediate aftermath of the violence following the referendum in
September 1999 (which is estimated to have destroyed some 80% of the physical infrastructure), than was
the case even one year later when the TLSMS was conducted. Therefore, any positive impacts on levels of
poverty which are noticeable in the period since the TLSMS probably underestimate the impacts since the
referendum itself.12




The poverty measures available from the Timorese Living Standard Measurement Survey are important
both in terms of evaluating the impact on poverty of the project and for describing the situation and the
conditions under which the project has been implemented. As such, it provides part of the context in which
the trade-off was made between delivering resources and services immediately and investing in longer term
reconstruction of institutional structures and systems.

The TLSMS is based on an economic definition of poverty: An individual is deemed poor if he/she is not
able to maintain a minimum standard of living. The national minimum standard of living is defined as the
minimum expenditure to purchase a food basket providing 2100 calories per person per day including
allowance for non-food consumption. Using this definition, the poverty line in Timor-Leste is estimated to
be USD 15.44 per month.    13




In 2001, 40% of the population was living below the national poverty line. Poverty was highest in rural
areas (44%) where 85% of the population is living. Other objectively verifiable poverty indicators are
access to basic services. Only 44% of the rural population had access to clean water, and 11% to
electricity. The rates for clean water and electricity access in the urban areas were 64% and 72%,
respectively. The violence in 1999 is reported to have damaged or destroyed 89% of the houses in rural
areas and 69% in urban areas. The adult literacy rate was only 48%, but rose to 77% for youth (age
15-24). The rate of school enrolment in 2001 was 75% in primary school and 30% in secondary school,
compared to 65% and 27%, respectively, before the violence in 1999. The ratio of girls to boys in primary
school was 97% in 2001 compared to 83% in 1999. Infant mortality remained high (between 88 and 125
per 1000 live births) and the level of child immunization very low (under 10%).




                                                      - 18 -

4.1.2.3 Assessment of Poverty Impact of Project. Since poverty reduction is a key aspect of the overall
objective of CEP, it would be useful to be able to relate impacts in the villages in which the project has
operated to the above indicators. Unfortunately, operational definitions and verifiable indicators that can
be applied by the village and sub-district councils have not been developed by the project. For the
infrastructure component of the project (reconstruction of road, bridges, water supply, irrigation work,
rehabilitation of houses and schools etc.) even a simple quantifiable indicator showing the number of
households having access to the facility before and after the project implementation would have given a
measure of the impact on provision of basic services, and an estimate of the number of beneficiaries.
However, the only indicator available is the number of sub-projects which involved various kinds of
infrastructure improvements; no information is available giving a baseline of houses or households served,
and no information has been collected on numbers served after implementation of sub-projects.
Quantifiable assessment of the impact of the project on poverty alleviation is thus not possible. Any
evaluation must, therefore, rely on impressionistic and indirect information based on data from the PMU
and from observations in the field.

Disbursements undertaken during the first cycle in 2000 were done as an emergency operation, and
provided equal resources to all villages (proportional to the size of the sub-district population). For the
second and third cycle disbursement, the selection of projects to be implemented in the villages, and thus
the priorities in terms of services and beneficiaries, was left to the village and the sub-district councils.
Discussions in the field with representatives from the village and sub-district councils, as well as CEP field
staff, revealed that the main operational selection criteria were:
   l The project should reach a substantial number of beneficiaries. Sub-projects benefiting only a few
         households should not be entertained, even if those households were needy. Benefits should not
         flow disproportionately to a few individuals.
   l The project should be simple enough to be implemented by the village itself. The technical skills
         and manpower needed to undertake it should be available within the village or in its immediate
         vicinity.
   l The project should be within the limits of the budget provided by the CEP (average USD 7,250 per
         village for the second cycle).
   l The project should be sustainable and legal status/rights of access to land and water resources used
         should not be contested.

These criteria are at once very general and pragmatic. They should be assessed in the light of the very high
incidence of poverty in the country (particularly just after the violence of 1999), the limited budget
available and the human resources available to undertake the projects.

Data from the PMU shows a total of 330,969 beneficiaries of the third cycle disbursements, based on the
household data (a list of identifiable beneficiaries has to be annexed to each project proposal). An
additional number of households will have benefited from the second cycle disbursement. It is not possible
to eliminate double registration of households, and thus not possible to obtain a "net" number of
beneficiaries.

The overall evaluation of the poverty impact of the CEP programme must include the fact that it was
successful in reaching all villages of Timor-Leste with funds for projects that addressed issues of basic
importance to the poor and poverty reduction. In addition, the project did so in a very short time frame,
certainly much more quickly than any other aid or development effort undertaken following the 1999
emergency situation.

Field visits confirm that the funds have indeed been applied for projects that address basic needs, such as


                                                      - 19 -

water supplies and housing for vulnerable households. The project did not develop a more differentiated
approach to poverty alleviation at later stages of implementation and it has not developed indicators for
monitoring poverty impact. There is a trade-off between specific targeting and entrusting the management
of the funds to the communities with an "open menu."

As noted above, there are no good baseline data against which to measure poverty impact. However, it is
clear that well more than half the total population was living in poverty following the violence of 1999,
particularly given that almost two years later (and after the project had been in operation almost that long)
44% of the rural population was still living in poverty. Even those who were living above the national
poverty line were still highly vulnerable to subsistence poverty as reflected in the data from the national
poverty survey. In this situation, the injection of funds in to the villages, particularly as those funds were
applied to projects providing basic services and made available to a large number of households (the third
cycle disbursement alone is estimated to have reached 40% of all households in the nation), would
unquestionably have had a positive impact on poverty. Such activities would also, in all likelihood, have
contributed to more sustained poverty reduction in the future by improving access to health and education
as well access to markets and improved income generating opportunities. Finally, CEP has provided a
substantial investment in capacity building at the village and sub-district level in terms of improvements in
local governance ­ and, not the least, in increased transparency and accountability - which constitutes a
strategic investment in the effectiveness with which poverty alleviation can be addressed in a long term,
sustainable manner.

4.1.2.4 Participation of the Poor. Community driven development and local governance projects are
based on principles of demand responsiveness, participatory mechanisms for community control and
stakeholder investment, capacity building of community based organisations, access to information and
informed decision making, flexibility in project designs and adjustments to local conditions and resources,
gender inclusion and social prioritizing. By empowering local communities by giving them direct
management of funds, it is hoped that increased transparency will lead to efficient use of resources and the
enhancement of social capital.

The participation of the poor can be assessed against the objectives of the project in terms of local
participation and governance, implemented through the village councils with an "open menu" for the use of
funds. CEP has internalized this approach to development to a much greater extent than other projects and
activities being implemented in the country. The villages and sub-districts visited consistently reported that
they had no information about the funds used by other projects. In some cases communities were consulted
as part of the needs assessment, but by and large the impression of the people at the village level was that
most donors implemented projects based on predetermined objectives and designs. Some aid groups
utilized local village labor, often as the local contribution to project implementation, but more often
contractors have implemented projects without any local contribution from, or involvement of, the direct
beneficiaries.

So it is clear that participation is a hallmark of the CEP. Nonetheless, the question remains concerning the
extent the village councils included the poor or the extent to which the poor were mere onlookers who
happened, in some cases, to be recipients of project benefits. As noted above, members of councils appear
to be relatively better educated than average (given a 50% illiteracy rate), and since education level,
according to the national poverty study, is related to poverty, the council members are likely not to have
been the poorest of the poor in the village. Again, there are tradeoffs here between participation of the poor
and capacity to implement development through the mechanisms set by the CEP.

The election mechanism to the councils appears to have ensured equal representation of all hamlets and of


                                                       - 20 -

all villages, regardless of the level of poverty and isolation, as well as an equal representation of women.
The council members all report having invested considerable amounts of time and effort to manage the
village projects over the past 3-4 years. There is always an opportunity cost for this type of voluntary
work, and for very poor households (especially female headed households) that cost may be too high. The
council members have only received a very small compensation for transport, not covering the real costs of
participating in the council meetings.  14




Finally, it should be noted that the local contribution to the project is 32% of the total project costs for the
third cycle disbursement. The contribution has been in the form of materials (sand, rocks, wood) and
labour. As there are no data which would provide us with a breakdown of the income or poverty levels of
those who have made contributions, such as labor, there is no way to determine the extent to which the poor
have participated, or have been asked to participate in such contributions.

4.1.2.4 Participation and Targeting of the Highly Vulnerable. The Highly Vulnerable Groups
Sub-component (Programme Pembedayaan Masyarakat Vulnerable ­ PPMV) did not really become active
under CEP I and was added to CEP II. The target groups, i.e. the definition of highly vulnerable groups,
are widows, orphans, disabled, elderly, traumatised, isolated, or street children. Although these groups are
likely to be particularly susceptible to poverty, they are also a very heterogeneous group with very different
needs and different possibilities for participation in a project. Even within one category of the target
groups, such as the widows, the degree of vulnerability will need to be differentiated. The justification for
adding a special sub-component for highly vulnerable groups would be to make the selection criteria more
specific than for the general sub-grants.

The requirement to address the needs of the most vulnerable was communicated by CEP staff to the
members of the village councils in general terms and with examples, as there are no objectively verifiable
data available at the village or sub-district level. An estimate from the PMU staff is that 61% of the
recipients are women and 39% men. Women have a higher representation than men partly because the
programme includes widows, but not widowers.

The preparations started in July 2002, with socialization at the regional, district and sub-district level. The
programme follows the same procedure as the other village sub-grants, with the village council making a
proposal, which is then checked in the field by the verification team at the sub-district level, with the project
finally being proposed to, and a decision made by the sub-district council.

Project proposals were forwarded from the districts to the national level for funding only in May 2003,
with the bulk of the proposals being submitted in August 2003. A total of 55 sub-districts and 9 DCDCs
have submitted proposals. By the time of the Review, 50% of the project funds (the first allocation) had
                            15


been released to 16 sub-districts, equal to 25% of the project proposals. The Review considered it highly
unlikely that these, and the remaining 48 proposals which were still being processed, would be able to run a
full project cycle before the closure of CEP by end of March, 2004, but in fact a number of the proposals
were approved and implemented. The remaining funds were distributed through a process of direct
application to CEP by organizations that care for the vulnerable. Final selections were made by a
committee that included PMU, GoTL and civil society organizations.

The grants for the highly vulnerable groups are paid to "groups" (kelompok) comprising 4-6 persons. At
the outset, these groups were intended to be based on "type" of vulnerability, but this proved impractical as
often there were not that many people in each "group" in specific villages. Instead, the groups are now
mixed. The grants are given for productive purposes, such as livestock breeding (buffalo, cows, pigs,
hens), and "scholarships" to enable children to attend school. The justification for making group


                                                      - 21 -

allocations has been that the funds are so small (a maximum of USD 500 per village) that it would be
unworkable if divided into smaller allocations. Nonetheless, the grants appear, in many cases, to in fact
have been used on an individual level (based on the experience with the pilot PPMV).

The beneficiaries contribute by building the pens for the animals and providing fodder and other basic
requirements. In cases where the recipient has not been able to erect the pens, labour has been provided by
neighbors or through the village head. Since most of the groups are mixed, the PMU is not able to produce
specific data on the distribution of funds to specific target groups.

There are several issues to be addressed regarding the implementation and relevance of the Highly
Vulnerable Group programme.

The implementation speed. The programme was slow in getting started. It only began to pick up speed
towards the end of 2003, more than a year after it was initiated. This was an unacceptable delay,
especially given that the councils, the CEP staff, and all financial procedures were already in place. This is
even more unfortunate in that the programme is addressing the most vulnerable groups, which are in the
most urgent need of assistance. The delay was due to several related factors.

First, no specific facilitator for the PPMV was appointed at the sub-districts or village level, only a focus
person at the district level. The socialization and facilitation at the sub-districts and villages thus became
the task of the existing field staff of CEP, who were already feeling overburdened with the proposal process
in the villages for the general community grants. Only by the end of July 2003 was a workshop held with
the staff to resolve how the sub-district monitors should coordinate the PPMV. Second, the verification
process was more time consuming than for the infrastructure projects, as the verification team from the
sub-districts had to meet individual beneficiaries in the field. Third, population data, including information
on the specific target groups, from the 2001 national survey should have been available through the village
head, but some council members wanted more recent data and requested additional operational funds to
obtain these, resulting in a delay in implementation.

The selection of the target group. To justify the launch of an additional programme concept in the middle
of the project, the target group should be distinct from the existing target group(s). This does not appear to
have been the case. The Component A sub grants for social purposes have, to a considerable extent,
benefited widows (female headed households) and elderly and did so long before the PPMV programme
was manifest on the ground.   16 It might have been possible, with a bit more encouragement of VDCs and
further "education" to be sensitive to poorer and more marginal groups, to ensure that the basic community
grants were directed even more than they had been originally to assist vulnerable groups.

The budget available. The total available budget for the programme was USD 882,000, of which USD
509,865 was allocated for sub-district grants. This amounts to an average of USD 0.65 per inhabitant.
                                                17


The maximum amount allocated per village is USD 500, substantially below the grants given for
infrastructure projects. The issue is not so much whether such relatively small sums would be useful to the
poor and vulnerable (doubtless they would), but whether such small amounts would be given the attention
they required by local council and other staff who are likely to see such funds as a side issue. The
opportunity costs for local staff already spending considerable amounts of time and energy on much larger
sub-projects, might be expected to work against their active involvement in the programme.

The conclusion is that the PPMV has not, in general, reached its target, and that the regular sub-grant
programme has already reached part of the intended target group. Integrating the PPMV funds into the



                                                      - 22 -

regular funding procedure is likely to have resulted in a higher and speedier dispersal rate and more
flexibility in implementation. This should be taken into account in any future activities of a similar nature.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Part A: Community Sub-Grants and Credits is divided into 7 sub-components:
     i. Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the provision of Sub-grants
         to the relevant Conselho do Suco.
    ii. Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages through the provision of Credits
         to Borrowers.
    iii. Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and education and health programmes in
         villages through the provision of Sub-grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups in such villages.
    iv. Strengthening of Coselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the provision of technical
         assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and related materials.
     v. Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco, Conselho do Posto and
         local leaders.
    vi. Provision of financial advisors to district administration.
   vii. Monitoring of the Project's impact on poverty in the Project Sub-Districts, including provision of
         related technical assistance.

The number of beneficiaries is difficult to determine accurately as the project reaches every village in
Timor. During the emergency period no monitoring took place due to the urgency of distributing funds. It is
estimated that some 70,000 people benefited from the water and sanitation projects. However, more people
benefited from the construction of roads and infrastructure rebuilding.

4.2.1 Output of Subcomponent 1
Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the provision of Sub-grants to the
relevant village development council (Conselho do Suco).

A total of more than USD 3.5M has been distributed to village development councils for infrastructure
activities during both cycles, amounting to 72% of the total sub-grant (see table 3 and 4). During cycle one
USD 1.38M was distributed. During this cycle, the emergency period, the grants were provided in equal
amounts to the villages directly, and later through the sub-district councils as these were established.
Grants could be used in accordance with a closed menu focusing on urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation
work. USD3 per man-day could be used to compensate village community voluntary construction. No
records exist at PMU level to indicate the total expended on this activity.

During the second cycle, the choice of activities was open, apart from a short negative list. A total of USD
2,128,585 was allocated for infrastructure activities. During this cycle VDCs tended to opt for water
supply and roads, with 46% of funds used for water and sanitation activities and 23% for constructing
roads and bridges. Funds were distributed to sub-districts according to population size, but were distributed
to the villages on a competitive basis. Despite the involvement of all villages in the sub-district and the
attendance of a verification team, there were some reports in sub-districts of problems and possible conflict
over the competitive approach. The second round of disbursements was not allocated to the respective
villages before all within a sub-district had accounted for the initial allocations. For some villages this
caused serious delays and Is reported to have impacted on community motivation.

Overall, the civil engineering projects are well chosen, well designed, and implemented, with the possible
exception of some of the road works. Water supply projects serve a needed demand, and given a minimum



                                                     - 23 -

amount of regular maintenance, they should be able to provide many years of service. The quality of the
valves and taps used throughout most of the projects is a problem. Cheap, low quality valves have
generally been used (for most of the project's life no other choices were available in national markets)
which are quickly broken.

The irrigation systems appear to be most sustainable. They were well built and, judging by the enthusiasm
of the local community during implementation, they should be well maintained. However, road projects
overall were less well designed; lack of compaction and insufficient attention to drainage being general
problems. All of the road projects inspected required 4 wheel drive vehicles for access. Four bridges were
observed as part of the CEP programme. Three already completed appear well designed and constructed.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 1 are rated Satisfactory.

4.2.2 Output of Subcomponent 2
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages through the provision of Credits to
Borrowers.

Performance of the Subcomponent
This amounted to approximately 13% of the component. Data on the economic activities financed by the
CEP indicate that in the initial round of lending the startup or recapitalization of 864 micro-businesses, or
groups of micro-businesses, was funded, with coverage in every district of Timor-Leste. Total
disbursements were $1,047,059 for these initial loans at an average of $1,212. Recycled loans totaled some
$211,000 and financed between 150 and 170 group enterprises. `New' lending during CEP III financed
another 22 groups, giving a total of perhaps 1050 at a mean loan size of around $1,240.

According to the NCG Review, a variety of projects have been supported. The largest category (USD
565,316 or 54%) has been used for the establishment of small kiosks. The other major types of investment
are livestock (12%), fishing (6%) and rice hulling (6%), whereas the remaining funds are distributed
between 22 different types of businesses. These businesses are run both by men and women, but there are
no gender disaggregated data to indicate the actual composition of the groups that have obtained credit. A
total of USD 69,524 (2% of the overall grant) has been provided specifically to women's groups for more
traditional activities such as sewing and weaving, the total figure also includes the training costs.

Subsequent lending broadly reflects this initial pattern, with possibly an even greater proportion of loans
applied to retailing. Thus the principal output of the Project was support for petty trading and the supply of
formal sector, manufactured, goods to a rural economy in which many or most families are responsible for
their own subsistence. This was an important intervention, both in the short-term situation of disrupted
market supply after the crisis, and in the longer term.

The Independent Review concluded that the total value of loans to the end of August, 2003, was about
$1.3M, but this included not only the "original" first round loans of $1.044M, but an estimated $0.211
million in "recycled" loans (or second round loans). The number of loans made was 864 in the first round,
and perhaps 150-170 `recycled' loans to end-August 2003, for a total of just over 1,000 loans total, with a
mean value of around $1,300. Much of this lending permitted the recapitalization of previously existing
microenterprises.

Total repayments to end-August 2003 were recorded as $0.410 million, equivalent to 31% of the total
advanced to that date. Project data do not permit calculation of collections as a proportion of repayments
having fallen due to end-August. This would put a better light on collection performance (although it would


                                                     - 24 -

still be below 40% in all probability). Some rescheduling of loan repayments had commenced from early
2003, although in cases examined by the Independent Review team the results were described as
unpromising. The final repayment result for CEP lending is likely to be less than 40% at the conclusion of
the Project.

The number of loans made was substantially greater than originally expected, though still a relatively small
percentage of the overall project. The value of individual loan proposals was typically well below the level
set in Project guidelines. The guidelines took the concept of a community group, whose members would
work together within the subgrant programme for infrastructure, and extended it to group activities in the
economic domain. In fact, many persons named as members of the `groups' to which loans were made were
not active participants, and it is accordingly not possible to estimate the number of beneficiaries or their
gender.

Concerning the sustainability of economic activities financed, given that the great majority of
loan-recipients were in arrears, the PMU had difficulty estimating the degree to which the businesses
concerned were viable and active. The Independent Review Mission visited a sample of posto and
interviewed numerous borrowers, including a number in default. The broad conclusion was that the
businesses were generally in better shape than the loan programme that financed them. A clear majority
seemed still to be operating. The ICR for SEP I, which found that loan default was by no means the same
thing as business failure, came to a similar conclusion. And as with SEP I, it is fair to say that CEP credits
contributed to a revival of private sector economic activities in rural areas, although other sources of
private, profit-seeking, capital also emerged along with the inputs of other agencies, including NGOs.

Much controversy surround this component. Considered simply as a credit operation, CEP did not meet any
reasonable standard of sustainability, with collection rates even in the most well-managed subunits well
below those considered necessary for sustainable microfinance (even apart from the issues of operating
costs and interest income). Both the Independent Review and the NCG Review found several problematic
areas in the revolving credit subcomponent. As noted above, a basic problem was the low level of
repayment, with implications for the continued availability of funds for "second round" and later relending
activities, thus potentially restricting the potential multiplier effect of the operation.

However, there were other problems raised by the Independent Review which relate to the impact of the
component beyond the activity itself. Primary among these are the potential effect of the activity on the
"credit culture"of Timor-Leste, the likely lack of positive institutional development impact, and the
difficulty of assessing the poverty impact of the activity. This merits further discussion below, but it is also
important to remember that the primary objective of this component was to deliver resources quickly to the
local level, not to establish a micro-finance system. The component appears to have been a substantial
success with respect to the former, while presenting some problems for the development of the latter.

Impacts on the `Credit Culture' of Timor-Leste
`Credit culture' is best described as the set of expectations within a community as to the behavior
appropriate for borrowers. It is the result of a complex set of incentives and disincentives acting upon
borrowers. These incentives and disincentives are created by the expectations and practices of lenders, the
legal environment in which lending is conducted, and the economic environment for investments financed
by credit. The Independent Review suggests that the revolving credit subcomponent may have had
unintended negative impacts on this credit culture for several reasons.

First, there were uncertainties and ambiguities concerning repayment as a project goal. The practices CEP
established with the UPKs in regard to record-keeping, collection and follow-up of arrears did not


                                                       - 25 -

encourage high repayment rates. Records were not produced in timely fashion, nor in a manner permitting
the analysis of trends in repayment, repayments were collected monthly (rather than weekly as in the case
of most microfinance lenders) and the schedule called for first payments to be made after a period of two or
more months grace period in many cases. Follow-ups do not seem to have been triggered until several
payments had been missed.

Most borrowing was also undertaken with no guarantees or offer of collateral, or with only informal
pledges of land or other property with no legal right of enforcement. This was complicated by the economic
environment, particularly the necessity to convert loan proceeds to rupiah which imposed capital losses on
borrowers and no doubt led to resentment, when the deflation of the urban `bubble economy' during 2002
had spread-on effects into the rural economy. Rescheduling does not seem to have commenced in CEP until
contracts had expired, whereas good practice would be to canvass this option at the point where the
borrower's difficulties had become obvious. And in a number of cases rescheduling had been agreed with
borrowers but repayment had either not resumed or had rapidly tailed off, once again raising questions
about the Project's will to enforce contracts.

The Independent Review believes that this series of factors in all probability actually retarded the
emergence of a good credit culture in rural Timor-Leste. The founder of one NGO microfinance
programme operating in Maliana and Cailako subdistricts wrote that `In terms of establishing a culture of
repayment, I think that the credit operations of CEP have made it more difficult for other microfinance
providers'.

By and large the task team does not support this interpretation. As with all of Eastern Indonesia prior to
Timorese Independence, East Timor did not have a pre-existing credit culture to destroy. CEP fit into a
pattern of subsidized transfers, but it didn't create it. No evidence exists to show that areas with high rates
of CEP revolving funds also have higher rates of microfinance default. By contrast, the benefit of getting
microfunds into the destroyed communities to recapitalize very small businesses were significant, especially
given that start-up for the "twinned" ADB microfinance project was delayed by nearly four years. CEP's
revolving program certainly could have been managed more rigorously and it should have been stopped
sooner, but the task team does not believe that the evidence shows that it never should have been included
in the first place.

Institutional Impact
There is little evidence of positive institutional development impact from the microfinance/revolving funds.
The model of credit allocation decisions being made by elected bodies, with disbursements and repayments
administered by officials in a non-commercial environment, was in any case the product of an emergency
situation. It is not a model which should continue to operate after normal economic activity has resumed
and the regulatory environment for a financial system has been put in place, since it cannot contribute to
renewal and expansion of the financial system. The experience did have the merit of demonstrating the
existence of effective demand for loans, albeit at the highly concessional interest rate of 10% per annum on
the reducing balance. There was also a minority of borrowers who had the beneficial experience of
employing borrowed capital productively and successfully servicing a loan. These individuals can be
recommended to other lenders. As well, individuals in UPKs and conselho probably benefited from the
experience of decision-making and administration in regard to credit.

There were isolated cases where UPKs and conselho, as institutions, appear to have performed creditably,
and these could provide the foundation for some further experiments in decentralized community revolving
funds, or the skills acquired can be employed in a different institutional setting. The PMU was relatively
isolated from Government. It will be unfortunate if lessons concerning the inability of governmental or


                                                       - 26 -

quasi-governmental agencies to manage credit are not communicated emphatically to the GoTL.

Poverty Impact
Finally, it is difficult to estimate the poverty impacts of the credit component. CEP credit did not set out to
target the poorest, as some microfinance institutions, including those conducting Grameen Bank
replications, have attempted to do in later phases. Timor-Leste suffered severe structural problems of
poverty. Other, non-credit, elements in CEP, and particularly those dealing with governance, were
concerned with laying foundations to address those structural problems. But the immediate consequences of
civil strife imposed poverty on an even larger proportion of the population, demonstrating the vulnerability
of many above the poverty line. Much of this larger poverty cohort was in principle amenable to relief
through immediate economic stimulus.

CEP credit probably did have an impact on reducing poverty as a result of injecting liquidity into rural
communities in parallel with their engagement in labour-intensive infrastructure works which injected
spending power into those same communities. A considerable amount of credit went to restoring the supply
of manufactured consumer goods and processed foods in subsistence agricultural communities where
production had been disrupted, and such a strategy also served the longer-term goal of encouraging a more
diversified local agricultural sector as well as relieving immediate shortages.

As with other components, the credit component includes no impact surveys which might suggest poverty
alleviation outcomes. A major deficiency in this regard is the failure to prepare gender-disaggregated
information concerning beneficiaries. This failure is difficult to justify in a project commencing in the year
2000 and which emphasized gender considerations in its design. It prevented the Project from forming any
conclusions about the impact of its credit on women, a group particularly vulnerable to poverty.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 2 are rated Unsatisfactory

4.2.3 Output of Subcomponent 3
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and education and health programmes in villages
through the provision of Sub-grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups in such villages.

This subcomponent has been discussed at some length above. As noted, during the first year of CEP I, this
sub-component was coordinated by Catholic Institute for International Relief (CIIR) which, unfortunately,
focused on data collection and did very little actual work in the field. When these problems became
apparent, the decision was made to transfer this activity to the PMU (as of March 2001), and the
gender-unit there was restructured to become the PPMV (Programme Pembedayaan Masyarakat
Vulnerable/Programme for Empowerment of Vulnerable Groups). A manual was produced for the Special
Facilitators (FK, Fasilitator Khusus) that were selected in each village. As a result of these initial
administrative difficulties, this component did not begin implementation until later than expected, and the
results have therefore been disappointing. However, at the time of the review mission the programme was
beginning to operate, and by late 2003 it was in operation in 68 villages with groups of widows with a fund
allocation of UDS 1000 per village intended for income generating investment as a revolving fund (from the
CEP II grant). The CEP II has an allocation of USD 950,000 for this sub-component and the PMU plans
to expand to all 13 districts.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 3 are rated Unsatisfactory.

4.2.4 Output of Subcomponent 4
Strengthening of Coselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the provision of technical


                                                      - 27 -

assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and related materials.

The CEP had a technical facilitator in each district. During the first cycle the shortage of staff combined
with the speed of implementation meant that not all villages and sub-districts were provided with adequate
technical assistance. This improved during the second cycle, but the number of villages per district and
difficulties in transportation meant that implementation was still difficult. No vehicles were ever provided
to the councils. During 2000 the CEP provided furniture and typewriters to every sub-district. In addition
5% of the total sub-grant was set a side for administrative purposes including; (i) furniture, (ii) office
equipment and stationary and, (iii) transport and per diem on meeting days. Of this budget sub-district
councils received 2% and village councils received 3%. Total administrative budget for both cycles amount
to USD 279,535.

Assuming the budget was distributed evenly each sub-district council received USD 1860 and each
villagecouncil USD 400. It is reported that the concept of administrative costs was not well understood,
especially in the initial cycle, and that many examples exist of councils considering the amount as wage to
be divided between the members. No records exist at PMU level for the expenditure of the administrative
budget.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 4 are rated Satisfactory.

4.2.5 Output of Subcomponent 5
Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco, Conselho do Posto and local
leaders.

The training capacity of the PMU staff was continuously stretched by the combination of the large
geographical scope and the increased pace of implementation. This led to cancellation of part of the
training. The training material produced by the CEP PMU is fairly complex and includes (i) a sub-district
facilitator's manual, (ii) a trainer's guide for sub-district facilitator training, (iii) a village development
council manual, (iv) a sub-district development council manual, (v) a technical manual, and (vi) a manual
for empowerment. Though the project sought to simplify procedures wherever possible, this volume and
complexity of manuals and administrative procedures often seemed intimidating to those at the local level.

Training was done by a cascade model where central PMU staff trained the village facilitators, who
transferred their acquired skills to the councils through in situ training between the various phases of a
cycle. Councils were again expected to pass their skills to community leaders and groups. While this model
is effective in terms of covering a wide geographical scope, it has been questioned whether the facilitators
were given sufficient training before their initial deployment in the field, and whether most councils were
able to develop sufficient skills to transfer useful knowledge to community groups and village leaders.
Early sensitization seems to have received more attention than the followup training. A number of local
leaders indicated that they were involved in sensitization of the project, but received little further training.

Training of councils did not focus on public administration per se, but rather on priority skills for the
project cycle, including (i) participatory analysis, (ii) facilitation, (iii) planning, as well as (iv) the specific
procedures and regulations of the CEP. Treasurers, and especially UPK, received more in-depth training in
accounting during the second cycle. Lessons learnt were to some extent used to revise the training
programme. Other training models, including experience sharing and visits to `successful' village and
sub-district councils, were finally established in the last year of the project, and several were undertaken
successfully though never to the extent originally envisioned. Some council members expressed concern
that the training was very topical and narrow, and that the number of short and focused sessions made it


                                                       - 28 -

difficult to grasp the content. They felt a need of a longer and more coherent programme. At the same time,
all council members interviewed during the review mission expressed appreciation that practice and the
training had increased their capacity to plan and administer the project.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 5 are rated Satisfactory.

4.2.6 Output of Subcomponent 6
Provision of financial advisors to district administration.

UNTAET District Financial Officers (DFO) only became functional well into the project. The project
continued to be hampered by the absence of a PCFO. CEP PMU District Project Accountants (DPA) were
trained and put in place in each district after first cycle disbursements. This personnel, with the support
from the PMU, effectively handed the relations to the district administration, financial disbursements,
financial accounts and training of sub-district and district councils. The direct handling of funds was
supposed to be an interim measure until UNTAET was ready to integrate disbursements into their system,
but lasted well into the second cycle. Training of village treasurers was almost entirely absent in the first
cycle, and in the second phase insufficient to handle the more complex procedures of revolving funds

After the PMU's reorganization in Aug 2003, CEP's new CFO worked with Treasury to establish a regular
process for GOTL disbursement of funds to the districts. Treasury was responsible for the appropriate
handover to the UPKs. This basic treasury function worked well, and was an important development for
the GOTL's financial management mechanisms outside of Dili. Unfortunately, this also became the most
significant weakness in governance and several district treasury officers stole large amounts of community
funds ($20-25K in each incident). Even though they were caught, the GOTL has been extremely weak in
following up these cases (they are still pending action). This seriously jeopardizes any level of trust that
has been built between communities and local government.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 6 are rated Unsatisfactory.

4.2.7 Output of Subcomponent 7
Monitoring of the Project's impact on poverty in the Project Sub-Districts, including provision of related
technical assistance.

There has been no monitoring of the poverty impact in the sub-districts and no technical assistance in this
field except the training of the district facilitators in how to apply rapid rural appraisals of the needs in the
villages.

Overall the outputs of Subcomponent 7 are rated Unknown.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
None

4.4 Financial rate of return:
None

4.5 Institutional development impact:
None




                                                        - 29 -

_______________________________________
ENDNOTES:

 1. For a more detailed description of the qualifications required for candidates, please cf. Regulation 2000/13).
 2. For an extensive discussion of the election process and its results, please see Counciling Democracy in East
    Timor. The Consehlo do Suco Election Process within the Community Empowerment and Local Governance
    Project. CEP Project Report, September 2000.
 3. Ibid.
 4. Ibid. p.11.
 5. Another survey shows that in the areas with high acclamation rates people tended to select traditional leaders
    and older representatives, whereas in areas with lower acclamation rates younger and better educated people
    were chosen. See Ospina and Hohe, September 2001.
 6. This observation confirms the survey of Ospina and Hohe, which found that 90% of the council members had
    at least primary school education, although in the most remote areas even primary education was lacking and
    most members were functionally illiterate.
 7. The funds were disbursed on a 50/40/10 % basis, each disbursement requiring the certified (by CEP staff) use
    of the previously received funds. The transfers now take place through the national treasurers office, to the
    district and sub-district administrations, but since there are no banks operating at these level, the funds have to
    be brought in cash with police escort every two weeks, and this process is sometimes delayed.
 8. Ospina and Hohe, September 2001.
 9. Lista Naran Conselho Do Suco. Iha Timor Leste, Ano 2003. By CEP.
10. Counciling Democracy in East Timor. The Consehlo do Suco election process within the Community
    Empowerment and Local Governance Project. CEP Project Report, September 2000.
11. Of the villages visited by the Independent Review mission (data recorded from 20 villages from 7sub-districts)
    the decline in council participation ranged from 0% to 67% with an average of 28%. The decline in
    participation of women ranged from 0% to 86%, the average being 45%.
12. The annual GNP growth for 1999 is estimated as minus 35.4 percentage by the World Bank based on data
    provided by UNTAET, Indonesian authorities, and IMF estimates. East Timor Policy Challenges for a New
    Nation, World Bank, May 2002, p.9.
13. This and the following data are from the report Timor­Leste: Poverty in a New Nation: Analysis for Action.
    By GOTL, ADB, JICA, UNDP, Unicef, UMNISET, WB. May 2003.
14. A total of 5% of the project budget went to the operation of the sub-district council (2%) and the village
    councils (3%).
15. As the CEP project was approaching its final months, a deadline for submitting proposals was set to
    September 30th, a deadline that 10 sub-district and 4 DCDC did not manage to meet. 25% of the PPMV
    allocation is for the DCDC.
16. The PMU does not have a break down of the beneficiaries of village sub-grants. The conclusion is based on
    field observation and interviews with direct beneficiaries. 22% of the community grants have been allocated to
    "social housing" which entails the provision of corrugated iron roofs and nails to selected households.
17. Data from PMU.




                                                         - 30 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The key factor affecting implementation was the environment in which the CEP was initially implemented.
This was characterized by a generally traumatized and uncertain population, low levels of infrastructure,
communication and skilled personnel at district level and below, a centralized administration with little
capacity at district level and below, virtually no public service delivery at sub-district level and below, and
a near-total absence of local governance structures or of formal avenues for expression of local
governance. All of these factors had a major impact on project implementation.

Community councils and local governance

The formation of community councils, and the concurrent attempts to improve ­ even create ­ local
governance were deeply influenced by the above factors. This meant that many compromises had to be
made in order to ensure timely and effective intervention. Some of these compromises would have the
effect of limiting the longer terms sustainability and potential positive impact of project activities, but in
most cases a strong argument can be made that the demands of the moment justified the approaches taken.

Most of the issues discussed here should not be seen as either positive or negative, but rather as illustrating
the trade-offs and decisions which had to be made relatively quickly in the field if the core intent of
improving the lives of the majority of the population was to be achieved. Some issues include:

The formation of the village councils had to be done in the context of already existing authority and power
structures. The main sources of authority, in the near absence of formal governmental authority, were the
CNRT and the traditional leadership and decision-making structures. Both of these sources of
power/authority were engaged by the project, and, in general, were successfully enlisted in support of the
basic project objectives, including establishment of the VDCs. This has had several consequences:
    l The 50/50 gender representation would not have been possible without the active support of
         CNRT, but the trade off has been that CNRT influenced who could be elected to the councils.
         This should be seen in the light of the fact that the CNRT had a very high degree of legitimacy
         among the vast majority of the population.
    l The absence of formal government structures meant that traditional leadership was particularly
         important and influential. Almost all VDCs worked closely with, and in most cases integrated
         representatives of, traditional leadership. There has been strong support among traditional leaders
         for the activities of the project. The trade off has been that traditional decisionmaking processes
         are based on achieving consensus, and are not necessarily democratic in nature.
    l The general lack of formal governmental structures, particularly in the initial phases, has meant a
         trade off between establishing local governance structures quickly and the possibility of linking
         them to a formal government administration. This, as we have seen, has had consequences for the
         longer term relations between VDCs and formal structures.

The speed with which the councils were formed and were asked to assume decision-making roles meant that
initially they had very little real capacity for identifying needs, and preparing proposals for development
activities. The project attempted to compensate for this in the emergency assistance phase, but failed in
many respects to follow up and provide the additional capacity building necessary for later cycles. This
meant that many councils continued to suffer from low capacity levels in later phases of the project.



                                                        - 31 -

Though some training was provided to the council members, additional training such as leadership,
participatory needs assessment, how to approach district government, how to make proposals for other
NGOs, gender sensitivity training, and training in monitoring and evaluation would have increased
motivation and capacity.

Longer term involvement of council members is proving problematic. Overall involvement of the council
members has been declining due to the logistic difficulties in attending meetings in some location, low
compensation for transportation, and high opportunity costs for participation. Women have had more
difficulties than men in attending and actively participating in the council meetings due to local perceptions
about gender roles. Laudable attempts have been made to improve the participation of women by
arranging pre-meetings with women council members, but this has not been done consistently or for a long
enough period.

Project strategies for information and accountability have been weakened because of the low educational,
and high illiteracy levels of the population. This has made it difficult for many to make full use of notice
boards, complaint boxes and other sources of redress or information. Many councils have developed fairly
effective mechanisms to deal with these problems, such as frequent public meetings and the use of church
gatherings as a venue for information dissemination

Project designs have sometimes suffered because of the limited funds available and the inconsistent level of
skills available locally.

Civil Engineering works

Overall, the Civil Engineering components of the project have performed at or above expectations.
Nonetheless, there are still some issues which appear to have limited the potential impact of these activities.

First, limits in the funds available to each village seems to have restricted the kinds projects proposed. In
some cases communities supplemented those resources with a voluntary community contribution in labour
or kind ("padat karya") to extend the benefit of the funded component. A second effect of limited funds
was the (in some ways laudable) belief that corners had to be cut with respect to cost of materials, and this
may well affect longer term sustainability. This seems to have been especially relevant in the water
projects. Finally, limited access to necessary equipment ­ especially construction equipment ­ has
prevented or compromised implementation of some projects. E.g., a major bridge planned for one of the
road projects has suffered from lack of availability of concrete mixers which would both improve quality
and save time of production.

There has been considerable variation in the skill levels of the facilitators, particularly with respect to
practical construction experience. Where the facilitators had the field experience and a pragmatic
approach, projects seem to have been better implemented, with likely positive consequences for long term
sustainability. More consistent training of facilitators would probably have resulted in better long term
outcomes.

Revolving Funds

The credit component has been both a success and a potential source of longer term problems. With
respect to providing resources quickly for the local level at a time when food shortages and transportation
difficulties presented real threats to the population, the component was a success. In terms of the longer
term prospects for the development of an efficient credit culture in the country, the component probably


                                                      - 32 -

presents some difficulties.

Factors which have limited the possible longer term impact of the revolving funds include:

     i. A key weakness was the utilization of groups as the basic unit of organization for credit. This
         ignored the fact that the basic unit of economic activity in the communities served by CEP credit
         was the household. The result was that many of the `groups' formed for CEP credit were
         essentially fictions and did not actually constitute cohesive or coherent units. Many ­ perhaps
         most ­ ended up simply being fronts for the operations of individuals. This led to serious problems
         with respect to repayment or the sharing of accountability by the groups that were supposed to be
         responsible for loans.
    ii. Basic training to enable the borrowers and councils to effectively manage the loan and repayment
         process was very slow in coming. Clear definition and explanation of procedures and the training
         for their implementation lagged badly behind implementation. E.g., the first financial management
         manual with a section on credit appeared only in mid-2002, when some three-quarters of initial
         lending had already been completed. In general, training to manage credit operations consistently
         had a lower priority than training for general financial management, and the staffs of UPKs, who
         form the first line of administration and reporting for credit, were particularly neglected in this
         regard. There was also little appreciation of the importance of data collection and analysis for
         programme management, and this extended to the higher levels of the PMU.
    iii. The approach to repayment has been a consistent problem for the credit aspects of the project. As
         noted elsewhere in this report, there were uncertainties concerning the need and schedules for
         repayment which were never effectively resolved during implementation, and ultimately repayment
         rates will probably not exceed 40% This was partly the result of external factors, such as the
         instability of exchange rates and the macro economy in 2001-2002, which were beyond the control
         of the project. However, there were also serious internal problems, largely flowing from a lack of
         expertise leading to poor programme design, inadequate skills in the UPKs and at other levels to
         manage the programme, and poor overall monitoring of the progress of the programme during
         implementation.

Income Generating Investment Projects through Provision of Sub-grants to Highly Vulnerable
Groups.
The Primary factor affecting effective implementation of this component was the initial utilization of the
Catholic Institute for International Relief as the coordinating agency for implementation. The CIIR
concentrated heavily on data collection and related activities and, as a result, did little actual
implementation. Therefore, implementation of the activity was seriously delayed. However, by the end of
CEP I the project implementation had improved considerably, and this improved further during CEP II,
though the issue of sufficient attention by local councils (given the relatively low amounts involved)
continued to be a problem.

Strengthening of Coselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the provision of technical
assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and related materials. Implementation of this
component suffered from the slow provision of technical staff in the field, and particularly from a failure to
provide villages and sub-districts with the needed technical assistance. This gradually improved through the
course of project implementation, but the lack of vehicles and continued shortages of sufficient technical
staff meant that there has never been sufficient technical assistance to the Conselho do Sucos or Conselho
do Postos. This should be an important consideration in operations implemented in a post-conflict
environment, in that the lack of technically qualified staff in such an environment may put the entire
operation at risk. This needs to be clearly addressed in project design, and all possible steps should be


                                                     - 33 -

taken to ensure that properly qualified staff are made available.

Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco, Conselho do Posto and local
leaders.
There were several issues which compromised the effectiveness of implementation of this component. Part
of the training was cancelled because the PMU staff was insufficient to cover the needs, both
geographically and in terms of the speed with which implementation was scheduled. There was also a
problem with the sheer volume and complexity of the training material. Given the large numbers of village
facilitators, there were understandable problems with variable skill levels and, therefore, with their ability
to pass skills on to the councils. Overall, however, most councils were able to master at least the basic
skills and passed on useful knowledge to others at the community level. In sum, many felt that a longer and
more consistent programme of training would have been useful, but that, given time and personnel
constraints, some useful skills had been transferred which improved performance overall. Perhaps the most
important contribution of the project in the area of public administration has been in the establishment of
basic administrative principles in the regions. For example, the team of consultants working with the
GoTL to design local government structures commented that it was a remarkable achievement that local
leaders all had a pretty good grasp of the principle of getting 3 price quotes.

Provision of financial advisors s to district administration
This component did not really become operative until well into the project implementation phase. Much of
the problem was the failure to successfully recruit and/or train a PCFO for the project as a whole, and this
was partially reflected in the failure to recruit and place District Financial Officers in a timely fashion.
Village treasurers were not trained during the first cycle, and even in the second cycle they were not placed
in all villages and their training was, in some cases, insufficient to enable them to carry out their assigned
tasks.

Monitoring of the Project's impact on poverty in the project sub-districts, including provision of
related technical assistance.
This activity was not carried out during implementation of CEP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
     None

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
     None

5.4 Costs and financing:
None

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project can be evaluated against the three objectives: (i) local capacity to plan and
implement development decisions, (ii) infrastructure improvements, and (iii) productive economic activities
initiated under the revolving credit scheme.

Sustainability of local capacity and governance

Overall there is little doubt that the capacity of the members of the development councils has increased and


                                                       - 34 -

that this will be a benefit for the village if it can be used constructively in the future local government or
civil society. However, the extent to which this capacity is distributed across the villages of the country is
variable, and many have expressed the feeling that training could have been improved and that additional
training would be of benefit.

The real key to sustainability of local level capacity is the degree to which this capacity is brought into
direct contact with the future structures of local and district level governance. There is considerable
capacity which has been developed under the project, and this should be utilized by linking it directly to the
emerging formal structures at these levels. The only formalized linking between the government structure
and the CEP beyond the village level is the District Community Development Committees (DCDC)
currently being formed and where monthly meetings between district administration, active NGOs and
sub-district council representatives are held. This points towards the possibility of some long-term impact
in terms of establishing institutionalised channels and the transferring of experiences. However, at the
conclusion of CEP I the links between these institutions were, at best, tenuous.

The most positive element contributing to sustainability is the experience that the communities have of
being able to establish priorities and control the use of funds, including the mechanisms for transparency
and accountability that were built into the CEP project. There is a strong wish among the villagers to use
this influence and see these checks applied in the future towards other projects, whether funded by the
government, donors or from other sources. How far this will be made possible depends not only on the
villagers and the village councils, but to a high degree on the approach of the government and the
international community towards community driven development projects and the extent of effective fiscal
decentralization. In other words, if the districts don't have funds of their own to spend, the
effectiveness of mechanisms of accountability and transparency make little difference.

Sustainability of the infrastructure projects

The most important aspect of sustainability with respect to infrastructure improvements concerns
operations and maintenance provisions. Considerable improvements have been made in infrastructure at
the local level thanks to the project, but it is unclear the extent to which these improvements will be
maintained. There is a need to implement a system which will ensure maintenance. The Independent
Review recommends that users make regular contributions to a fund which can be used to provide
necessary maintenance. In each village a responsible person could be designated to take responsibility for
collection and allocation of funds, and for managing maintenance of the new assets. Appropriate and
timely maintenance will assist in ensuring the sustainability and continuity of what have been, in the main,
well planned and implemented projects.

The project has already begun to establish village based O&M units (Kelompok Pemeliharaan), and this is
a positive step towards sustainability According to the PMU, a total of 166 committees have been
established for water and sanitation projects. Additional training and guidance could usefully be provided
for these committees, as it appears that in many instances the committees have been formed but have yet to
become engaged in significant maintenance activities. Reportedly, maintenance work is more consistently
performed in the irrigation sector because the farmers themselves are the losers if the water is not flowing,
and hence the commitment to maintenance is stronger. It may also be that women who have an interest in
local clean water systems have a strong commitment to seeing those systems maintained, but there has been
no direct evidence collected to date to confirm this.




                                                        - 35 -

Sustainability of revolving funds

The main issue with respect to sustainability of the revolving funds is the extent to which the activity has
been effectively constituted as a self-sustaining financial process. Off the best evidence so far, this has not
been the case. As noted, probably less than 40% of loans are likely to be repaid, which is a loan loss rate
of 60%, clearly not a recipe for sustainability. Even relatively well performing sub-districts would exhaust
their capital after just a few rounds of lending at current levels of performance, and this does not count the
costs incurred by the PMU and the expenses and allowances of UPKs and council members.

A general rule of thumb is that for an MFI to be sustainable it would have to charge interest rates at least
two or three times as high as the 10% (reducing balance) rate levied on CEP credit; even more if an
imputed cost of funds were applied to the capital employed. As the CEP revolving funds are not
sustainable in a financial sense, the primary objective should perhaps have been to get money out quickly to
those best able to use it in the `generation of productive economic activities'. Simple grants might have
been better options for this immediate purpose.

There is also the issue of the impact of the activity on the sustainability of a "credit culture" in
Timor-Leste, and it is possible some damage has been done, a finding of the Independent Review.
However, this is not at all clear. There is no evidende that villages that have failed to manage their CEP
revolving funds are now more problematic performers in real microfinance programs and that non-CEP
credit areas are now better microfinance performers. Such comparative work would be useful, particularly
given the very patchy performance of the Indonesian government's farm and other credit schemes which
frequently involve periodic forgiveness of debts, calling into question the vitality of the "credit culture" in
the country to begin with.

This also needs to be weighed against the utility and sustainability of the economic activities financed.
However, the Independent Review found that, given that the great majority of loan-recipients were in
arrears, the PMU had difficulty estimating the degree to which the businesses concerned were viable and
active. The sample of borrowers visited by the Independent Review mission revealed, however, that a clear
majority of the businesses were still operating and it is fair to say that the CEP credits contributed to a
revival of private sector economic activities in rural areas.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
None

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

IDA performance

The performance of the Bank needs to be assessed in recognition that it worked under difficult and rapidly
changing circumstances. The grants agreement for CEP I had UNTAET as the recipient (this was changed
to the East Timor Public Administration for CEP III, following full establishment of the Timor-Leste
Government). There were a number of discussions between UNTAET and the Bank concerning design and
objectives/priorities of the project. To some extent, this is one of the factors behind the ongoing difficulties
in integrating the activities and structures of CEP into the emerging Timorese governmental structures at all
levels. As noted several times, the felt urgency for immediate action to provide resources and support to
the local level forced the Bank, and the emerging GOTL, into accepting certain tradeoffs between dealing


                                                      - 36 -

with an emergency situation and waiting to act until the outlines of the emerging governmental structures
became more clear. There is a clear case for the choice made to move quickly to meet the circumstances of
the emergency situation on a virtually nationwide basis, a choice which the Bank made early on. However,
it should be emphasized that the project never managed to demonstrate enough flexibility to adapt to the
rapidly changing political environment.

A focus of contention between UNTAET and the Bank was over the degree of control to be exercised over
the CEP councils by the emerging district administration. UNTAET felt strongly that the councils should
be controlled by that administration, while the Bank maintained that, at least in the short term, the emerging
administration was too weak to provide effective leadership, and that this would slow implementation to an
unacceptable extent. UNTAET had several other objections to the design of CEP, including:
      i. CEP was designed with insufficient input from UNTAET;
     ii. At the time of design and implementation of the project the UNTAET mandate was still unclear;
         therefore the decision to create specific local governance structures would pre-empt later decisions
         concerning such structures;
    iii. UNTAET district administrators lacked a budget for social service delivery and they argued that
         part of the funding should be directed through the district administration (although, in fact, the
         original CEP design included funds for District Administration to implement activities, but
         UNTAET insisted originally on removing that requirement)
    iv. There were diverging opinions on the need for central control and supervision of disbursements,
         and,
     v. UNTAET felt there was a lack of sufficient information and capacity to estimate the possible
         impact and sustainability of the project.

It is clear that UNTAET came under increasing pressure from a number of avenues, including the CNRT
leadership, to agree to the rapid implementation of CEP. To a great extent, this was a result of the success
of the Bank strategy of fully engaging the CNRT at the local and district levels. UNTAET became
increasingly aware that its legitimacy was closely connected to the ability to provide emergency assistance
on a country-wide basis, and the CEP was by far the most advanced available option for providing such
assistance. Agreement on rapid implementation was finally reached with the intervention of the Secretary
General of the United Nations and the President of the World Bank. However, there is little doubt that
disagreements and misunderstandings continued to characterize the relationship between the project and
UNTAET throughout implementation. The perceived (on the part of project staff) lack of commitment to
the project on the part of UNTAET is often cited as one reason for many of the problems faced by the
project throughout implementation.

Originally ­ as per a condition in the grant agreement ­ the PMU was intended to be located within
UNTAET. However, by March of 2000 it was clear UNTAET lacked the capacity to operate and manage
the project, and the decision was made to place the PMU outside the regular government structure. Overall
managerial responsibility remained with UNTAET, but was situated in the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA),
outside what could be considered the regular administrative and decision-making structure, which posed
problems for "mainstreaming" CEP activities. Subsequently the PMU was shifted to the Office of District
Affairs (ODA), and in July 2000 the first transitional cabinet (ETTA) composed of Timorese nationals was
established and ODA (and, by extension the PMU) began reporting to the Minister of Territorial
Administration (MoTA). In September 2001 the Second Transitional Government of Timor (EPTA) was
created transferring more powers to Timorese nationals and the ODA was restructured into the
Administration for Local Government and Development (ALDG).

This was clearly a period of administrative uncertainty and rapid change, and posed serious challenges for


                                                      - 37 -

the smooth implementation of the project, particularly given the need to respond rapidly to an emergency
situation on the ground. Overall, the Bank and task team are to be commended for a high level of
commitment ­ and in some cases extraordinary effort ­ in responding with both speed and flexibility to
provide guidance and resources to ensure the CEP was able to continue to implement and meet its
objectives.

A key problem throughout CEP's implementation was that government management was, at best,
inconsistent and, at worst, chaotic. After management passed from UNTAET to government the project
was directly supervised by no less than five ministers over three years, most of whom neither fully
understood the intents of the project nor took the time to learn about how it was being implemented. While
the Independent Review questions whether the Bank was sufficiently proactive in seeking to identify and
build capacity to effectively devolve those responsibilities and withdraw to a more supervisory role, the
reality appears to be that there was no effective management body or structure to which such
responsibilities could effectively be devolved. Given the uncertainties and fluidity of the situation, it seems
understandable to have erred on the side of more, rather than less, involvement.

The ability to devolve responsibilities was complicated by two factors. First, the lack of strong
commitment on the part of UNTAET at the start of the project made strong Bank involvement and
guidance necessary. Second, the relationship between the project and the rapidly emerging Timorese
governmental structures also was subject to misunderstandings and problems, and this required continual
strong involvement on the part of the Bank. Partly because of this, and partly because of the sheer volume
and scope of demands on the time of the emerging structures, neither ETTA nor ETPA became fully
operationally engaged in the administration and implementation of CEP activities and no political authority
(either UNTAET or the emerging Timorese structures) established a continuous presence in, or familiarity
with the CEP. This was probably complicated by a misunderstanding on the part of ETTA and ETPA
concerning the fungibility ( or lack thereof) of project resources, particularly with respect to the inability to
use resources to build capacity in ETTA/ETPA (which became a source of tension between ETTA/ETPA
and the Bank). There was also some disaffection on the part of ETTA/ETPA with the fact that the PMU
was effectively functioning as a satellite outside the emerging government.

The view of ETTA/ETPA is that they were never given sufficient information to; (i) take effective
administrative actions, (ii) evaluate the impact of the CEP disbursements, and (iii) deal with complaints
arising at community level. Both UNTAET and ETTA/ETPA raised with the Independent Review mission
their feeling that the lack of independent feasibility studies and evaluation of project performance impeded
the level of transparency. This is valid to some degree, but is also a result of the relative weight given to
immediate action as opposed to the articulation of the structures under CEP with the emerging Timorese
structures. This made the expectation that the institutional structures developed under CEP would become
sustainable through their incorporation into the regular budget and administrative structures of the
post-transition government problematic at best.

The fluid political situation, with rapid changes in structures and responsibilities, varying levels of capacity
among the key stakeholders, and the imperative for early and effective response to an emergency situation
inevitably led to disagreements and to different expectations on the part of the key stakeholders. The
Independent Review suggests that, in retrospect, an option might have been to create a strong steering
committee with representatives of the main stakeholders and relevant line ministries with the mandate to
control the CEP within the framework of the grant agreement. In any event, it is clear relations among
stakeholders were clearly not optimal, and this is a weakness of the design and implementation of the
project, but the project also was able to deliver much needed resources and skills which had a major impact
on improving lives of many thousands of Timorese at the local level, and this should not be underestimated


                                                      - 38 -

as a solid achievement.

With specific regard to the credit component, the Bank ­ in difficult circumstances after the events of late
1999 ­ developed a mechanism in which lending for economic activities was grafted on to a
community-based grant mechanism, making use of the pre-existing framework and procedures of the KDP.
As an emergency response the project showed resourcefulness, although perhaps too much reliance was
placed on generalist staff for project preparation, where specialist inputs could have been justified. The
result was a set of activities in which there were elements of internal inconsistency.

One inconsistency was that the complex task of establishing local governance structures involved some
confusion between goals and instruments. The governance structure was not an instrument in achieving
credit goals, rather it was a goal in its own right and therefore not necessarily optimal for the achievement
of credit objectives. In addition, a number of operational practices in the credit component fell well short of
established good practice. These flaws appear traceable to design `on the run' by generalists during the first
year of operation, in 2000. There is an important question whether the introduction of credit was premature
in the immediate post-conflict environment. This was the conclusion reached by the Bank's Implementation
Completion Report for the SEP I project and much the same conclusion could be reached in the case of
CEP credit. However, it is worth noting that both the JAM and the WB board discussion highlighted the
importance of including credit within CEP.

7.2 Supervision:
The IDA Task Team's supervision of CEP gave varying degrees of attention to credit. Periodic financial
management reviews occurred and these also devoted some attention to the administration of credit and
repayment. However, there appears to have been less specialized attention paid to the credit than to other
components of the project. Indeed, prior to the mid-term review in August 2001, which was the occasion of
a detailed review of the credit component, no financial sector or microfinance specialist appears to have
participated in any IDA mission, and this review occurred after first round lending had been substantially
completed. Hence its focus was primarily on repayment and recycling issues and on strategies for the
eventual transition of CEP borrowers to orthodox sources of microfinance. There is therefore a question as
to the timeliness of IDA supervision inputs to the credit component. Earlier intervention by a microfinance
specialist, perhaps late in 2000 when the lack of preparation for credit operations was becoming apparent,
could have had beneficial impact on lending operations.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance on the credit component was subpar and could have been improved in a
number of ways at a number of junctures.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
None

7.5 Government implementation performance:

There are clearly difficulties in assessing the performance of the GoTL, given that there was effectively no
government at the start of the project, and during the course of implementation government structures were
steadily emerging and undergoing at time radical transformations. As the first IDA project to commence
under the Trust Fund arrangements, the project was initially implemented by CAA/Oxfam under contract
to UNTAET, and subsequently by a PMU. Government responsibility passed from UNTAET to the
Ministry of Internal Administration, and more recently to the Ministry of State Administration (Division of



                                                      - 39 -

Territorial Administration and Local government).

The fact that the PMU was established prior to the establishment of formal GoTL structures, and had
developed working procedures and arrangements in the context of an emergency situation, meant that
relations between the project and government were continually evolving. In general, working relationships
between GoTL and the PMU have not been close, and it is not clear how well-informed Government has
been about the overall programme. The PMU has lacked expertise in financial and, especially, credit
management from the beginning of CEP I and this contributed to its failure to design and implement
adequate systems and records.

The appointment of an international Chief Financial Officer (CFO) was delayed until December 2000,
when the UNTAET-appointed Finance Manager was promoted to the job. Primary attention appears to
have been given to the community subgrants component of the project, probably understandable given that
it was by far the dominant component. However, this meant that the credit component was somewhat
ignored, and in fact a financial management manual for the project with procedures for credit did not
appear until mid-2002, after initial lending had been substantially completed.

In January 2002 the possibility of appointing the Timorese Deputy CFO to the post was considered and
rejected. The World Bank financial management specialist recommended instead the early appointment of
an expatriate successor to the CFO to permit a minimum three to four month overlap with the departing
CFO. This time would have been used to design improved financial management systems for UPKs,
including for credit operations, which the Bank's financial management specialist regarded as an urgent
priority. In the event, the appointment was not made until late July 2002. The overlap between the
appointee and his predecessor, which might have permitted these objectives to be secured, was not
achieved.

As already noted above, the primary problem with respect to full engagement of the GoTL in the project
had to do with the fact that formal governmental structures were only just being formed during most of the
implementation phase of CEP I. This, along with the multitude of other demands on the emerging
structures, meant there was little realistic hope that the GoTL would be able to become fully familiar with
and take full control of the project. The general lack of engagement of government probably did not hamper
the immediate goals of the project, but did point to major issues which had to be addressed in CEPII and
CEPIII. Those issues have been addressed with variable success, but this continues to be an area of
concern for longer term sustainability of project outcomes.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
None

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

The project provides a number of lessons of relevance to future operations in Timor-Leste and to
operations in other post-conflict situations. These lessons are especially important in three areas: local
governance and institutional development (including with regard to the role of women), project management
and the relations with the GoTL, and the revolving funds.




                                                      - 40 -

8.1 Local Governance and Institutional Development

There are several lessons with regard to the local governance, most of them reflecting the trade off between
need to deliver services and resources quickly, and the sustainability and participatory nature of institution
building at the local and national level.

8.1.1 Overall lessons with respect to institution building:

    1. It is possible to form locally elected village councils even in a post-conflict situation provided the
        actual local power holders are in support of the effort.
    2. Gender equity in the form of a 50/50 representation of men and women on elected village councils
        can be formalized, again provided there is active support of local power holders. It can be
        accepted as an aspect of introducing democracy even in a society with little tradition of public
        representative roles for women.
    3. When formal and informal power holders are not included in elected project implementing bodies,
        their role needs to be clearly defined to clarify authority and division of labour and to make their
        involvement transparent and public. It is not possible or advisable to sideline traditional and local
        authorities in a post-conflict situation, where there are no legitimate alternative authorities
        established.
    4. When such roles are not formally introduced, villagers will find operational modes to accommodate
        the realities of local politics, and these modalities may or may not be conducive for local
        governance. It is best to recognize the important role of local power holders and explicitly and
        clearly integrate them into the process.
    5. The lack of governmental presence at local levels in the post-conflict situation requires that careful
        thought be given to how local level institutional development can be related, to the extent possible,
        to later emerging administrative or representative structures in order to avoid competing
        authorities, side-lining of local non-governmental institutions developed, or wasting capacity and
        skills developed at the local level which could be of value to the emerging formal structures.
    6. For the emerging governmental structures to be able to adapt to and constructively engage such
        non-governmental institutions in future development processes, it is recommended that
        consultations take place both at the national and local levels as a continuous process.
    7. To facilitate the continued function of the established village councils after the project period, the
        concept and functions of the councils need to be accepted within the international donor
        community.
    8. Salary structures of PMU consultants need to be carefully aligned with national government salary
        structures in order not to cause undue resentment and allow for more constructive engagement.

8.1.2 At the village council level:
    1. Even when the need to deliver services quickly in an emergency situation results in less than
        optimal building local capacity to undertake needs assessment and planning, it is possible to entrust
        the management of funds to local communities.
    2. Local capacity building should remain a priority throughout a project, particularly with regard to
        regular leadership training, gender sensitivity training, and training in participatory needs
        assessment and project planning.
    3. Given relatively low literacy rates (about 50%) and generally poor educational levels, local
        communities need the support of facilitators to formulate project proposals. Linking such
        facilitators to the emerging governmental administration could ensure that communities are
        facilitated beyond the project period and develop skills for approaching the local government as


                                                     - 41 -

       well as other donors.
    4. The low literacy rate inhibits transparency unless alternative ways to inform the communities are
       developed. Public meetings and church assemblies have been proven more successful than
       complaint boxes and information boards.
    5. The local communities are able to make realistic and poverty reduction oriented choices for use of
       funds even with very general guidelines from the project and "open menus". The trade off between
       local governance and poverty focus (in terms of reaching the poorer segments of the communities)
       appears to be low and generally equitable.
    6. When local decision-making processes are based on consensus and avoidance of open disagreement
       and conflicts, introducing a "one man one vote" democracy may not be feasible. Instead,
       decision-making processes based on mutual appreciation and conciliation can be institutionalised in
       a transparent manner, provided there are clear guidelines and training for the participants.

8.1.3 The role of women:
    1. Women face greater challenges than men in participating in development projects and village
       councils, both in terms of traditional notions of their public roles and in terms of the opportunity
       costs with respect to their domestic work. This needs to be addressed throughout the project in the
       form of a strategy to enable gender-balanced participation. In this context the structure of the
       selection method becomes critical.
    2. Arranging meetings with women only before public meetings support the women in taking an
       active role in the latter. Investing in local gender facilitators may ensure that this practice is
       maintained beyond the initial phase of the project.
    3. The participation of women in the decision-making process decreases over time at a faster rate than
       that of men. Special measures will be required to ensure the continued participation of women,
       such as transportation compensation.
    4. It is important to keep the women in the mainstream of the development process and not sideline
       women to specific gender related activities. The establishment of one development council rather
       than several bodies in the community has promoted the mainstreaming of women in community
       development.
    5. Gender disaggregating project data is a prerequisite for a development project and the lack of
       attention to this prevents the management from recognizing and addressing critical gender-related
       issues appropriately.

8.1.4 The implications for future local governance:
    1. It is essential to keep the local governance objective high on the project agenda, and to actively
       create awareness of this at the national as well as local levels to ensure that the lessons learned
       throughout the project are integrated into the policies of the emerging government.
    2. Local communities prefer to assess their own needs and to be actively involved in the design and
       planning of projects. They resent being considered only as recipients. Local ownership to projects
       increases when linked to a community representative council.
    3. Channels need to be developed through which community needs can be included in the local
       development plans (such as sub-district, district, and regional levels). One model is to establish
       representative and elected development councils at the various levels to establish priorities within
       the overall national development plans and the available budgets.
    4. Local communities prefer to manage the project funds and are generally able to ensure
       accountability, transparency and efficient use of the funds.
    5. Block grants allocated to communities through menus as "open" as possible will encourage the
       continued participation of the communities and promote local contributions to the development
       budgets.


                                                     - 42 -

    6. Local communities prefer that labour is local and that labour is compensated (even when there is a
        local contribution to the budget) as it is important to generate income at the community level.
    7. All projects, even when implemented by a contractor, should use local labour wherever feasible.

8.2 Project Management and relation to GOTL

Lessons with respect to the relationship between project management and the GoTL highlight the
importance of securing strong government buy-in and coordination at all levels for operational success and
long term sustainability. Political will and coordination among key stakeholders is central when
implementing a large-scale project with cross-sectoral objectives and must be continuously encouraged and
strengthened. A number of issues should be considered in future interventions:
    1. Programme design must be based on consultation with all major stakeholders affected by the
        programme. In a post-conflict situation where political and institutional changes are likely to be
        rapid the design must be sufficiently flexible to integrate these changes.
    2. When working in post-conflict situations, where national governments are not yet operative, and
        where institutional set-up changes over time, there is an increased need to be flexible to keep
        projects in line with the emerging national policies and coordinated with relevant governmental
        agencies.
    3. Exit and handover strategies should be formulated as soon as there is sufficient political stability.
    4. Government ownership is difficult to sustain without the possibility of its continued institutional
        input. In any post-conflict situation where government is literally being developed as the project is
        being implemented there are going to be rapid changes in counterparts and key supervisors, so the
        need is to create structures where turnover will be more gradual and institutional continuity
        stronger. A steering committee should have been established to act as the overall managing body of
        the CEP. This would not only have secured more government buy-in, but also have secured more
        stability in light of rapidly changing ministries and ministers.
    5. In the absence of district level authorities, implementation models circumventing this level should
        include a road map for how to integrate project activities into government structures as these
        emerge.
    6. At the decentralised level of the programme a similar steering body with programme
        representatives, representatives from district administration and line ministries should have been
        formed to ensure overall coordination of CEP implementation. Some funds and a limited mandate
        should have been vested in such a body. With or without a steering body, strong guidelines should
        have been established to foster cooperation at this level.
    7. At project level government ownership and coordination could have been improved by including
        relevant personnel in a number of the implementation mechanisms; (i) with responsibility for
        complaint procedures, (ii) responsibility for financial disbursements, and (iii) chairing verification
        teams.

Lack of capacity hampered implementation at a number of levels, including:
   l Ability of government to meet their responsibilities within the programme;
   l Ability of the PMU to resolve some of the managerial and qualitative aspects of the CEP, and
   l Ability of the community councils to develop skills with application beyond activities closely
        related to CEP procedures.

A number of issues should be considered in future interventions:

    1. Any post-conflict environment is likely to be characterised by low initial capacity. Programme
        objectives and design should take existing capacity into account either by reconsidering objectives


                                                      - 43 -

        in light of current capacity or by ensuring that financing and implementation schedules allow for
        sufficient capacity building in light of formulated objectives.
    2. In CEP low government capacity was seen merely as a hindrance, whereas it could have been
        addressed more proactively. Detailed mapping of gaps should have been followed by relevant
        training and TA support; indeed, the building of government capacity to manage local governance
        should have been seen as one of the objectives of the programme, though this is, frankly, more
        easily said than done in a situation of rapid turnover in government counterparts.
    3. While nationalization of project management is important in securing ownership and long-term
        sustainability, international TA will be an important aspect of building the required capacity.
    4. Local and community capacity is the central feature of local governance. Focus should thus be on
        training and quality rather than disbursement timetables. Capacity building should assume more
        importance than training per se in project procedural aspects, should include all relevant
        stakeholders, and should include more innovative approaches such as visits to successful
        sub-districts and villages etc.

While the CEP has proved that few and simple procedures can ensure accountable use of funds at the
community level, a number of changes should be considered if similar designs were to be used in future
interventions;
    1. Relations to existing traditional authorities at community level should be considered carefully. The
        objective of democratisation should be considered against aspects of sustainability and feasibility.
        A more explicit and formal role of traditional authorities would have increased their support to and
        stake in the project.
    2. The need for flexibility and qualitative change should be balanced against the need of continuity.
        Rapid changes at times where staff and stakeholders are still trying to grasp existing procedures
        may undermine the quality of implementation and should be avoided.
    3. For projects with many stakeholders and a strong need for coordination, changes in procedures, or
        successive changes in project plans and timing, should be followed up by consolidated project
        documents to ensure clarity of objectives and a clear point for common reference.
    4. Disbursement procedures that allow continuity in community project implementation are important
        to ensure participation. Disbursement for implementation should thus ideally follow individual
        project schedules.
    5. Complaint mechanisms should be considered a must for any community programmes. They are
        important for conflict resolution, for monitoring and addressing problems, and for accountability in
        general.
    6. For projects with governance and qualitative objectives these should feature in the set of indicators
        to be included in the regular monitoring system. Strong mechanisms for follow-up should be an
        in-built part of any monitoring system. Apart from internal monitoring, independent reviews
        should be carried out, especially for projects with many stakeholders or which are heavily
        politicized.

8.3 Revolving funds

CEP was not a financial sector project, did not intend to establish sustainable microfinance mechanisms,
and indeed project funds allocated to credits for economic activities amounted to only 13% of total sub
grant expenditures. However, its use of credit to achieve goals for post-conflict reconstruction had
implications for the revival of financial services in Timor-Leste. Credit was employed in CEP as an
`add-on' feature, something attached to the project to enhance its effectiveness in a situation in which there
was a need for rapid action (and to meet political pressures). But credit is not an accessory that can be
added to a package with minimal preparation. It requires specialist inputs for successful operation, and in


                                                      - 44 -

this regard the project could have performed better.
Whenever credit is included in a package of assistance it must be taken seriously, in the sense that
appropriate targets for repayment should be defined and appropriate measures for collection determined.
However, the situation in Timor at the time of the project seems much more suited to the use of grant rather
than credit mechanisms; consideration should be given to employing outright grants, rather than loans, in
order to finance activities deemed necessary for the revival of economic activity. Much of this funding
would be applied to re-capitalizing businesses that have been destroyed or destocked by conflict. Such
grants should be given to micro-entrepreneurs on the basis of viable proposals evaluated on business
principles. This should be done in the interest of economic revival, even though immediate benefits may
accrue to private individuals rather than to the public.

Related to the point above is the likelihood of severe economic fluctuations in the immediate post-crisis
period (as for example in exchange rates and the level of economic activity in a `bubble' economy) that are
likely to expose borrowers to unacceptably high risks and may produce outcomes contrary to those
intended. This further strengthens the case for grants vis-à-vis loans.

These factors point to the need to phase emergency stimulus for economic activity from grants to credit
over some period of time. This time-period would need to be related to the revival of economic activity and
the financial system, including commercial banks and MFIs. In this respect the experience of CEP further
validates the conclusions on credit reached in the World Bank's Implementation Completion Report for
SEP I, the Small Enterprise Project in Timor-Leste. These called for a transition from `intermediated
grants' to `intermediated credit' over time, with the former administered by government or
quasi-government entities and the latter by financial institutions.

The experience of credit delivered via CEP offers no new lessons for good practice in micro credit. It does,
however, underline some limitations of micro credit in the immediate aftermath of crisis that bear upon the
concerns of donors and the IDA. These include:
     1. Where decision-making is divorced from risk, credit allocation is inefficient.
     2. Subsidized credit tends to undercut credit delivered by institutions striving towards sustainability.
     3. The absence of any assurance of follow-up credit is a disincentive to repayment.
     4. Failure to recycle credit promptly reduces the multiplier effect on economic activity of a given
         quantum of loan capital.
     5. The contamination of non-repayment spreads rapidly if immediate and effective action is not taken.

     6. Micro credit is not well-adapted to the needs of seasonal agriculture.
     7. Credit-management groups are organic entities forged by training and sustained by mutual
         obligation, and as such they should be consistent with social conditions and dynamics within the
         communities included. In Timor the social conditions meant that credit was really not an
         appropriate mechanism.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 45 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 46 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR End of         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      Project
Community Sub-Grants                 Construction of wells, bridges and   2nd cycle
Selection of village council         water supply installation            90% of work completed
members                              Roads                                170 wells dug
Infrastructure (roads, bridges,      Support to vulnerable groups         441 Km of pipe for water supply
markets, water supply, etc.) built. Election of Conselho do Suco          installed
Economic activities support, and                                          438 Km of roads built
social welfare activities                                                 68 economic activities for vulnerable
Income generating activities,                                             groups supported
training or counseling activities                                         418 villages with Conselho do Suco
widows and vulnerable groups                                              reelected in November 2002

                                                                          3rd cycle:
                                                                          209 wells dug
                                                                          352 km of pipe for water supply
                                                                          installed by March 2003
                                                                          12 bridges building by March 2003
                                                                          457 villages with Conselho do Suco
                                                                          reelected October 2003
Cultural Heritage                    Vulnerable groups supported          117 proposals approved and supported
Reconstruction of the building for Infrastructure construction            (i.e., weaving, music, sports and
the National Performance and         Disbursement of grants for cultural  theatre) in March 2003
culture center                       activities                           98% of cultural heritage museum
Architects and consultants to                                             building construction completed in
design and supervise                                                      October 2003
Sub-grants for artists and activities                                     $30,370 disbursed under grants
at the cultural center
Collection and archiving of oral
history
Village grants for cultural
activities
Community Radios                     Establish community radio stations   26 district reporters trained and equipped
Establishment of a community         and management boards; and train     (under CEP II only)
radio support center                 station managers, technicians, and   1 support center (Community Radio
Training and equipment of district reporters                              Center) formally established in March
reporters (under CEP II only)                                             2003
Training and equipment for                                                8 community radio stations on the air by
establishment of community radio                                          March 2003
stations                                                                  8 radio management boards (Kliburs)
                                                                          established
                                                                          8 station managers, 40 management
                                                                          board members, and 76 technicians and
                                                                          reporters trained




                                                         - 47 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1: Budget per Grant in 1000 USD
                                                                          Grants
               Infrastructure Vulnerable DCDC       Radio     Culture Consultants Goods Operaional*        Total
PHRD               1050                                                      500                          1550
CEP I              3650                                                      2180     1120      50        7000
CEP II             3770             950     240       580        100         1790              1070       8500
CEP III             200                                35        23          1029              213        1500
Total              8670             950     240       615        123         5499     1120     1333       18550
Percentage         46.7%           0.5%    0.1%      0.3%      0.1%          30%       6%      7.2%
*Includes Civil Works (Radio and Culture Centre), Audit fees and Incremental Costs

Table 2: CEP Summary of Expenditure by Category
                             Community            Goods         Civil Works       Operational   Consultants    Total
                              Subgrants                                             Costs
TF026209                       1,050,000                                                          500,000      1,550,000
TF023534                       3,632,865        1,119,932          50,000                        2,197,202     7,000,000
TF029376                       1,874,082          364,329          494,031         174,370       1,398,347     4,605,159
TF051103                         3,020            25,046            1,574          121,428        695,075        862,143
Total Disbursed                6,559,967        1,509,308          861,605         295,798       4,790,624    14,017,302
Total Budget                  10,220,000        1,997,932          875,000         348,999       5,126,292    18,567,135
% of Total Actual               46.8%             10.8%             6.1%            2.1%          34.2%          100.0%
% of Total Budget               55.0%             10.8%             4.7%            1.9%          27.6%          100.0%


Table 3: Summary of CEP Sub-Grant Activities in Percentage of 1000 USD
                               Cycle I                  Cycle II                  Cycle III*             Total
                          1000 $        %        1000 $          %           1000 $         %      1000 $       %
Roads and Bridges           90          6         487             12           536          15      1113        13
Water & Sanitation          89          6         986             29          1194          34      2269        27
Irrigation                  9           1         115             3            290          8        414         5
Social Housing               -                    232             7            783          22      1016        12
Community Halls            726          50                                                           726         9
Clinics                                            2              1             4           1         6
Schools                                            6              1            28           1        35
Market Buildings                                                               19           1        19
Household Equipment        297          20         99             3                                  396         4
Agricultural               159          11        126             4                                  285         3
Equipment
Electrification                                    42             1            47           1        90          1
Women's Groups                                     70             2                                  134         2
Other Activities            11          1          30             1                                  43          1
Training                                                                       66           1        66          1
Credit                                            1047            30           47           1       1094        13
Unallocated                                                                    151          4        151         2
6% Administrative           72          5         206             6            212          6        421         5
5% Capacity Building                                                           176          5        176         2
Total                     1453          10        3448            10          3553         100      8454        100
*Excluding four Postos in Dili District




                                                          - 48 -

Table 4: Project Output/Impact Key Performance Indicators for Community Sub-Grants
                 Project Performance Indicators               Target   CEP I   Target  CEP II  Target CEP III
TFET       1     Number of Project Sub-Districts              60       60      60      60      NA     64
           2     Number of Villages with Conselho do Suco 300          418     300     418     NA     450
           3     Number of villages with sub-projects         250      418     300     407            370
           4     Number of O/M committees established         NA       NM      80%     NM      NA     NM
           5     Percentage of agreed work completed          80%      100%    95%     96.5%   100%   -
           6     Amount Disbursed                             $2.5 m   $4.7 m  $3.5 m  $3.8 m  $0.2 m -
           7     Number of activities from Non CEP sources NA          NM      NA      NM      20     NM
           8     Number of project certifications by engineer NA       NA      NN      354     NN     -
           9     Percentage of work funded by community       NA       NM      10%     29%     10%    32%
           10    Number of Re-elections                       NA       NA      300     418     NA     450
           11    Total number of projects                     NA       558     NA      1033    NA     643
PADs       12    Number of villages with sub-projects         NA       418     250     407     400    370
           13    Proposals by Type and Amount                 NN       Fig 5   NA      Fig 5   NA     Fig 5
           14    Number of notice boards                      NA       NA      300     407     100%   100%
NA: Not applicable; NN: No Target Set; NM: Not Monitored
Source: From Annex 2 Project and Council Management Figure 4.




                                                          - 49 -

Table 5: Use of Funds by Project Activity - Trust Fund 023534

  Category                       Activity                        Expenditure

1            Sub Grants & Credits Part A - 1st Cycle
             (a) Part A.1                                              598,974
             2% Administration CdS                                       11,869
             3% Administration CdP                                       17,804
             Agriculture                                                      0
             Community Halls/Buildings                                 422,061
             Household Equipment                                         62,796
             Irrigation                                                   4,346
             Livestock                                                   12,951
             Farm Machinery/Tools                                        13,901
             Marine/Fishing                                                   0
             Roads & Bridges                                             30,286
             Sewing Machines                                                  0
             Water & Sanitation                                          19,265
             Other                                                            0
             Sub Grants & Credits Part A - 2nd Cycle
             (a) Part A.1 & A.2                                      2,586,941
             3% Administration CdS                                       77,608
             3% Administration CdP                                       77,608
             Grants                                                  1,702,207
             Credit                                                    729,517
             Sub Grants & Credits Part A
             (b) Parts C & D                                              4,321
2            Goods (Including Transportation)                        1,080,483
             Computers & Peripheral Equip.                               36,796
             Computer - R&M                                               3,832
             Computer - Consumables & Stationery                          3,327
             Film, Film Developing & Printing                               976
             Motor Cycles                                              137,626
             Motor Cycles - Insurance & Regn.                             3,947
             Motor Cycles - Fuel                                          4,147
             Motor Cycles - R&M                                          24,755
             Motor Cycles - Hire                                              0
             Motor Cycles - Helmets                                       1,240
             Motor Cycles - Misc.                                            15
             Motor Vehicles                                            333,138
             Motor Vehicles - Insurance & Regn.                           5,895
             Motor Vehicles - Fuel                                       47,054
             Motor Vehicles - R&M                                        48,599
             Motor Vehicles - Misc.                                         940
             Motor Vehicles - Hire                                       87,838
             Motor Vehicles - Hire (Anthropologists)                      2,616
             Motor Vehicles - Hire, Fuel                                    695
             Office Building, Renovation/Repairs/Maint                   21,334
             Office Furniture & Equipment                                32,341
             Office Furniture & Equipment - Comp. C                         150
             Office Stationery                                           29,537
             Photocopying                                                24,076
             Photocopying - Comp. A, Gender Subcomponent                    166
                                                                            224
             Photocopying - Comp. C                                      12,929
             Printing                                                     5,930
             Programme Administration                                     1,422
             Generator Fuel - Bappeda II Building                         9,686



                                                     - 50 -

              Telephone - Bappeda II Building                                             14,685
              Telephone Line - Computer Server Bappeda II                                    383
              Building                                                                     1,676
              Uniforms & Clothing                                                         52,047
              Radios - VHF                                                               130,459
              Safes
              Other - Imprest

 3            Consultants Services                                                     2,148,381
              Consultants - Local, Base                                                  310,257
              Consultants - Local, Base Comp. B                                            1,856
              Consultants - Local, Base Comp. C                                              193
              Consultants - Local, Oncost                                                 10,750
              Consultants - Local, Accom & Per Diem                                       79,508
              Consultants - Local, Motor Cycle Allowance                                  75,550
              Consultants - Local, Relocation Allowance                                    1,350
              Consultants - Local, Risk Allowance                                             15
              Consultants - Local, Field Per diems                                         9,724
              Consultants - Local, Telephone                                               3,414
              Consultants - Local, Expenses                                                9,272
              Consultants - Local, Training                                               14,568
              Consultants - Local, Intl. Travel                                           14,637
              Consultants - Intl.                                                         70,476
              Consultants - Intl, Comp. A, Anthropologist                                 22,195
              subcomp.                                                                    47,213
              Consultants - Intl, Comp. B                                                    566
              Consultants - Intl, Intl. Travel                                         1,267,753
              Consultants - CAA

              Consultants - Suco Facilitators, Technical & Verification Operational
              Field Costs                                                                 85,012
              Consultants - Other                                                         76,362
              Consultants - Component B, UNESCO                                           45,000
              Other - Imprest                                                              2,711
              Unallocated                                                                      0

4             Bank Charges                                                                 9,789

5             Bank Fees & Commission                                                       9,789
              Other                                                                            0

              TOTAL PROJECT EXPENDITURE                                                6,428,889


Table 6: Women's Groups Training Cycle II
 Activity                                                            Amount
  Sewing Total                                                     $ 17,883.00
  Sewing machine Total                                             $ 33,904.38
  Tais making Total                                                 $ 1,250.00
  Training for tais making Total                                    $ 4,743.00
  Training for women Total                                          $ 7,013.00
  Training women's groups Total                                     $ 4,731.00
Grand Total                                                        $ 69,524.38




                                                         - 51 -

Table 7: Credit activities Cycle II
Agriculture Total                                     $ 29,512.00
Agriculture equipment Total                           $ 27,268.00
candlenut business Total                               $ 1,050.00
Clean Water Total                                      $ 1,598.00
Concrete mixing machine Total                          $ 2,800.00
Corn business Total                                    $ 500.00
Cow butcher Total                                      $ 1,000.00
Door/Window making - joinery Total                     $ 2,734.00
Fishing Total                                         $ 61,564.00
Fuel supply business Total                             $ 1,500.00
Furniture making Total                                $ 30,553.43
Goat raising business Total                            $ 266.00
Hand Tractor Total                                    $ 29,397.00
horse business Total                                   $ 1,000.00
Livestock Total                                      $ 130,276.00
Photo business Total                                   $ 1,177.00
Plough Total                                           $ 1,135.00
Restaurant Total                                      $ 14,936.00
Rice Husking Machine Total                            $ 60,093.00
Sewing Total                                           $ 1,500.00
Small Kiosk Total                                    $ 565,316.78
Tais making Total                                      $ 5,980.00
Tobacco Total                                          $ 580.00
Training for furniture and sewing Total                $ 5,000.00
Transportation Total                                  $ 31,250.00
Various Total                                         $ 39,073.00

Grand Total                                          $ 1,047,059.21




                                           - 52 -

 Table 8: Grant Allocations by Village by Cycle
 DISTRICT                         SUBDISTRICT         Villages  Population WB Block      1st Cycle    WB Block    2nd Cycle
                                                      1998      1998       Grant for 1st Actual       Grant for   Actual
                                                                           Cycle         Disbursement 2nd Cycle   Disbursement
 AILEU                            AILEU                    11       15,242         28,571     29,321      75,000         75,000
                                  LAU
                                  LARA                     5         3,699         14,286     14,493      25,000         25,000
                                  LIQUIDOE                 7         4,852         14,286     14,492      25,000         25,000
                                  REMEXIO                  8        11,129         28,571     28,986      50,000         50,000
 AINARO                           AINARO                   7        15,697         28,571     27,777      75,000         75,000
                                  BUILICO                  3         9,827         28,571     27,777      50,000         50,000
                                  HUDO                     2         8,717         14,286     13,889      50,000         50,000
                                  MAUBISSE                 9        16,841         28,571     27,779      75,000         75,000
 ERMERA                           ATSABE                   12       16,410         28,571     28,166      75,000         75,000
                                  ERMERA                   10       24,812         42,857     42,253      75,000         73,940
                                  HATOLIA                  13       24,750         42,857     42,255      75,000         75,000
                                  LETEFOHO                 8        16,451         28,571     28,169      75,000         75,000
                                  RAILAKO                  9         8,372         14,286     14,081      50,000         50,000
 LIQUICA                          BAZARTE                  9        19,908         42,857     43,284      75,000         74,566
                                  LIQUICA                  7        19,055         42,857     43,291      75,000         74,794
                                  MAUBARA                  7        17,606         28,571     28,860      75,000         75,000
 MANATUTO                          LACLO                   4         5,345         14,286     14,084      50,000         47,204
                                  LACLUBAR                 6        10,404         28,571     28,168      50,000         50,000
                                  LALEIA                   3         3,011         14,286     14,084      25,000         23,586
                                  MANATUTO                 6        12,759         28,571     28,169      50,000         43,132
                                  NATARB ORA (BARIQUE)     5         5,573         14,286     14,084      50,000         40,188
                                  SOIBADA                  5         2,582         14,286     14,084      25,000         25,000
 BAUCAU                           BAGUIA                   10       12,910         42,857     25,641      50,000         50,000
                                  BAUCAU                   11       29,582         28,571     38,462      100,000       100,000
FATU MAKA (additional posto       LAGA                     9        12,675         28,571     25,639      50,000         50,000
2001 due to Posta Baucau Split)
                                  QUELICAI                 15       16,205         28,571     25,737      75,000         75,000
                                  VEMASSE                  7         7,225         14,286     12,822      50,000         50,000
                                  VENILALE                 8        14,954         28,571     25,641      50,000         50,000
 BOBONARO                         ATABAE                   4        10,451         28,571     19,480      50,000         50,000
                                  BALIBO                   6        14,240         28,571     19,480      50,000         50,000
                                  BOBONARO                 18       26,069         42,857     38,961      100,000       100,000
                                  KAILAKO                  8         8,204         14,286     19,201      50,000         50,000
                                  LOLOTOI                  7         7,171         14,286     19,480      50,000         50,000
                                  MALIANA                  7        20,798         42,857     39,153      75,000         75,000
 COVALIMA                         FATU FULIC               2         2,026         14,286     14,286      25,000         25,000
                                  FATU MEAN                3         3,772         14,286     14,286      25,000         25,000
                                  FOHORE                   4         3,974         14,286     14,288      25,000         25,000
                                  MAPE/ ZUMULAI            8        25,579         28,571     28,575      100,000       100,000
                                  SUAI                     9        25,505         42,857     42,857      100,000       100,000
                                  TILOMAR MAUKATAR         3         6,983         14,286     14,286      50,000         50,000
 DILI                             ATAURO                   5         7,387         14,286     14,286      50,000         50,000
                                  METINARO                 2         3,480         14,286     14,286      25,000         25,000
 LAUTEM                           ILIOMAR                  6         6,476         14,286     12,345      50,000         45,000
                                  LAUTEM/ MORO             10       12,127         28,571     24,691      50,000         50,000
                                  LOS PALOS                10       24,739         42,857     37,037      75,000         75,000
                                  LURO                     6         5,915         14,286     12,345      50,000         50,000
                                  TUTUALA                  2         3,230         14,286     12,345      25,000         25,000
 MANUFAHI                         ALAS                     5         7,596         14,286     12,345      50,000         50,000
                                  FATUBERLIU               5         6,997         14,286     12,345      50,000         50,000
                                  SAME                     8        23,331         42,857     36,907      75,000         75,000
                                  TURISCAI                 11        5,495         14,286     12,347      50,000         50,000
 OECUSSI                          NITIBE                   5         9,912         14,286     14,285      50,000         50,000
                                  OE SILO                  3        10,383         28,571     28,571      50,000         50,000
                                  PANTE MACASSAR A         8        28,779         42,857     42,856      100,000       100,000
                                  PASSABE                  3         8,215         14,286     14,286      50,000         50,000
 VIQUEQUE                         LACLUTA                  4         6,722         14,286     14,288      50,000         50,000
                                  OSSU                     9        13,429         28,571     28,568      75,000         75,000
                                  UATO-LARI                6         6,026         14,286     28,571      75,000         75,000
                                  UATU-CARBAU              6        15,457         28,571     28,572      75,000         75,000
                                  VIQUEQUE                 10       20,440         42,857     42,849      75,000         75,000
 TOTAL                                                             747,501     1,500,000   1,449,945   3,475,000      3,447,409




                                                              - 53 -

- 54 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 55 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision

               10/14/2000                 6   NGO SPECIALIST (1); DEV.               S              S
                                              COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                              RADIO ENGINEER (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              (1); GENDER/TTL (1);
                                              PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
               12/07/2000                 5   GENDER SPECIALIST/TTL                  S              S
                                              (1); OPERATIONS (1);
                                              TECHNICAL AND ENV. (1);
                                              MEDIA AND COMMS. (1);
                                              PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
               03/31/2001                 5   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                    S              S
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              COMMUNICATIONS (1); NGO
                                              (1); PROCUREMENT (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision
  Total



Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     CEP I                 CEP II               CEP III
                                   US$ ('000)            US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          130,935               130,935                66,169
Appraisal/Negotiation                                         -                     -
Supervision                         398,240               398,240               299,667
Total                              1,261,187              529,175               365,837




                                               - 56 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 58 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Documents:
Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project, May 15, 2000.
Second Community Empowerment Project, April 30, 2001
Third Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project, June 3, 2002
Independent Review Preliminary Findings, Draft Report, November 14, 2003.




                                                - 59 -

- 60 -

