Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20312 TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT AND A SECOND GRANT
OF US$14.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE UNITED NATIONS
TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
FOR A
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE PROJECT
May 15, 2000
Environment and Social Development Unit
Pacific Islands Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2000)
Currency Unit = US dollars
LC = US$1
US$1 = LC
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                       Asian Development Bank
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CNRT                      onselho Nacional da Resistencia Timorense (National
ouncil of Timorese Resistance)
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
JAM                       Joint Assessment Mission
KDP                       Kecamatan Development Project
LEGEA                     Legal Department, East Asia (WB)
MIS
NCC                       National Consultative Council
NGO                       Non-governmental Organization
PMU                       Project Management Unit
UNESCO                    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNTAET                    United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Vice President: Jamal-ud-din-Kassum
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director: Zafar Ecevit
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Scott Guggenheim



East Timor
Community Empowerment Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ...............................2
1. Project development objective                          .2
2. Key performance indicators                            .2
B Strategic Context                                     .2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                    .4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C Project Description Summary....................................................................................................
1. Project components...........................................................................................................
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project         .9
3. Benefits and target population                         .9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .10
D Project Rationale .11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .11
2. Major related projects financed by IDA  and/or other development agencies        12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .12
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership .13
5. Value added of IDA support in this project .13
E Summary Project Analysis .14
1. Economic .14
2. Financial .14
3. Technical .15
4. Institutional .16
5. Social .17
6. Environmental assessment .19
7. Participatory approach .19
F Sustainability and Risks .20
1. Sustainability .20
2. Critical Risks .20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .20



G Main Grant Conditions ........................                                     21
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................ 21
2. Other................................................................................................................................
H Readiness for Implementation ........................;    24
I Compliance with IDA Policies ........................                              25
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Grants
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Regulation on Local Elections
Annex 12.     Sample Subproject Agreement
Annex 13.     Sample Subproject Implementation Agreement for Works and/or Supplies
Annex 14.     Sample Community Procurement Documentation
Annex 15.     Sample Community Contract
Annex 16.    Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines
Annex 17.    Environmental Assessment and Management Procedures
Annex 18.    Development Plan for Timorese Hand over
Map



East Timor
Community Empowerment Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Pacific Islands
Date: February 15, 2,000                             Team Leader: Scott Guggenheim
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland              Sector Manager/Director: Zafar Ecevit
Project ID: P069762                                  Sector: SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Grant         Theme(s): Social Development
It.,                                              Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [   No
Project Financing
Data
[] Credit    [X] Grant        [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Grants/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $21.0 million
Proposed terms:  [1] Tranche 1: $ 7.Om    [  Multi currency     [X] Single currency
[2] Tranche 2: $ 7.Om
[3] Tranche 3 $ 7.0
X] Standard Variable    [  Fixed             [1 LIBOR-based
Fiiancing plan:                     [] To be defined
Source               Local           Foreign               Total
Government
IDA Executed Grant                            21.0                   21.0
Japan PHRD                                     1.5                     1.5
Asian Development Bank                          1.0                    1.0
Technical Assistance Grant
Total:                                        23.5                    23.5
Grantee: lJnited Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET)
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: UNTAET Office of District Administration
Estimated disbursements (IDA FYlUS$M):
FY           01           02           03           04
Annual        3.0          9.0          9.5          1.0
Cumulative          3.0         12.0         21.5         22.5
Project implementation period: Two years and eight months
Expected effectiveness date: March 31, 2000           Expected closing date: December 31, 2003
Implementing agency: UNTAET Office of District Administration
Contact person: Messr. Jean Christian Cady
Address: Diil, East Timor
Tel:                           Fax:                           E-mail:
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1):
The objective of the Community Empowerment Project (CEP) is to strengthen local level social capital to
build institutions that reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth. The name of the project,
"community empowerment," is based on the principle that projects will be producedby communitiesfor
community activities. Through the creation of development councils, the CEP aims to reduce poverty by
strengthening the institutional capacity of sub-districts and villages to:
(i) build and reconstruct their basic economic infrastructure (such as farm-to-market roads, small
bridges, irrigation and drainage systems, clean water, and so on -- as determined by the
community, itself),
(ii) support productive local economic activities, and
(iii) support cultural heritage and social reconciliation.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The establishment and continuation of local development councils will be used as a key performance
indicator of strengthening local capacity. Village councils must complete local development plans, which
will be recorded in the master MIS. Evidence that the plans contribute to the poverty objectives are given
by the number of proposals, by their type and amount, and by completion certifications by the supervising
engineer.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
No CAS has been prepared for East Timor as of yet. However, this project, based on the highly
successful Kecamatan Development Project formerly implemented in East Timor, follows from Section
III on "Community Empowerment," from the Governance Background Paper -- one of five reports
developed by the World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) to East Timor from October to
November, 1999.
The JAM found that the post-ballot violence left East Timor with (i) more than 75 % of the population
displaced, (ii) virtually the entire pre-independence governance structure dismantled, with the departure
of senior and middle level civil servants; (iii) all technical sectors inoperable, with the departure of
almost all technical experts; (iv) an estimated '15 % of administrative buildings and 80 % of social
infrastructure (schools and clinics) completely or partially destroyed, especially in the cities of Dili,
Manututo, Suai, Oekussi, and Los Palos and much of their hinterlands; and (v) all equipment and
materials in administrative buildings destroyed, removed or looted. Core infrastructure (roads, electricity,
water) suffered less damage, however infrastructure facilities were already inadequate and poorly
maintained prior to the violence which followed the referendum on August 30&', 1999.
Transportation, supplies, and commercial warehouses were looted across the country, and a commercial
distribution system effectively no longer exists. The economy has been hit by a dramatic supply shock,
due to the destruction or looting of local inventories of manufactured goods, the closing of the border with
West Timor, and the lack of civilian access to ports. Virtually all supplies must be imported. The physical
infrastructure and equipment in every bank has been destroyed or looted, and there currently is no
payment system in operation that enables public or private entities to pay salaries or suppliers for goods
and services. Even more important, there is a dramatic shortage of skilled personnel for the secondary
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 3
and tertiary sectors since most technical positions were occupied by Indonesians, who hLave left the
territory. It is estimated that the destruction will result in a drop of 40-45% of GDP over 2000.
Of a pre-crisis population of 850,000 people, approximately 100,000-150,000 are still refugees within
Indonesian camps. It is estimated that in the weeks following the ballot, 75% of the population was
displaced and almost 70% of the country's physical infrastructure was destroyed or rendered inoperable.
Social sectors show similar rates of destruction: the health system has lost all fixed equipment and
consumables, and 130 of 160 physicians, while the education sector lost all textbooks and school
materials, and somewhere around 75% of the country's secondary teachers are almost certain to have left
the country. About 75% of the primary school teachers were Timorese and are thus available to help, but
school buildings were especially targeted by militias and few remain usable.
The institutional framework for governance and public decision-making has also disappeared. The JAM
found that the civil service is not functioning at any level in East Timor. However, the collapse of the
civil service also presents an opportunity for reform. Under Indonesian occupation, the civil service was
characterized by (i) overstaffing: with 28,000 civil servants (nearly 50% higher than the Asia average);
(ii) multiple layers of bureaucracy; (iii) duplication of functions between line ministries and decentralized
departments; (iv) a top down organizational culture, with little community participation and
marginalization of traditional local decision-making structures; and (v) exceptionally low pay levels,
encouraging the establishment of legal and illegal fringe benefits. Policy recommendations for the
transitional period are that the aggregate numbers for the civil service should not exceed 12,200 in the
first three years, of which approximately 90% of those will be teachers and health workers. The number
pre-supposes no rehiring of paid civil servants at the village level, substantial cuts in management and
administrative staff, and replacing the previous full-time paid civil service positions at the sub-district
level with the community-elected sub-district council being developed through the proposed Community
Empowerment Project.
Donor support for the reconstruction of East Timor is taking place through the United Nations
Transitional Administration in East Timor (UJNTAET). Established by the Security Council Resolution
1272 (S/RES/12'72) on October 25, 1999, UNTAET is expected to continue for approximately 2.5-3
years. During that time, UNTAET's mandate is to oversee the country's reconstruction, develop Timorese
administrative and technical capacities, and implement a strategy to hand over functions to an East
Timorese administration. Funding for the UNTAET effort is provided through (i) a $43.3 million
UNTAET trust fund funded through assessments on UN member states, of which US$30 million are for
recurrent budgetary requirements and US$13.3 million are for institution and capacity building ; (ii) a
$126 million short-term humanitarian pledge known as the Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal for the
East Timor Crisis (CAP) of 27 October 1999 (out of which US$58,000 was seen as beyond the initial
emergency response and was regarded as medium tern development to avoid duplication or double
counting);and (iii) a $148 million medium term development trust fund that is managed by the IDA.
(Additional resources are provided through bilateral and NGO contributions, which are significant but not
well coordinated at the present time.)
Within the context of priorities laid out by the JAM, the Community Empowerment l'roject t supports
IDA's key objectives in East Timor, during the transitional period. The first of these is to repair the
destruction caused by the violence, which the project will do through its grant and micro credit activities.
The second and equally critical objective is to ensure that post-conflict reconstruction activities occur
within a framework which strengthens participatory, transparent, and accountable inst.itutions. These will
be the foundation of East Timor's development after the immediate reconstruction is completed. One of
the rnost important set of institutions is at the local government and civil society level, both of which are
supported by the project.



Page 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty Reduction. The key issue for all work in East Timor is poverty reduction. East Timor was already
the poorest part of Indonesia prior to Independence. Against a national poverty average of 11-13%, at
least 30% of East Timor's population fell below the nationally defined poverty line. Timor fell behind
Indonesia in most quality of poverty indicators: infant mortality and morbidity, illiteracy, malnutrition,
intestinal disease, malaria, maternal mortality, and so on.
Institutional Capacity Building. Timorese administrative capacity for resolving problems of poverty was
and is low. Prior to Independence, senior levels of the civil service were mostly non-Timorese: of the 13
district administrators in East Timor, for example, only two were Timorese. Since the conflict, none of the
non-Timorese civil servants have returned. This has affected every level of government service
provision: virtually all of the secondary school teachers and most of the country's health workers departed
the country in the period prior to the referendum that led to independence.
National capacities to plan and implement a broad-based poverty strategy are limited. UNTAET is an
entirely new government organization and many of its most basic administrative systems are still being
installed. The National Consultative Council, which includes Timorese representatives, is also an entirely
new organization. Civil service recruitment is just starting, while UJNTAET administrative structures
extend only to the district level.
Governance Structures. For the local levels of social organization with which the proposed project is
concerned, governance and social issues reflect both the problems of the previous administrative system,
compounded by the problems caused by the violence that surrounded independence. The prior
administrative system was a top-down, highly centralized administrative system. As a result, political
accountabilities were mostly upwards. Even village administrators in the Indonesian system reflect
loyalty to the district head rather than loyalty to a popular constituency.
Community Ownership and Local-level Capacity Building. Development programs by and large
reflected the availability of centralized budgets rather than a response to locally perceived and expressed
needs. Thus, despite a relatively large expenditure on Timorese development, on-the-ground impacts
were relatively slight, ownership was low, and the long-term sustainability of most development
programs has been minimal. Alternative program designs that emphasize community ownership, high
quality TA, and more local adaptation show significantly superior results in terms of effective use of
development funds and responsiveness to expressed needs.
Rural Reconstruction. Another issue which effects community empowerment lies in the distorting
nature of the transition and reconstruction period. . The presence of a significant number of high-paid
international humanitarian and development agencies in Dili will inevitably cause local economic
inflation bubbles, and will equally inevitably pull many people out of rural areas.. This process of
accelerated urbanization has already started. Rf.pid investment in rural reconstruction and normalization
of the micro-economy is critical to balance the distortion caused by the presence of large numbers of
international staff in Dili.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The JAM review of priorities for the transitional period recommended a "Community Empowerment and
Governance Program", which is essentially the same as the project being proposed here.
Recommendations focused on four main components: (i) establishing and building capacity through
village, sub-district, and district councils; (ii) provision of grants and micro-credits for the rehabilitation
of infrastructure and the recovery of economic activities; (iii) support to vulnerable groups, including
victims of violence, female-headed households, the elderly, and physically handicapped and/or



Page 5
traumatized people; and (iv) a strong cultural heritage programn that encourages reconciliation and nation-
building. These four priorities have guided the proposed project.
The proposed project approach cuts across a variety of sectors, especially given (i) the overall lack of an
integrated administrative structure that can provide line agency service delivery; (ii) the need to develop a
reconstruction framework that can be sustained by subsequent administrations; and (iii) the fiscal
requirements to keep government service and administrative positions small in number and limited to
levels where specific expertise is required, with most localized development functions being carried out
by communities themselves, through elected committees and supported by the private/NGO sectors. The
project is compatible with planned initiatives in the health, education, roads, and agricultural sectors since
it will provide these sectors with an administrative framework for bottom-up participation in their
planning and implementation.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
................ . .... .. ..   . ... :..C 6m - .ne-t--  . . .... . ..... -.-.-.
.   .    . - Indicatve--    .  Grant-:                       toa a:--
Cmonent               Cot .        .   of   iacing   Trnh .   rnh   .f . 
___________________________   (US$M) .  Total   (T$ ne                         :  i B;
Community block grants              19.5    87       17.0       6.75     10.25    85
includes $1. 0 million ADB TA grant
and $1.5 million Japanese PHRD grant
Cultural Heritage                    2        9       2         0.25      1.75    10
CH+CSSD
Civil Society Support Fund           1        4        1      combined    1.0       5
(i)  Total Project Costs           22.5   100       20.0       7.0       13.0    100
(ii) Total Financing Required      22.5   100       20.0       7.0       13.0    100
a. ) Community Grants ($19.5 million)
A main development objective of the Community Empowerment Project is to let villagers make their
own choices about the kinds of projects that they need and want. Thus the main purpose of the
community grants is to support development proposals that are produced by villagersfor the public good
of their communities. The financial core of the Community Empowerment Project lies in the block
grants that will be given to each sub-district in East Timor four times during the two year life of the
project, and in the "open menu" principle. Project support through district level technical specialists and
local level facilitators will provide village men and women with the information, opportunity, and
freedom of choice that they need to make informed, responsible, proposals and decisions. Facilitators will
guide villagers in developing proposals, and proposed projects will be selected and funded based on a
democratic process. Projects will clearly vary from district to district since communities will choose
different projects depending on their needs in a given area. Whether it be repairing a bridge,
reconstructing a school, or building a central market, or any other project determined by the villagers,
projects will build social capital by allowing villagers to work together -- as a community - to
collectively contribute to the reconstruction efforts. Making these choices is what is meant by
"community empowerment."
Community Grant Governance Structures: Projects to be issued a community grant will be chosen
through democratic procedures using development councils. The near total elimination of the previous



Page 6
administrative apparatus provides a unique opportunity to rebuild a local governance structures that
encourages democratic accountability from the bottom up. The first activity of the community
empowerment program will be to work with villagers to elect an interim development council made up of
equal numbers of men and women. Each village group will then pick a man and a woman from the
village council to participate in a sub-district level council that represents all of the villages within the
sub-district. Sub-district councils will appoint an independent group consisting of an executive officer, a
treasurer, and a secretary to manage sub-district affairs, maintain sub-district funds, and keep records. To
ensure greater independence and objectivity, these should remain outside of the council structure.
In the longer term, the development councils would have five key functions: (i) preparing and executing
village development plans that address local needs in agriculture, healthcare, education, communications,
income generating projects, and other projects as determined by the community; (ii) producing village codes
of conduct and resolving disputes; (iii) managing village funds; (iv) relaying the priority development needs
that cannot be met through local efforts to sub-districts and districts; and (iv) strengthening participation and
democratic practices.
First Community Grant: To issue the first community grant each village development council will work
with villagers (with the help of facilitators) to identify priority needs, which will be drawn up into a small
proposal. Once the facilitators confirm that the village councils have been formed and that basic rules
about popular participation in their selection have been followed, the project will release a set amount to
each sub-district. These funds will be divided equally among each member village in a one-time grant to
launch the village reconstruction process.
Table 1: Posto Grant Allocation Categories
<500                  Rp. I 00 million
(approx $14,286)
>,000-10,000            Rp. 200 million
(approx $ 28,571 )
>10,000                 Rp. 300 million
(approx $ 42,857)
Two percent of the initial grant is reserved to cover administrative start-up costs for the councils. It will
be used for local purchase of basic furniture and office supplies. Grant funding used for administrative
costs must be publicly posted.
The use of this initial grant funding is open. Provided that the procedures described in Annexes
12-15 are followed, the fund can be disbursed against items available in local markets. Money for this
initial stage will be disbursed through the PMU and the District Project Accountants, as per the project's
financial action plan. However, there are still many areas where very little is available in local markets.
For this reason, facilitators will also present villagers with a limited shopping list, from which they can
choose priority items. The procurement and delivery of these items will be facilitated by a procurement
agent under an interim contract financed by the project. Prices on the list will reflect their international
cost plus the cost of delivering them, or the costs of purchase in and shipping from Dili, whichever is
lower.
Subsequent Community Grants: For the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th grant cycles, there is no standard net allocation
per village; allocation within the sub district is through a competition. Two percent of the grant can be
used to support the village council's operating expenses, and another 2% of the sub-district grant can be
retained by the sub-district to support the council and operating unit. All information about how this
money is used will be publicly posted.



Page 7
Table 2: Posto Grant Allocation Categories
Population size of l'osto   (ranIt Amount
(1998 figtiucs)         (2fld, 3r1, and 4h' cycles)
<5,000                  $25,000
5,000-15,000            $50,000
15,000-25,000           $75,000
>25,000                 $100,000
Grant Procurement Procedures: The second cycle of community grants opens up the process to fully
open menus limited only by a small negative list of items prohibited by law and project conditions (i.e.
pesticides, arms, etc.). International shopping through the procurement agent is no longer an option. All
other procedures are the same as for the previous phase. If East Timor's internal distribution process has
improved, project procurement will shift to local shopping by the communities, who will elicit at least
three bids through local shopping. Note that the terms of reference for r the procurement agent, financed
under the project, will require that all international prices -- including their transportation costs, be
checked against weekly price surveys carried out in Dili.
Grant Proposal Verification and Technical Review: Verification of the village proposals for a
community grant takes place in three stages: first, a sub-district review by a team appointed by the sub-
district council; followed later by a technical review made by the district technical specialist hired by the
project. Technical reviews will include site visits by the review teams. The written report by the
reviewers will be read out loud in the open, decision-making meeting -- run by the sub-district council
and attended by all subproject proponents and other community members. The council discussion
evaluates competing proposals on the basis of their ability to reach the poor, their reflection of local
contributions in cash or in kind, and the group opinion of their technical soundness and relative merits.
Once the council has decided on which proposals merit funding from the sub-district grant, a final
meeting is held to explain the results of the discussion, and to begin preparation of implementation.
Grant Sub-Projects: Once community grant monies are awarded to fund a particular proposal, it
becomes a sub-project and each one is managed by its proponent group or aldea, with support from the
Posto Facilitator and CEP technical specialists. Subproject concepts in the first cycle will be made on a
simple, pre-printed format, after which still simple but more detailed proposals will be prepared that
explain a subproject's purpose, cost requirements, technical needs, etc. There is no limit to the number of
proposals that may be submitted by a village on behalf of aldeas and community groups to the sub-district
councils, however in the situation where two or more proposals are submitted, at least one must come
from a woman's group. Facilitators draw on a small preparation budget to request technical assistance for
more complex projects, such as expertise needed to assess project feasibility and to cost out construction.
All subprojects approved by the sub-district council for the second and third phases must make a
subproject agreement between the beneficiaries, and the village and sub-district councils that specifies the
date, cost, schedule of fund needs, O&M plan, community contribution, repayment schedule (for
economic projects) and compliance with safeguard policies. Subprojects can use up to a maximum of
10% of their funds for technical assistance through community contracting; all such TA must come from
lists approved by the district technical specialist and cannot come from the home village. Helped by the
PMU, villages will seek out three competing price quotations for all purchased items. In the project's first
year, this will often require shopping within the region (Australia, Singapore, Malaysia, China,
Philippines, etc.).. Rules for local price shopping and community procurement are part of the project
manual.
Grant Disbursement System: Money for the community grants will be withdrawn from accounts
maintained by UNTAET. Once each sub-district has agreed on the subprojects to be supported with its



Page 8
grant, they are endorsed by the facilitator and copies are sent to the District Administration, which can
release up to 50% of the total grant amount against the certified proposal. Withdrawals require the joint
presence and signature of male and female council representatives, and the facilitator. At the lowest levels
of the system, money is released by the council paymaster to two members of the project proponent.
Specimen signature forms that are simple to use yet provide multiple accountabilities were developed
during project preparation (see Annexes 13-14 for samples). Because there is no functioning banking or
other system for financial transfers, delivery of the money from Dili to the Districts may initially be
through a contract signed with the Peace Keeping Operations. Timorese financial managers certified by
the UINTAET Chief Financial Officer appointed to the project will be deployed to each district to support
the administrators.
Grant releases to UNTAET will be made from a Special Account established in the Banco Nacional
Ultramarino (UN and IDA accounts for East Timor are located in WestPac Bank). A full picture of
funding flows and reporting counter flows is provided in Annex 2, Figures 1-4.
Grants to Vulnerable Groups: The project's design includes a second, additional financial window
within the grant that is earmarked for highly vulnerable groups within each community. Vulnerable
groups are identified through on-site participatory rural appraisals managed by the facilitator together
with the communities. Many of these groups will be widows, elderly, and the disabled. Local-level
workshops organized by the facilitators and sub-district councils would make proposals for how this
money might best help their most highly vulnerable members. Technical training and backup for the
facilitators will include referral linkages to health programs and specialized NGOs for the more complex
cases of trauma and psychosocial problems. Grants under this window would cover the same eligibility
categories as those for the main grant (productive infrastructure, economic goods), with the addition of
allowing scholarships as an allowable expenditure. For each sub district, this window is activated after the
completion of disbursements for the second cycle of regular community grants.
Grant Funding Transparency: Transparency of community grants will be a central feature of the
project. Information needs to be accessible and easily understood by villagers. All financial information
will be publicly posted, and facilitator teams are expected to use a variety of media to convey information
about the project and its progress. The project includes a budget for translating graphical and written
materials into local languages. Community councils will be responsible for publicly posting project
information on large signboards. These signboards will be updated monthly. The national and district
technical teams will also develop both a computerized MIS (management information system) and a
registry of project complaints and their resolution which will also be public domain information.
Community Grant Allocation: Estimated use of community grant funding is as follows. Approximately
60% of funds consist of the community block grants. No UNTAET overhead is included since UNTAET
has its own trust fund for administration. Five percent of the grant goes to the district, sub district and
village councils (1%+2%+2%) to cover their local expenses. Thirty percent of the project's funds go to
service delivery contracts that cover facilitation, engineering, monitoring, procurement, and management.
Since an internal transportation system no longer exists in East Timor, the service delivery contracts must
reflect the full costs of purchasing rather than renting transportation. Additionally, cost estimates are
highly dependent on the progress of the reconstruction effort, therefore since shifts between these
categories are likely, mechanisms to adjust budgets are included in the project's design.
b.) Cultural Heritage ($2.0 million)
As noted by the JAM, world experience with post-conflict situations drives home many lessons about the
importance of rebuilding social capital and identifying culturally unifying activities from the very outset
of reconstruction. The cultural program supported through the CEP will encompass three core activities.
First, a small grants program managed by a non-profit Timorese cultural heritage trust -- drawn from civil
society, will provide support for community-based cultural development programs. These grants are each



Page 9
less than $1,000 and can be disbursed only against an eligibility list that has been approved by IDA.
Preliminary menu items include musical instruments, costumes, weaving supplies, performances, and
simple school sports equipment, but the list will be finalized through village-level consultations.
The second activity is the development of a national heritage and performance center. 'The center will
include a small vocational school, rotating displays, and a series of gallery and performance spaces where
international and Timorese artists and artisans can perform. The focus of the performance center will be
on living arts and outreach to the different Timorese communities. A historically valuable but burned out
building where the former national museum was housed has been assigned for this purpose. Design
consultants for this work will be selected through standard international procurement.
c.) Civil Society Support Fund ($1. 0 million)
Finally, the project includes a civil society support fund to aid in the development of regional and local
Timorese civil society groups such as national NGOs, student organizations, and church groups. These
organizations all play an important role in galvanizing the communities to work together on
reconstruction, thus contribute to the project's objective to build social capital and ensure inclusive
patterns of growth. . The civil society support fund will begin operations late in the project's first year
since regional communications are still too disrupted to complete proper consultations. IDA review of the
fund would include assessment of a governance structure, rule book, proposal formats, and methodology
for ex ante and ex post review. Eligible subproject categories are advocacy, reproductive health,
communications, dispute resolution, and environrmental protection. Eligible expenditures include a
maximum overhead of 35%. Approvals for pilot fund proposals would come from the national level
steering group, which will be elected by the Timorese NGO development community. The fund is not
expected to be ready until the second year of project implementation.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Three policy goals lie behind this project. One is to provide a sound foundation for the new country's
structure of local government. The key elements of this are to provide positive incentives, an
organizational structure, and downward accountabilities for village and sub-district governments. The
second goal of the project is to provide a framework for channeling aid and special programs into
communities beginning their reconstruction in a way that increases local ownership, and at the same time
uses and develops local capacities. The third objective is to facilitate a transition from the UN interim
administration into the independent government. The project thus emphasizes joint planning,
coordination, and hand over mechanisms throughout its structure to promote ownership and involvement
by the Timorese, but it also includes a full program of capacity development over its lifetime. Although
all three project components are closely linked, the local government strengthening component focuses
primarily on developing the framework for effective aid. The civil society support grants support
foundation mechanisms for bottom-up planning and non-governmental provision of community services.
Instead of the supporting public sector grants from a top-down administrative system, the structure of the
CEP will develop bottom-up responsibilities and community obligations. Additionally, the provisions of
technical and facilitation services will now come from NGOs and the private sector chosen or contracted
by the community itself, rather than from a centralized administration which is disconnected from the
needs and wants of the community.
3. Benefits and target population:
Approximately 80 % of East Timor's population live in rural sub-districts. The proposed project's scope
covers all of them. As a project with institutional objectives, the Community Empowerment Project will
provide a new framework for addressing issues of poverty reduction in East Timor, one that
complements formal targeting systems with a more participatory, bottom-up approach to identifying and
supporting vulnerable groups.



Page 1 0
Prior to the conflict, about 30% of East Timor's population fell below the poverty line threshold. Poverty
calculations made after the conflict have little meaning given the devastating scale of physical destruction
and the loss of household assets of all kinds. Close to 100% of the beneficiary population from the
proposed project will consist of the poor. Even within this program, there is a special program component
for widows to ensure the project reaches some of the poorest of the poor - in a context where everyone is
poor.
Direct benefits from the project will come from the labor intensive civil works being constructed under
the project. Assuming that 40% of the money is spent on wages and local rural wages are $2/day/person,
the project will provide 2.4 million workdays of paid labor. Less direct but longer-lasting benefits will
come from the impact on the economic infrastructure and the injection of capital to restart micro
businesses in the rural economy.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The formal administrative structures of the Indonesian govemment (district, sub-district, and village) will
remain in place for at least the first year and probably substantially longer during the interim UN
administration. These form the basis for project implementation.
Overall Coordination of Project: Overall policy coordination for the CEP is through the National
Consultative Committee (NCC). The proposal for the structure of coordination at the district level
includes an UNTAET -proposed committee led by the District Administrator, , the district technical
specialist, sub-district representatives to the district, CNRT, and the church and other civil society
representatives to form a district-level CEP support committee. At the sub-district level the committee
would include a sub-district facilitator, the sub-district council, and a UN volunteer reporting to UNTAET
to all form a sub-district committee. Finally, at the village level coordination will be through the elected
village council. The sub district and village councils will have equal numbers of men and women.
Project Management of Community Grants: Project management for the first component of the project
under Community Grants will be provided by two teams, the service delivery team and the technical
assistance team. These teams will be responsible for providing all of the necessary support to implement
the community grants program. This support would be provided under two contracts. The first would be
comprised of the facilitator teams, training teams, the administrative support for the teams, and
specialized technical assistance for project management, training of trainers, communications strategies
and socio-economic surveys. A second team will provide the technical support through a team of
technical facilitators at district or regional level. Although the contracts may be issued separately, the two
teams will work together and be coordinated by the team leader.
Additional staff required under the special community grants window for widows and vulnerable groups
will be identified and contracted separately but will be integrated into the structure of the team.
Project Management of Cultural Heritage: Project management of the second project component
under Cultural Heritage will be through: 1) a newly-created non-profit East Timor cultural heritage trust,
for the cultural grants program, and through 2) UNESCO, for the physical reconstruction of the national
heritage and performance center. . Eminent members of the Timorese community are currently forming
the non-profit trust and identifying potential Advisory Board members. This non-profit will undertake
the development of a manual for trust operations and grant-giving as soon as possible in preparation for
managing the cultural grants under the Cultural Heritage component. . UNESCO has prepared draft
MOUs for UNTAET and IDA and has seconded experts for the initial phase of physical reconstruction
and assessment of renovation options.



Page 1 1
Project Management of Civil Society Support Fund: Project management of the third project
component under the Civil Society Support Fund, will be through a national level steering group elected
by the Timorese NGO development community. The steering group will work to set up a governance
structure, rule book, proposal formats, and methodology for ex ante and ex postreview, all of which
would be subject to PMU and IDA approvals. The fund is expected to be ready in the second year of
project implementation.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The scale and thoroughness of the destruction constrain the options available to the project. Line
agencies no longer exist and none have been re-established. District government is also close to non-
existent, and UN TAE T estimates suggest that it will take at least a year before they can begin to function
at just the district level. There is no interim capacity in place for the lower levels being covered through
the proposed approach. Support through the already over-stretched NGO network is similarly impossible,
although close coordination is envisaged with NGOs working in the project areas.
An alternative approach that was considered during project preparation is a hybrid between the
community block grant model being proposed here, and a more classical social fund that in theory could
provide a higher quality of technical support. Trade-offs between the two approaches are difficult to
evaluate. The block grant approach will develop more local capacity and is more sustainable over the long
run. A second problem is that the small companies normally employed by social funds were virtually all
non-Timorese and no longer operate in East Timor. A social fund proposal would also have a
significantly longer start-up period because internal communications are so poor. In addition, during
discussions, UNTAET indicated that it wanted District Administrators to review each subproject
proposal, which would have posed an unmanageable strain on district administrations. Thus, this option
was rejected.
A strong argument for the current approach is that a similar and successful version of the proposed project
was already in place before the conflict, funded by the World Bank through The Kecamatan Development
Project (Ln. 4330-IND). The Kecamatan Development Project was covering 42 of East Timor's 62 sub-
districts, and had already completed a first year planning cycle when the conflict started. That project had
already demonstrated that (i) community and sub-district capacity was sufficient to implement the block
grant approach; (ii) a TA structure staffed by Timorese engineers and facilitators could deliver effective
facilitation and engineering services to communities, provided they had strong management and received
good training; (iii) use of direct grants, high community participation, and privatized TA bypassed many
of the negative incentives and opportunities for delays and leakage that had undermined the effectiveness
of most previous development programs in East Timor.
The project being proposed here will capitalize on the pre-existing training and experience of the
Kecamatan Development Project technical and field staff. The sub-districts being proposed for the first
phase of the new project are the same as those already covered by The Kecamatan Development Project.
The main differences between The Kecamatan Development Project and the proposed project are (i)
forming interim councils within villages and sub-districts; (ii) greater focus on capacity development
through training and closer involvement with NGOs; and (iii) alternative financial transfer systems since
the pre-existing banking system no longer exists. Nevertheless, despite the differences, having
communities and facilitators who are already familiar with the main concepts and methods will allow for
a much faster startup than would otherwise be the case.
The project exceeds average technical assistance ratios. About 25% of the project's estimated costs goes
to technical assistance and service contractors. The relatively high TA and service delivery ratios are
justified by the institutional development goals of the project in a context in which every single



Page 12
government and private sector institution has completely disappeared. Furthermore, virtually all forms of
transportation were destroyed, thus raising initial purchase costs for TA staff substantially. In most parts
of the country and for much of the project's lifetime, the community and sub-district councils formed
through the project will be the only functioning forum for community decision-making and action. This is
foreseen and accepted by both the interim administration under UNTAET, the NCC (combined
UNTAET and East Timorese coordinating body), and by the CNRT shadow administration. Benefits
from developing capable, democratically elected, and accountable representatives will extend well
beyond the lifetime of this project. Also, the technical assistance is expected to mobilize local resources
and help other (esp. NGO) projects focus on the needs identified through the villagers' participatory
planning process.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by IDA and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Suervision (Form 590
(IAfnancedpoetony
SECTOR ISSUE-
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)         Objective
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(D O )
~.IDA-financed                         __________________________
Indonesia: Kecamatan Development Project
(Ln. 4330)  S                       HS
Indonesia: Village Infrastructure Project 1I (Ln. 4100)  HS               HS
Other development agencies
AusAid, DFID   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PENDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
T'he proposed design reflects lessons leamned from three distinct kinds of projects: (i) projects in other
post-conflict situations; (ii) recent experiences with community development; and (iii) other projects in
East Timor and nearby parts of Indonesia and the Pacific Islands.
World Bank experience with post-conflict situations is recent, but extensive. Three lessons stand out.
First, implementation timetables are nearly always too ambitious. Delays will occur at all levels of the
system. Second, broad scope programs that include attention to cultural and local organizations variables
are more successfujl than those that maintain a narrow focus on engineering and technical design. Third,
organizational complexity is the downfall of post-conflict designs.
The proposed project has attempted to address these concemns in the following ways. Individual
subproject timetables are somewhat dc-linked from the overall project implementation plan. That is, while
there is an overall time framne to implement the program, that programn has great scope for lags in any one
effort. Since allocating the grants and implementing works in each sub district is independent of any other
sub district's lags. Meaning that lags caused by slow recovery, difficult procurement, internal conflict or
any other impediment in one sub-district will not affect progress in any other sub district. In terms of
organizational complexity, the project faces a common trade-off between an efficient, autonomous,
project implementation unit, and a more integrated design that brings about institutional growth and
sustainability of counterpart organizations. In the case of this project, however, the institutional goal is to



Page 13
build and fortify local institutions, not central ones, and the development of a Ministry of Community
Empowerment is not a necessary or welcomed outcome from this project.
The project builds on a broad range of world experience with community development. Three features not
already described in the overall presentation are key. First, financial flows need to be kept simple and
very fast. Most community programs are hindered by a variety of bureaucratic control mechanisms
designed for much larger programs, where multiple controls are needed to ensure quality and
accountability. Common examples of inappropriate application of these mechanisms to community
projects include long contract forms, mandatory bidding for micro-level purchases, and multi-step sign-
offs for block transfers. The proposed project, while still meeting all Bank accountability and
procurement standards, simplifies fund transfer and release through a range of simplified formats that
have been developed through collaboration with LOAAS, LEGEA, and CASU. Reviewing these formats
jointly with UNTAET will be the core of project appraisal activities.
Second, world experience highlights the importance of having a motivated actor in place who can gain
trust, provide information, and transmit questions from villagers. Typically this function is provided by
NGOs, but other experiences show that committed government staff (i.e. Brazil) and private sector
providers can also play this function. The proposed project recruits from all these sources.
Third, growing evidence supports the need for special measures to promote transparency and the timely
provisioning of useful information. This project ensures transparency and accountability by making the
act of publicizing information a role and responsibility of the village development councils.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UNTAET has sent a formal letter to the World Bank requesting the proposed project. It will be the first
donor financed project for the new government. Stakeholder support for the project concept is very high.
Preliminary consultations over an abbreviated version of this document were held during the Joint
Assessment Mission with UNTAET, CNRT, the Church, local NGOs, and international NGOs. Project
preparation continued this consultative process. The final project design includes mechanisms to
disseminate information and incorporate suggestions for improving the basic design through semi-annual
reviews.
NCC and CNRT support for the project is strong. CNRT has, in fact, organized a two step national
socialization program that covers the entire country. They have participated in all phases of project
identification, preparation and appraisal.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
The value added of IDA support is high. First, the WB now has an incomparable body of worldwide
expertise in implementing community-driven investment funds. Second, the Bank's Kecamatan project
funded and supervised the training and facilitator management for the core team that will be
implementing the current project. The Bank thus has institutional knowledge for most of the proposed
arrangements that can be used to the advantage of project preparation. Third, because of the urgent need
to get activities started on the ground and because of the complex overarching institutional arrangements
still emerging from the UNTAET interim administration, IDA (and ADB) agreement to cut through
bureaucratic obstacles will be key to helping the project support the overall UN effort through the
transitional period. Fourth, the Bank can help UNTAET mobilize long-term donor support for the
community empowerment program as lessons are learned from the startup period and can be transformed
into an institutionalized approach to local government in the future.



Page 14
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
] Cost-Benefit Analysis NPV=US$       million; ERR=    %
] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[     ] Other (specify)
[XX] Summarize issues below (e.g., fiscal impact, pricing distortions)
[] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [XX ] None
This project was prepared in close collaboration with the Joint Assessment Mission's macroeconomic
team, therefore no major distortions or subsidy issues are expected. Nevertheless, there are several
economic issues that will have an effect on project decisions. East Timor has selected the US dollar as its
currency, which eliminates the need for a Central Bank and slashes nominal interest rates. Second,
because there are no banks left, all interest rates are being determined through the informal sector and a
highly volatile local micro-economic environment. Repayment schedules for communities using the grant
for economic activities are thus difficult to establish. It is also not yet possible to propose any linkages to
a more institutionalized micro-credit scheme. Third, the speed with which the internal distribution system
recovers will affect local choices and opportunities. Localized pricing distortions are highly likely over
the next several years.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):     NPV=US$                     million; FRR=       %
The increase in village economic life will provide both short-term and long-term economic benefits. No
public cost recovery is needed since the project provides grants to communities. The fiscal impact of
assisting poor sub-districts and villages is minimized because (i) high rates of transparency and ownership
will minimize leakage; (ii) community contributions will stretch the funds considerably further than
would otherwise be possible; (iii) communities are responsible for managing and maintaining the
infrastructure that they build. Because all project costs will be 100% financed from international grant
funds, there are no fiscal or deadweight costs from the project for the Government of East Timor.
Economic activities financed by the project will normally be repaid within 18 months through a flexible
repayment schedule keyed to reflect the agricultural calendar. Repayments will be to the executive unit
established by the village level development council. Money that is repaid should revolve through the
same process of competitive selection among proposals. Repayment schedules and the status of
repayment will be publicly posted. Villages that have not repaid their obligations are barred from further
participation in the project until their accounts are settled.
Infrastructure will normally provide full cost recovery within five to seven years, making nornal
assumptions about roads, irrigation, water supply and other infrastructure issues in East Timor. However,
the project manual will include regulations prohibiting the erection of community tariff facilities
(common in many areas), which will effectively end local cost recovery for maintenance work but which
has distorting impacts on local trade. Instead, communities must agree to maintain facilities through
labor-intensive, self-assistance activities.
Most national level financial issues are irrelevant for this project. Project accounting and management
will meet all IDA and UN standards. Financial controls will follow the Bank-financed Kecamatan
Development Project model. Technical assistance training will include requirements in financial
management. A roving audit team at the national level will make unannounced spot financial and
technical audits, covering an estimated 5% of all subprojects. However, it is expected that the most
effective controls will come from the communities, through the project's transparency mechanisms.
Communities that do not comply with project guidelines will be given a period to remedy deficits, after
which they will be dropped by the project.



Page 15
3. Technical:
The project will face a number of technical challenges which will likely affect the project's outcomes,
particularly those of the community development works. Because the decision-making and
implementation of activities takes place at the lowest level (the village or povoacao level) and services
and facilities available at that level are extremely limited, the fundamental challenge is to ensure access to
adequate technical resources at each stage of the process. At the start of the project and for an indefinite
period during its implementation, support available at higher levels is also still extremely limited. The
project design accommodates this reality in three ways: firstly, by restricting the technical content of
initial activities, secondly by structured training of all members of the project implementing team, and
thirdly through establishing mechanisms for the project team to access external technical support at the
District level.
The first round of grants will involve material assistance only, which will tend to focus on household
level recovery and reconstruction effort. The second round of grant-funded activities will be selected
from a limited menu, generally focused on rehabilitation of community infrastructure and facilities. For
both rounds, which will take place over the first eight months of the project, the technical skills
requirements are expected to be within the capabilities which exist at and below the sub-district (village
or posto) level, supplemented by those able to provided through the project structure during that period.
The menu of open choice is introduced towards the end of the first year, by which time the technical
resources available will be considerably improved, both by design as described below, and through the
evolutionary development of public and private sector infrastructure (though this is expected, it is not a
requirement for project success).
At commencement the project team comprises personnel who have been engaged on the previous KDP, in
sufficient numbers to start activities in five Districts (22 Postos). The personnel required to expand
implementation to all Districts will be recruited over the first two months, drawing as much as possible
on former field staff of other community-based programs in East Timor. Notwithstanding this
experience, it is assumed that skill levels on entry are relatively low. All will receive training under the
project. The technical component of the training program is structured to provide field teams with
progressively more skills over the first eight months of the program, and to replenish and reinforce that
capability with regular training for the remainder of the program. Particular attention is focused on the
technical training of the District level engineers, and the individuals and organizations who will assist
communities to develop their concepts into designed and costed proposals.
The third element of technical risk management is the establishment of linkages to external technical
support. The design of the former KDP was contingent on project field staff being able to access such
support from district and higher level government agencies. On commencement of this project, these
agencies do not exist, nor are replacement or equivalent resources likely to be established in the formal
public sector in the foreseeable future. However, there are international NGO-led technical resources
available at District level on project commencement, and are expected to be present in most Districts for
some months. In addition, there is a proposal currently being considered under bilateral funding to place
similar technical resources in all Districts for the remainder of the project period. Arrangements are in
hand for the project team to be able to access technical support through these resources. In the event that
similar resources are established in the public sector, they would be an additional source of technical
support, but the project design is not dependent on them in the first instance.
The project implementation method includes documentation of technical details in manuals. Basic field
equipment is also provided during project implementation to allow the planning and design of the most
likely common works to a reasonable technical standards. Examples of topics covered include public
buildings (schools, clinics, meeting halls), piped water supply, access roads, culverts and small bridges,
and irrigation and drainage works. Field equipment held at the District level will include hand-held



Page 16
altimeters and walking tape, so that planning and design of such works can be based on measured heights
and distances using basic tools. Procurement methods have been devised which will allow project
implementers to access necessary materials of reasonable quality.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agencies: The proposed grant is for East Timor with UNTAET acting as the overall executor
of the grant through their relevant offices. UNTAET will transfer executing responsibility for the different
components to other agencies. Technical assistance will be passed to consultants for the community
grants, a national steering committee will oversee the civil society grants, and a Governing Board of the
newly-formed national cultural heritage trust will oversee the cultural heritage and social reconciliation
activities. Other contracts will be directly with UNTAET to assist in disbursement of community grants
through their decentralized administrative system located at the level of the District Administrators'
offices. Overall coordination of the project within UNTAET will be with the Office of Governance and
Territorial Administration.
Project Management: The District Administrator's Office will be assisted by a Project Management
Unit, which will take on the day to day management of the project on behalf of UNTAET. The unit will
be comprised of a project chief financial officer (PCFO) contracted directly by UJNTAET, a Timorese
deputy PCFO, a project management specialist, and relevant support staff. This PMU will coordinate
with the project management teams for each of the three components of the project and will liaise with
UNTAET on their behalf.
District Project Accountants (DPA) placed in each district will be part of the PMU's structure, but would
be located in the offices of the district administrators. The project accountants will have responsibility for
overseeing and reporting on the financial status of the project, and will also assist the District
Administrators with overall accounting of the offices budget. A financial management action plan for the
project, and TORs for the DPA, were agreed upon with UJNTAET during project negotiations and made
part of the conditions of effectiveness of the Grant Agreement.
During the initial months of the first grant cycle, the PMU will also be supported by an interim
Procurement Agent contracted specifically for the purpose of facilitating procurement of goods needed
but not yet available in local markets. By month two of the project, the UJNTAET Procurement Unit,
whose establishment and training is being organized by World Bank staff members seconded from
Washington, is expected to be able to take up the primary burden of procurement assistance needed in the
CEP Community Grants program.
Project management for the Community Grants component will be provided by two teams: the service
delivery team and the technical assistance team. These teams will be responsible for providing all of the
necessary support to implement the community grants program. This support would be provided under
two contracts. The first would be comprised of the facilitator teams, training teams, the administrative
support for the teams, and specialized technical assistance for project management, training of trainers,
communications strategies and socio-economic surveys. A second team will be contracted through
competitive bidding procedures to provide the technical support through a team of technical facilitators at
the district level. Although the contracts will be separate, the two teams will work together and be
coordinated by the team leader.
Additional staff required under the special community grants component window for widows and
vulnerable groups will be identified and contracted separately but will be integrated into the structure of
the team. During the first three to six months of the project, a consultant will prepare a strategic plan for
this special window of the community grants, with the goal of initiating these activities by month seven
of the project at the latest.



Page 17
Project management of Cultural Heritage component will be through: 1) a newly-created non-profit East
Timor cultural heritage trust, for the cultural grants program and through 2) UNESCO, for the physical
reconstruction of the national heritage and performance center. Eminent members of the Timorese
community are currently forming the non-profit trust and identifying potential Advisory Board members,
and will undertake the development of a manual for trust operations and grant-giving as soon as possible
in preparation for managing the cultural grants under the cultural heritage component of the project.
UNESCO has prepared draft MOUs for UNTAET and the IDA and has seconded experts for the initial
phase of physical reconstruction and assessment of renovation options.
Project management of the Civil Society Support Fund component, will be through a national level
steering group elected by the Timorese NGO development community. The steering group will work to
set up a governance structure, rule book, proposal formats, and methodology for ex ante and ex post
review, all of which would be subject to PMU and IDA approvals. The fund is expected to be ready by
the second year of project implementation.
Relationship with Timorese Leadership: CNRT have been fully involved in the development of the
project since its inception and will provide continuous input and advice on the project throughout. The
intention will be to have the project entirely implemented by Timorese by the end of the third year. The
aim is to assist as far as possible in establishing the foundations for sustainable bottom-up development
planning and implementation. Socialization of the project will be carried out jointly by CNRT and
project consultants. The structures created under the project will be expected to coordinate closely with
the local CNRT structures.
Institutional Coordination: Overall policy coordination for the CEP is through the National
Consultative Committee. Discussions are ongoing with regard to the best mechanisms for coordination at
the District level, such as CEP sub-district councils being represented on a development planning sub-
cortimittee of a district advisory committee chaired by the UNTAET District Administrator. At the sub-
district level CEP may form a committee would include a sub-district facilitator, the sub-district council,
and a UN volunteer reporting to UNTAET to all form a sub-district committee. Finally, at the village
level coordination will be through the elected village council. The sub-district and village councils will
have equal numbers of men and women.
5. Social:
Three social issues may have an affect on the project's outcome: (i) the extent to which democratically
elected councils could come into conflict with traditional leadership and/or the resistance movement
structures, which are still quite strong; (ii) the extent to which the one-man, one-woman voting
requirements may be reconciled with institutionalized and cultural issues of gender discrimination,
present in both the modern and traditional parts of Timorese society; and (iii) the extent to which local
councils can be integrated into the formal civil service structures, which until now have only existed at
the district level.
The key issue regarding the democratically elected councils is how much these structures will contradict
with local organizational patterns which are already present. Traditional authority in many parts of East
Timor eroded under the Indonesian administration. Furthermore, many of today's villages are a product of
coerced settlement and may not hold together following independence. Some administrative boundary
adjustments have already taken place. Because the core groups in this dynamic are kin-based and operate
within more or less homogenous hamlets, the project design recommends that each hamlet receive equal
representation in the village council. Existing village leaders need to be treated with respect during the
election process while encouraged to refrain from intervening. Guarding the integrity of the electoral
process is a key role for the facilitators.



Page 18
Gender issues are an issue of shared concern for the UNTAET government as well as CNRT, both of
which have gender equity policies. How to implement the policy in a cultural environment where women
have few institutional voices is not easy. CNRT has begun to organize grassroots women's organizations,
which have caught on widely. Several international and national NGOs have launched women's networks
of different kinds. Yet women's institutional access remains limited, and the public space for expressing
their views on community priorities is small. In a context where reconstruction must begin with basic
needs, women's lack of institutional access distorts both poverty efforts and the designs of many large
projects, which will misgauge priorities and targeting unless beneficiaries are directly involved. Adding
equal numbers of women to the representative councils will not solve the gender problem, but not having
women on them will ensure that there is no progress at all. Ensuring this balance is therefore a strict
condition concerning the validity of the village and sub district council elections. Specific
recommendations for gender inclusion are detailed in Annex 16.
Since the formal administrative structure of the transitional government is not yet decided, details on the
linkages between the sub-district councils and the district administration cannot yet be finalized.
However, a preliminary structure is emerging. The district administrator will place development concerns
under one of two officers that report directly to his/her office. Within that office will be a planning group
that represents the sectors and will include the two candidates selected by the sub-district council.
However, in the broader picture, introducing elected bodies at several tiers of government will improve
linkages by giving communities a reason to collaborate with governments. Similarly, direct provision of
grant funding to the bottommost tiers of the system will introduce demand-led services and a greater
sense of local ownership and accountability.
Much of the solution for the project's social issues will lie at the level of practical procedures, rather than
theory. The project's staff, especially the facilitators, must be well-trained in participatory techniques so
that community's natural organizations enter into the decision-making process and real needs get
expressed. Experience prior to independence highlights the critical role that the village and sub district
facilitators will play, particularly during the startup periods of the project. Planning methodologies for
this project draw on both field ethnographies and several current studies on social capital and
development. Nevertheless, a learning curve is expected here since the communities' historical experience
is anything but one of self-determination in development. Care must be given in the project's earliest
stages that credibility gets established and a full sense of ownership given to the communities. To ensure
effective community development, TORs and evaluation criteria for the project's technical assistance
reflect the need for top-quality experience in specialized training. . The project design, by not linking
planning or disbursements to integrated timetables, gives participating communities the flexibility to
reach decisions when they are ready.
Achievement of the project's govemance objectives will be through a range of strategies, however,
special emphasis will be given to the promotion of transparency. At the village level, transparency will
begin with the initial election processes which will require minimum times for preparation, public
identification of candidates and posting of results. In all financial transactions two members of the
proponent group and the paymaster of the supervising Council will be required to both sign for, and
collect, grant funds. The financial details of all projects approved will be displayed publicly as will the
subsequent receipts and payments related to that project. All Council meetings will encourage observation
of non-elected members. To ensure Councils can record and publish meaningful figures, the project will
provide basic bookkeeping-training to all Councils and will also provide each with a safe in view of the
absence of banking facilities.
To encourage public scrutiny and the reporting of any suspected anomalies, at the commencement of the
project facilitators will disseminate a "Bill of Rights" which will explain the villagers' rights to
information and access to all project details. Limited funds will also be provided to support local NGOs.
Their job will be to scrutinize project operations and outputs and to publicize their observations.
Comparable measures will be used to ensure transparency at the sub-district level.



Page 19
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   [ ] A    [X] B    []C
Major Environmental Risks: There are no major environmental risks associated with this project.
Individual project activities are small and do not involve environmentally damaging technologies.
Other Environmental Risks: Minor environmental risks include those normally associated with
community-based infrastructure. Examples include tertiary road cut and fill, small holder agricultural
improvement, and discharges from village cottage industries developed through the project. These will be
mitigated through the project's negative list, and through normal environmental engineering practices that
will be built into the project manual.
Positive environmental benefits are also expected to be correspondingly slight, with one exception. Much
of the initial grant is expected to go to core building materials and tools. At present, delays in the
provision of housing materials and the complete absence of cement in East Timor means that all houses
are being rebuilt from local sources, primarily wood. With an estimated 80,000 houses to reconstruct on a
dry and deforested island, the deforestation likely to ensue is substantial. If expectations that initial funds
will go primarily towards rebuilding, benefits for the remaining tree cover could become significant.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups: This project draws strongly on participatory
methodologies. At the macro-level, despite the relatively short time for preparation, all key stakeholders
were consulted and most have been involved in different aspects of the project's design. These include
UN agencies, international and national NGOs, the church, CNRT's national and regional commands, and
the UNTAET-NCC transitional planning council. A key series of consultations took place between
project staff and CNRT during late preparation. The outcome of that consultation has been the current
regulation establishing local govemance structures. CNRT has also organized a nationwide project
socialization program that began in early February, 2000. Project methodologies call for additional
consultations at each administrative level, beginning with the first overview of the project and continuing
on a regular basis throughout implementation. These consultations are part of the project staff's formal
terms-of-reference.
At the more "micro" level, consultations of necessity have been more sporadic. Nevertheless, several
focus groups have already been held with past and future participants. A series of consultations held with
women facilitators where of special relevance to the current design. During these consultations better
methodologies for involving poor women in project activities were discussed and have led to (i)
improvements in the training modules for facilitators and technical specialists; and (ii) the development of
a separate track to give the necessary flexibility for the widows' work.
Other Key Stakeholders: Other key stakeholders for this project include most of the donor community.
Consultations have been held with donors in a broad range of fora. There is strong support for the single-
window local governance framework that this project will provide. Developing within-village facilitation
skills and a bottom-up planning processes is an important pre-condition for many of the subsequent
programs that will be funded by bilateral and NGO agencies.



Page 20
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability is an open question that depends almost entirely on the still-unknown future revenue
stream of an independent East Timor. Political support within CNRT's top levels is very strong. The
project is designed to make the main investment in local government training, equipment, and facilitation
during the UNTAET government, thus leaving an enhanced local Timorese capacity at the end of the
project itself. Program costs are expected to drop off significantly by Year Three. By that time,
development of banking and micro-credit activities will allow a reduction in the size of the overall grant,
which should by then be confined to public goods. Some of the engineering and technical assistance can
also be internalized into the grant. Rough estimates place the sustainable budget cost for covering the
entire country at approximately 8-10% of the national budget.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk- Rating  ---iRisk..Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Revised local government structure has been    H        UNTAET: Draft regulation as a
fully accepted by CNRT and UNTAET                       condition of negotiations
CNRT: CNRT resolution, national
and regional socialization programs
Community plans may be taken over by elites   M         High transparency and participation
throughout process
Acceptable quality infrastructure is produced    M      Strong technical support program
Financial transfers take place without delay  M         UNTAET to pass all necessary
administrative orders prior to
effectiveness
Communities can maintain products         M             O&M plan a pre-condition of sub-
project approval
From Components to Outputs
Goods are delivered without delay         M             Use of procurement agent
Logistical arrangements are developed that  H           Freight forwarder/distribution
minimize delay                                          contracts, purchase of project-
owned district level trucks
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Undoubtedly the main source of controversy would be any delay in project startup. Project socialization
among Timorese stakeholders has been extensive, and expectations are high. Risks associated with the
first phases of the project have to do with simmering social conflict. Local power holders may well feel
threatened by the formation of local councils, despite strong CNRT endorsement. These risks have been
discussed with the major stakeholders.



Page 21
Cases of localized corruption are likely and must be dealt with immediately. A second possible source of
controversy would be delay in releasing funds or procuring goods once villages have made their decision
about how to spend the community grants. However well justified, delays caused by administrative,
inefficiency will not be well received by Timorese communities who have invested a great deal of time in
the bottom-up planning process. Other sources of delay (and thus controversy) are likely to focus on
bottlenecks caused by procurement and distribution. Risk minimization measures include provisions to
contract a procurement agent so that procurement can be efficient and professionally managed.
G: Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
1.    The Recipient shall select Project Sub-districts that meet the following criteria, namely, that 50%
or more of the population living in the sub-district prior to August 1999, remain in or has returned to such
sub-district.
2.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the relevant Project
Management Sub-Unit:
(a)  inform the District Administrator of each Project Sub-district of the appointment of a sub-
district facilitator for purposes of the Project by not later than April 30 in each year, commencing April
30, 2000, and until completion of the Project; and
(b)  issue to the Project Sub-districts, by not later than April 30 in each year, commencing April
30, 2000, public information aimed at disclosing to villagers and their representatives, all administrative,
financial, environmental, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation
and implementation of Sub-projects; and make such information, including the Project Manual, freely
available for consultation at the Sub-district office.
3.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause Sub-projects in Project Sub-
districts to be selected in accordance with the following criteria:
(a)  each Sub-project proposed under Part A.1 of the Project shall be a public infrastructure
investment project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically
justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b)  each Sub-project proposed under Part A.2 of the Project shall be an income-generating
investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically justified;
(c)  each Sub-project under Part A.3 of the Project for Highly Vulnerable Groups shall be a
project or an activity that is technically and economically justified;
(d)  the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount of Sub-Grants
and Credits approved in the relevant Project Sub-district does not exceed the aggregate of:
(i)  $25,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 5,000 or less;
(ii)  $50,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 15,000 or less but more than
5,000;
(iii) $75,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 25,000 or less but more than
15,000; and



Page 22
(iv) $100,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is more than 25,000.
(e)  no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos and
pesticides), arms or drugs, or (iii) include the financing of government salaries.
4.    In carrying out Part A of the Project the Recipient shall, through the relevant Project Management
Sub-Unit, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the District technical
specialist shall have completed a technical review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the
following:
(a)  the criteria described in paragraph 3 of this Schedule have been complied with;
(b)  necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been obtained, including a
Sub-Grant or Credit and any voluntary contributions to be made by villagers;
(c)  appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that would minimize
any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected Persons have been considered in
the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual;
(d) the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, and, if
applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are satisfactory to the
Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 8 of
this Schedule;
(e)  a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan for the Sub-
project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual; and
(f)  a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Sub-project has been
prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Trustee and has been included in the Sub-project
agreement, which shall include assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the
preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the village, and the
identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
5.    In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the relevant Project Management
Sub-Unit to ensure that:
(a)  Credits are made on terms and conditions agreed with the Trustee and set forth in the
Project Manual;
(b)  a revolving fund is established and maintained by the Conselho do Suco in the Project Sub-
districts in accordance with procedures agreed with the Trustee and set forth in the Project Manual; and
(c)  Credits are repaid into the respective Conselho do Suco account established for such
revolving funds in the respective Conselho do Posto.
6.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the relevant Project
Management Sub-Unit:
(a)  cause each Conselho do Suco and Borrowers to carry out the Sub-projects selected in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Schedule in accordance with the Project Manual and the respective
Sub-project agreements;



Page 23
(b)  ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made available to the
Sub-district facilitators and the District technical specialists and applied in the carrying out of Sub-
projects; and
(c)  periodically update the Project Manual, if needed, in agreement with the Trustee.
7.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project Management Sub-Unit
to ensure that:
(a)  each Sub-project is reviewed by the Sub-district facilitator upon completion and that a
certificate of Sub-project completion shall be issued by the District technical specialist upon a finding of
satisfactory Sub-project completion in accordance with the Project Manual and approved designs; and
(b)  if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, except for cases of force
majeure under Credits, the Conselho do Posto shall recover the amounts disbursed under the respective
Sub-Grant or Credit.
8.    In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)  take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to
avoid the displacement of said villagers;
(b)  where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers is unavoidable under
a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before carrying out the works which would result in
such acquisition or displacement, make available to such villagers, compensation in accordance with the
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)  in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by a Sub-project:
(i)  prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Trustee for approval; and
(ii) prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all Affected Persons shall
have been compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
9.     The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project:
(a)  prepare a Cultural Heritage Support Manual for the implementation of Part B.2 of Project
and provide such Manual to the Trustee for approval;
(b) thereafter, issue the Manual and periodically update such Manual as may be necessary.
10.    The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a)  prepare a Civil Society Support Manual for the implementation of Part C of Project and
provide such Manual to the Trustee for approval;
(b)  thereafter, issue the Manual and periodically update such Manual as may be necessary.
11.    The Recipient shall:
(a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and



Page 24
(b)    cause the Project Management Unit to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reports on the implementation of the Project covering the preceding six
months, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each year, starting September 30, 2000, and until
the completion of the Project.
H: Readiness for Implementation
Draft financial and technical manuals were reviewed and improved during the project's appraisal. All
involved simple procedures and technologies, though some revisions occurred following the completion
of appraisal and other revisions will be needed during implementation. Manual revisions will be reviewed
by Bank supervision. Issues that will face the project's technical staff will be (i) whether additional,
appropriate technologies can be made available to the communities; (ii) whether guidelines for operations
and maintenance can be improved; and (iii) whether timely procurement and delivery of construction
materials is possible. All manuals must eventually be translated from Indonesian into Tetun.
The original team of KDP facilitators has joined the current project preparation team, first as volunteers
and subsequently as members of Community Aid Abroad (financed through an ADB technical assistance
grant and IDA preparation funds). Forty village or posto facilitators were trained and deployed to the first
22 sub districts by February 21. The five districts containing these postos have already been selected from
a list agreed by UNTAET and CNRT.
The team has started early implementation activities already, including establishing a project office and
recruiting candidates through national advertising (TOR, review criteria, and standard contract formats
were reviewed by the Bank). A training curriculum and local price and readiness surveys are also
underway. Starting from February 2nd, eight facilitators together with at least eight CNRT counterparts
began a national socialization campaign to introduce the project to every district in the country.
Alternative project circulars and community socialization protocols are being field-tested and a final
version will be issued soon. Terms of reference for the District level Technical Assistance have been
prepared and will be ready for tender by the conclusion of negotiations.
A draft regulation establishing the councils has been reviewed by CNRT and has been approved by
UNTAET. Great delays were faced due to the lack of readiness in the higher levels of the system.
UNTAET took a tremendous amount of time to pass the necessary instructions to codify the financial
transfer and accounting mechanisms. These had to be finalized prior to the completion of negotiations.
Response to the cultural heritage component has been electric. One week after the appraisal mission's
first consultation on the performance center, the building was transferred to the project, a short-term site
plan developed, and protection works started. Working groups were formed for each cultural activity, and
the first, temporary exhibition (a photographic documentary and reference book library) is expected to be
inaugurated at the beginning of May. . UNESCO has drafted an MOU with UNTAET to execute the
culture program, including establishment of an East Timor cultural endowment fund. Contracts were
signed with the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory to conserve the remainder of the
Timorese national collection. The program's steering committee includes UNTAET, CNRT, the Church,
NGOs, student organizations, and traditional leaders.
[ ] 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the full first year's activities are not yet complete. Project
procurement readiness is as follows:
(i)    The project preparation consultants will be financed for the first four months of project
implementation through an ADB technical assistance grant. Requests have been made to
the RPA for a direct appointment continuation into project implementation;



Page 25
(ii)   Procurement documents for the community grant shopping list will be finished prior to
negotiations. No international advertising is involved;
(iii)   Procurement documents for the procurement agent will be based on the pro-forma
guidelines described in the World Bank's "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (1997), para. 3.15.
(iv)   Procurement documents for community-based procurement once market conditions allow
local shopping were reviewed by the mission. They are attached as Annex 13.
(v)    Procurement documents for the project's technical assistance have been drafted and will
be ready prior to grant effectiveness.
(vi)   Procurement documents for the cultural heritage component are not needed until Month 7
of the first year;
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
The draft PIP is acceptable and is attached as Annex 12.
4. The following items were considered part of Grant conditions (Section G):
(i)   Regulation authorizing District Administrators to receive and release funds;
(ii)   Regulation instructing Chief Administrative Officer to release funds against receipt of
request for disbursement and statement of expenditures;
(iii)  Regulation confirming project financial flows and reporting requirements, as described in
this PAD.
1: Compliance with IDA Policies
The project complies with all other applicable IDA policies.
Team Leader: Scott Guggenheim
Sector Manager/Director: Zafer Ecevit
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland



ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
East Timor: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
-- erarc   of            nKeyPerc                   Monitoring and      CrticfalA ssumpt ons
Objectve1s          1      1 ASI 11A1j; A   A        W: S ndicators  Evaluation,    ___________________
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector / Country Reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Establish equitable local  % of absolute poor         NA                     The proposed UNTAET
governance structures and                             Poverty Assessment     minimum wage rate is
strengthen social capital                                                    several current real rates;
project assumptions are that
Alleviate poverty                                                            this rate will not be applied.
Project Development Objective:  Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:  (from Objective to Goal)
Establish governance      # of participating sub     UNTAET PMU records  The project's development
coqncils                   districts                                         objectives and all four
Year 1: 20 subdistricts  District Administration   components are fully in line
Year 2 60 subdistricts    treasury records     with the JAM report on
Community Empowerment
Alleviate poverty
Transfers to villages      Sub district financial    Risks
Cycle 1: $1,0750,000 in   management records    (i) Procurement and
small grants to villages                          distribution of physical
Cycles 2, 3, 4:        Sub district and village   goods is too difficult;
$2,150,000 per cycle in   field visits
grants to 62 subdistricts for                     (ii) Community planning
allocation to village and                         capacity is low;
hamlet projects            Independent monitoring
(iii) UNTAET capacity
within the District
Administration Office is low
Increase social capital    Villages participating in oral  Annual report
history program



Output from each component:   Output Indicators:     Project Reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component 1: Establishment                                                  Critical risks and
of local governance councils  Establishment of councils    Election completion  assumptions:
for inclusive development    Completion of community   summary
planning and management   development plans          Participatory reviews    Community grants
(i) Revised local government
Technical audits      structure has been fully
Public infrastructure                                MIS summary in annual accepted by CNRT and
Subproject certifications by  report             UNTAET
engineer                  Annual District
Economic investments                                 Administration review   (ii) Community plans may
# proposals by type and                          be taken over by local and
amount                    MIS summary in annual regional elites
Benefit returns           report
Repayment rates                                  (iii) Poor technical quality of
investments
Component 2:
Development of social     Production of community    Annual report          Cultural heritage
capital through group     archives                                          (i) inappropriate
activities and community                                                    methodology;
reconciliation program.    Establishment of national    Completion report
cultural performance center                      (ii) cost overruns
Events held
Component 3: Support for
local, innovative work oni                                                  Innovations fund
civil society involvement in                                                (i) Excess complexity for
better local government    # of proposals funded.    Annual summary report  fund release;
(ii) No evaluation of results
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:       (from Components to Outputs)
components:               component)
Community Grants and       19.5 million              PAD/SAP
Strengthening for Local
Government
Cultural Heritage           2.0 million              PAD/SAP
Civil Society Support Fund    1.0 million            PAD/SAP



ANNEX 2
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
FUND AND REPORTING FLOWS
| UNTAET   TRUST FUND    First   le
P ocurement                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~("shopping list" limited
UNTAET   Of cure                                   Special                 World Bank/ADB   choice of materials)
Account
1/ Special account in
Westpac Bank has initial
Goods ordered by                                                                  deposit of $5 million topped
Proc. Officer (5)       p  Goods arrive in Dili (6)                              up by reimbursements based
on SOEs when the balance
]  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~~~~drops below a threshold of
District                    l.------                                                -    DistTrict                  $2.5 million. Payments can
.    Recapituation                                                                     be made by UNTAET to
Administrators                    of needs (4)                                                                      suppliers direct from this
.account
2/ At the first or second
meeting of the Conselho do
II    do                                                  District    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suco a decision is made
Conselho  'do                  Meeting held to  |                 ___               Sub  District    regarding which items they
l       ratify (3)                                                                        want the project to provide
Posto                  I                                                                                         from a limited list (a
_____________________ j                                                   mechanism for "other" choice
allows flexibility
Posto~   uO           d~cusspriorfties           GoodsVillage                                         3/  List ratified by Conselho
Conselho                       Meeting held to                                                                   do Posto, summary made of
Conselhio   ]o   I             discuss priorities                 ___ cuss prioritiesneeds to this level.
and decide onproec
Suco                           selection (2)               Goods arrive in village (7)                              st rict            project
officer and give summary of
.............                        ~~~~needs to district level
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ............................... .........-est lsrc ee
. ...... ................. ... ...                                   ~~~5/   Goods    ordered   by
1IGroup  11- - - - -------  Group                                                                           procurement officer (30%
I            ~~~advance paid to supplier)
6/ Goods arrive in Dill (40%
paid to supplier)
7/ Goods arrive on site
(final 30% paid to supplier)



ANNEX 2
UNTAET                           TRUST FUND                                         Fund flows I
UNTAET    Special                                                                                               Initial disbursements
Account (1)                      World Bank/ADB
$ 50 thousand
Initial Payments (3)            Initial Deposit (2)                                    1/ The UNTAET administration
in Dili opens a Special
v  IF                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Account for the project in
District                           Of X                                                                      the Westpac Bank
l I                                               District                      2/ An initial deposit of $5
Administrators                     Safe                                                                      million is transferred into
the Special Account  (SA) on
behalf of the project
y                      ~~~~~~~Withdrawal (4)
F            ]                                                                                  3/ Initial payment of
Conseiho  do                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$50,000 is sent through the
Conselho  do                   Pro ject                                                                   payroll system to District
Posto                          Safe                     ------Sub  District                               Administrators (DA's)
4/ Funds are taken from DAs
by the Sub District
+                          s    Withdrawals (5)                                                 Facilitator  (SDF) with 2
elected representatives of
the Conselho do Posto in
[SCo slo           doP oe t------Vilag                                                                     accordance with budget plans
| Suco                 ll    Safe                      - - - - - - - - - - Vlilage                        5/ Funds are then taken by
the (SDFI and Conselho do
Posto to representatives of
Funds provided according                                       the Conselho do Suco
to group needs (6)                                             according to their budget
plans as per proposals
- -- -   - - - -   Group6/ Conselho do Suco
Group                           alctsfnst h
...............................................................  .................. .......................      a l l c l e    u d    l   h
groups
|| Supplier || E;311 Contractor  || Paymen/7/First round of purchases
Labor                          r~~~~~~~~~~aymnents/purchiases (7)                         can be made by the groups in
Supplier]                                           r  1eahv _lg



ANNEX 2
SOE and
I  UNTAET  payment | TRUST FUND                                                      Fund flows II
UNTAET    ~~Special                            request loT U T U DStatements of expenditure (SOE)
||"UNTAET||  Apccin                                    |(12)    World Bank/ADB   reporting nd requests
SOE and request for
next payment (11)                                               [All levels send simple
monthly balance statements
to the level above].
District                         District                                            .      .                   8/ The groups record
Administrators   Accounts~~~~~~~~~District                                                expenditures and report
Administrators                  Accounts                                        -                                - -  - - - Dlstrict these using standard formats
attaching receipts to the
Conselho do Suco
v                           |    SOE and request for next payment ( 10)
9/ When the Suco funds drop
Conselho do    Sub District                                                               .   .              below $ 500 a request is
- -  -  -  -                iSrit               ade to the Conselho do
[Posto                               --   SubD  Ditit                                                         Posto for the next payment,
Accounts                                                                         standard account summary of
all types of expenditures
SOE and request for next payment (9)                             will be attached
10/ When the Posto funds
Conselho  do           V la edrop below $ 2,000 a request
Conselho do                  Village                                            .                            is made to the DA for the
Suco  Accounts                                   Village                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~next payment, standard
Suco                   J Accou nts                                          Village                          recap. of transfers and
related expenditures will be
Groups provide                                                   attached
receipts/invoices (8)                                            11/ When the DAs funds drop
II                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~below $ 10,000 a request is
Group_________ lmade to the national level
- - - - - - - - - - Group       for the next payment,
......................................... ....-......                                             standard    recap.  of    transfers
will be attached
12/ When the special account
Supplier           L                Contractor                                                                              drops below $ 2,500,000 a
request is made to transfer
funds from the Trust Fund



ANNEX 2
UNTAET I   IITRUSTFUND 11   Fund flows III
UNTAET                      Spcl                                                                               Routine disbursements
UlUl Ll   SpcialWorld Bank/ADB
Accountl
_        ~~~~Max. $4.5 mill'ionv
Max $ 45,000                    reimbursements fr13/ If SA falls below
Payments (14)                                                                          threshold and request/SOE
has been submitted, the
Trust fund restores the
District                                  cebalance by transferring up
Administrators            Safe                    ----------    DistTiCt                            to $4.5 million to the SA
Administrators ISafeDise
14/ If the funds held by the
DA falls below threshold and
Max. $5,000 disbursements (15)                                  requests/SOEs have been
l 1                                                                  submitted, the DAs can
withdraw up to $45 thousand
Conselho  do                   Prje t(based on recapitulated
Posto                          Safe                     ---------- Sub District    budget requirements)
15/ If the funds held by the
Max. $ 1,000 disbursements (16)                                Conselho do Posto fall below
threshold and requests/SOEs
r              fl ,                                                                 have been submitted, they
can withdraw up to $ 5,000
IConselho do                    Project------Vlaetosn
Suco                           Safe                                                                        16/ If the funds held by the
Conselho do Suco fall below
threshold and requests/SOEs
Funds provided according                                       have been submitted, they
to group needs ( 17)                                           can withdraw up to $ 1,000
Group Group  |17/ Funds given to groups
- - - --  - - -   Groupaccording to agreed plans
............ .................... ...................................and...actualnd   ac      needsed
1                                                                                      I +  T  l 18/ Payments/purchases made
||Supplier  ||ContracLPayments/purchases (18)                                                                           |      as agreed                    |
S upplier   ~~~~    _______________~~1   C o tr ct r



ANNEX 2
UNTAET                         TRUSTFUND   1  Fund flows IV
Special                        World Bank/ADB
Account                                                                                  ise
19/ At the level of
contractors and suppliers,
v                                                                    final payment  (min 30% of
total) will be withheld
District                           Office                                                                    until goods, service or
..  - - - - - - - - - -    DistTict               works have been certified
Administrators                     Safe                                                                       appropriate by Sub District
Facilitator (District level
project staff for contracts
Final 10% held until certified (22)                           over $1,000)
[  ~~~~~~~~1L  do1 ~~~~~~~~~~~20/ At the group level,
Conselho do                     Project                                                                    final payment (min 30% of
osto            Safe~~~~~~~~~------   Sub   District                                       total) will be withheld
Posto                          Safe                          - - - - -  Sub Dlstrlct    until goods, service or
works have been certified
appropriate by Sub District
Final 10%helduntilcertified (21)                               Facilitator  (District level
c 1                                                                  project staff for contracts
Conselho do                     Proje                                                                      over $2,000)
Suco                           Safe                     ---------- Village                                 21/At the level of Suco
I S uco                        Safe                                        Village                         final payment  (min 10% of
.                                                                                               total) will be withheld
until activities certified
Final 30%/ held until certified (2 0)                           completed by Sub District
Facilitator
'kl                                                                 ,_ up22/At the level of Posto
- - - - - - - - - -  uroup                         final payment  (min 10% of
...................................................... . .. ................r                               total)   will   be     withheld
until activities certified
1 t         T                                                                            completed by District level
Supplier  I   Labor                 Contractor                Final 30% held until certified (19)                       l project staff.



Illustrative Implementation Schedule: Community Grants
Creation of village development councils                       GroupA locations: Apr-May 2000
GopBlocations: July-Aug 2000
|   ( Conselho do Suco)                         | Group C locations: Sept-Oct 2000
Creation of subdistrict development councils   GroupAlocations: May2000
Group B locations: Aug 2000
(Conselho  do Posto)                               Group C locations: Oct 2000
FIRST  CYCLE                                  Group A locations: June-Aug 2000
(reconstruction or economic                        Group B locations: Sept-Nov 2000
activities, focus on local materials)                 Group C locations: Nov 2000-Jan 2001
SECOND  CYCLE                                   Group A locations: Jun-Dec 2000
("open menu" wide choice of activities,                    Group B locations: Sept 2000-Mar 2001
limited negative menu)                             Group C locations: Nov 2000-May 2001
Group A locations: Feb-Oct 2001 &
TLH11RD    CYCLE OU-Feb-Oct 2002
THIRD  CYC rr   I    LE                      Group B locations: Apr-Dec 2001 &
("open menu, limited negative list)                                     Mar-Nov 2002
Group C locations: June 2001-Feb 2002 &
May-Dec 2002



Annex2                                              Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
Implementation Schedule for Component One
2000                                            2001                                           2002
Jan  Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Septl Oct Nov Dec Jan  Feb IMar lApr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan  Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec
Pro1ect re aration
Firstleen Locations                                       _ *       _              _ _       _           __            _         _    
pConseho elections
First Cycle
Preparation_
implementation-
Second Cycle-
Preparation
lmplem entation.                                                   -
Preparation __
Implementation                                                                                                                                          -
Preparation                                                                                                                       
smplementati2n              --
Second Cycle                        _ i
Preparation- - - -----
Implementation- - - --
Preparation
lrrplementatio~n- - - --
Third Locations
Conselho elections
Preparation--
Implementation--- -
Second Cycle.
Preparation-
Implementation-
Third Cycle                                                               
Preparation                                                               



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
urams 10                                                                vltl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ge 
Widows &                                                                                         Subdtistit
Community Grant Vulnerable                                                                          Village    Equlpment &   Oyther Small
Combined Total D:bsrsnmnnt                        Disbursements  Groups                                  Technical Assistance                         FaclItatIon   Furniture  Grants
Total        QCBS         NS           SS        QBS           IS            IS           IS          Total        IS         SS           NS         QBS         QCBS         SS          NS           SS
Works          $       800,000  $ 800,000                                                                              $   800,000                                                   $  800,000
Goods          $    14,159,705             $ 1,080,841                         $13,078,864  $  10,800,000 $ 2,130,000  $   809,888  $ 148,864               $ 681,024                                       $  419,817
Services       $     5,289,134  $ 628,000              $2,064,098  $ 2,597,038                                         $  4,695,104            $ 1,470,068             $ 2,597,036  $  628,000 $ 594,029
Misc           $     1,250,000                         $1,250,000                                                                                                                                                       $ 1,250,000
Totals         S    21,498,838 $1,428,000 $1,0,841  $3314098$ 2,597,036  913,078,864  $  10,800,000  $ 2,130,000  $  6,304,992  $ 148,864  $ 1,470,068  $ 661,024  $ 2,597,036  $1,428,000  $ 594,029  $  419,817  $ 1,250,000
Plus ADB-TA    $       990,000
TOTAL          $  22,488,838
Annex 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7/118O), 1:08 PM



Combined Disbursement Schedule
Grants to
.Wdows &                               Village & Subdlst
Combined Total    CommunIty Grant Vulnerble    Technical             Equipment &   Othr Small
_______   Dlsburaement  Dlsburaments  Groupa      Assbtance    Village Facilitation Furn  Grnts       Fiscal Year
2000      JAN   $           -   $                                        $        -   $       -   $        -
FEB   $      350,817  $                                       $     16,651  $  332,167  $    2,000
MAR   $         8,280  $       -                $        -   $       6,280  $      -   $    2,000
APR   $      355,322  $    330,000                            $     23,322  $      -   $      2,000
MAY   $       66,784  $        -                              $     18,959  $   43,825  $    4,000
JUN    $    1,759,991  $    860,000  $      -   $   884,551  $      11,440  $      -   $    4,000  $ 2,541,194
JUL   $      938,781  $    860,000                            $     28,956  $   43,825  $     6,000
AUG   $       565,285  $    537,500  $      -                 $     21,785  $       -   $    6,000
SEP   $    1,982,151  $  1,075,000  $      -   $   884,551  $       16,600  $      -   $      6,000
OCT   $    1,293,621  $    537,500  $  725,000                $     25,121  $       -   $     6,000
NOV   $      312,785  $        -   $  285,000                 $     21,785  $      -   $    6,000
DEC   $      907,151  $        -                $   884,551  $      16,600  $      -   $    6,000
Annual  $    8,540,968  $  4,200,000  $ 1,010,000  $  2,653,653  $    207,499  $  419,817  $   50,000
2001      JAN    $       62,450  $        -                              $     12,450              $    50,000
FEB   $       82,370  $        -                              $     32,370              $   50,000
MAR   $    2,354,640  $  1,650,000              $   642,190  $      12,450  _      _         50,000
APR   $    1,722,410  $  1,650,000                            $    22,410               $    50,000
MAY   $       62,450  $        -                              $     12,450              $    50,000
JUN   $    1,144,640  $        -   $  440,000  $   642,190  $       12,450              $    50,000
JUL   $      357,410  $        -   $  285,000                 $     22,410              $    50,000
AUG   S       347,450  $        -   $  285,000                $     12,450              $    50,000
SEP   $      704,640  $        -                $   642,190  $      12,450              $    50,000
OCT   $       72,410  $        -   $        -                 $    22,410               $    50,000
NOV   $       62,450  $        -                              $     12,450              $   50,000
DEC   $      704,640  $        -                  $   642,190  $    12,450              $   50,000
Annual  $    7,677,962  $  3,300,000  $ 1,010,000  $  2,568,762  $    199,200  $         $  600,000
2002      JAN   $        72,175  $        -                              $     22,175              $    50,000
FEB  |        62,450  $        -  |             _          _ $      12,450              $   50,000
MAR   $    1,983,095  $  1,650,000 |            $   270,645  $      12,450              $   50,000
APR   $    1,721,981  $  1,650,000             | __|___$            21,981              $   50,000
MAY   $       62,450  $         -  |           |           _ $      12,450              $    50,000
JUN    $     443,095  $        -   $  110,000  $   270,645  $       12,450              $    50,000  $ 6,594,245
JUL   $       71,788  $        -   $        -                 $     21,788              $   50,000
AUG   $        62,450  $            $       -                 $     12,450              $    50,000
SEP   $      333,095  $                         $   270,645  $      12,450              $   50,000
OCT   $       71,788  $             $       -                 $     21,788              $   50,000
NOV   $       62,450  $                                       $     12,450              $   50,000
DEC   $      333,095  $        _                $   270,645  $      12,450              $   50,000  $  934,664
Annual  $    5,279,909  $  3,300,000  $  110,000  $  1,082,578  $    187,331  $     -   $  600,000
3-Year Total $   21,498,838
Combined Disb                                                                                                  7/18100, 12:42 PM



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Macroeconomic Context
This project was prepared in close collaboration with the Joint Assessment Mission's
macroeconomic team, therefore no major distortions or subsidy issues are expected. Nevertheless, there
are several economic issues that will have an effect on project decisions:
* First, East Timor has selected the U.S. dollar as its currency, which eliminates the need for a Central
Bank and slashes nominal interest rates.
* Second, because there are no banks left, all interest rates are being determined through the informal
sector and a highly volatile local micro-economic environtnent. Repayment schedules for
communities using the grant for economic activities are thus difficult to establish. It is also not yet
possible to propose any linkages to a more institutionalized micro-credit scheme.
* Third, the speed with which the internal distribution system recovers will affect local choices and
opportunities. Localized pricing distortions are highly likely over the next several years
Anticipated Microeconomic Benefits
Because the guiding principle of the "open menu" will be driving village and sub-district decisions
about allocation of resources under CEP's community grants component, an a priori analysis of costs and
benefits or cost-effectiveness is not as practical as it would be under a typical grant- or loan-financed
development project where inputs and outputs are determined by the project design.
The analysis on the following page provides a detailed cost-effectiveness analysis of one typical
village-level development project that is expected to be popular among CEP participant communities as
an indication of the expected economic strength of CEP. (Note that these types of proxy analyses do not
account for any of the social or economic benefits that will accrue from the expanded trading networks
nurtured by CEP's community procurement.)



ANNEX 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis for Sample CEP Village Project
Village Water Supply
Village Water Supply Projects: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
1.  Parameters (estimates from proxy villages in Indonesia since Timor data unreliable and unavailable)
Average Population Covered per Village               1796          Avg. grant per village($)  $   15,000.00
Morbidity Rate                                     0.9794          Avg. health grant village ($)  $    2,500.00
Case Fatality Rate                               0.001198          Total Grant                $   17,500.00
Morbid Days Lost per Case                             3.4
Average total project cost per Village              45500
Interest rate (social for project streams)           0.05
Discount rate (rural, private, for life)             0.05
Reduction in Morbidity with Project                  0.28
Average age of Death                                  4.5
Life Expectancy (to age)                               69
II.  Intermediate Calculations
Annualized Cost per Village:         Total Project       Grant Only
Development                                          2275      875
Recurrent (maintenance of WSS and H)                 1625     1625
Total Costs                                          3900     2500
HYLL per death:
Life expect - Avg age death                          64.5
Discounted Years Lost per Death (.05)         19.20488437
III. Annual Numbers per Village            Before             Change
Cases                                                1759      493
Deaths                                               2.11     0.59
Years Lost to Morbidity                                16        5
Years Lost to Mortality                                40       11
Total Years Lost                                       57       16
IV. Cost per:                              Total Project*     Grant Only
Death Avoided                                        6610     4237
Avoided Healthy Year Lost                             245      157
*This using the entire cost of project



Annex 5: Financial Summary
East Timor: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
Years Ending June 30
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
2000      2001      2002      2003
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.5       12.5      6.5        1.0
Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs           2.5      12.5       6.5       1.0      22.5
Financing
IDA                        1.0      11.5      6.5        1.0
Government
Co-financiers**            1.5       1.0
Others
Total Project Financing       2.5      12.5       6.5       1.0      22.5
Main assumptions:    ** Includes ADB TA grant of $990,000 and Japanese PHRD Grant of
$1,550,000 covering Year One and part of Year Two
Project Financing Plan (1998 -1999) in US$ Millions



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
East Timor: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will follow the "Procurement under IBRD loans
and IDA Credits," dated January, 1995, revised January and August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999 and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January, 1999. The
procurement of consultants will use the World Bank Standard Request for Proposal,
Selection of Consultants dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999 and the
associated Standard Forms of contract."
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Under the Community Grants
Grant funds from the project can be used for services, consultants, goods, training,
scholarships, and works, as these are needed to prepare and implement subprojects.
Proposals for subprojects will be approved by the oversight consultant and two members
of the elected councils. Except for the initial emergency reconstruction grant, proposals
will be attached to an Implementation Agreement signed by the members of the
subproject proponent and the posto Facilitator, who is delegated by the District
Administrator to act as the Project Manager.
Because of East Timor's extraordinary destruction, procurement under the grants
anticipates eventual recovery of the internal market. For the project's first year, goods
will initially be procured by a procurement agent located in the subPMU who will use
International Shopping to develop shopping lists and to identify, as needed, freight
forwarders who can deliver palleted goods to communities. Procurement requests will be
aggregated at the district level and will thus amount to a maximum of approximately
$75,000 (Phase 1) or $250,000 (Phase 2) per package. Where and when this option is not
necessary, national shopping procedures will phase in as local markets develop and
goods become available.
Procurement will be reviewed in each year's annual review workshop. When and
as the local market re-appears, local shopping through community procurement
procedures will be adopted using the forms contained in Annexes 12-14 of this appraisal
report. These forms have been used elsewhere and represent best practice procedure for
community-based local shopping. Procurement amounts at this level are small and highly
dispersed, in no case exceeding $7,500.
Works. Most works undertaken under this project will use community
participation to mobilize and pay labor. A very small number of works may need to be
procured through small works, which can be contracted through lump sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained locally from at least 3 local
contractors (including NGOs) in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, start and
completion dates, a basic agreement format acceptable to the Bank, and relevant



drawings. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work. There will be no restrictions on participation in bidding.
Consultants
There are five main TA contracts involved in the community grants component:
(i)     a national management consultant recruited through an ADB Technical
Assistance Grant;
(ii)    a short-term subPMU recruited through sole-source appointment to
support procurement, disbursements, and monitoring during the
emergency startup period
(iii)    an international management consultant team hired through QCBS
from the IDA grant to take over from the ADB grant-financed team;
(iv)    a technical support team hired nationally through QCBS; and
(v)     a facilitators' management contract hired either through QBS (if a firm)
or through SS/CQ procedures (if facilitators are hired as individual
consultants to UNTAET).
Elaboration of these contracts follows.
National management consultants for the Project Management Unit and the posto
level facilitators will initially be appointed through sole-source selection. Rationale for
the sole-source selection is (i) need for immediate selection; (ii) continuation of tasks
developed from preparation work (highlighted by the emergency); (iii) extremely limited
availability of qualified alternatives given requirements of language competency, field
presence, and familiarity with emergency and community development.
This contract is financed by the Asian Development Bank through a technical
assistance direct appointment and is not included in IDA grant allocations. Their contract
will be for six months. Because of bottlenecks in UNTAET tendering, however, it may
become necessary to make a direct appointment "extension" of these management
services for one or two months through a sole-source appointment of the same contractor
while the follow-on international tender is reviewed and the winner mobilized. RPA
approval for this approach has been given.
Depending on discussions held through the annual programming meetings and
progress in the transition, after the first round of disbursements, this contract may be split
into international and national packages, with the national package being handed over to
the developing East Timor independent government. This procedure would use QCBS
selection for the international consultants and either QBS or sole-source appointment for
the Timorese facilitators, depending on whether they are procured through a firm or as
individual service contractors to UNTAET. Procurement also includes $0.1 million of
local shopping to restore a building to house the project team.
A short-term sole-source appointment will also be provided (RPA clearance has
been obtained) to establish a subPMU within UNTAET that will provide financial
management, disbursement, and monitoring services. Reasons for the direct appointment
are because of the emergency start-up requirements. This contract will end once the 12
district financial officers hired by UNTAET have been trained and deployed to the
districts. Estimated cost of this subPMU contract is US$0.5 million.



Technical support for the project engineering under a separate contract will be
procured by individual consultant appointments to the project PMU. These contracts
involve thirteen national technical specialists (one per district), supplementary
administrative staff, and short-term international inputs for technical training and
specialized skills (approx. 8-10 months).
Consultants for the community-based rehabilitation work will be hired based on
consultants qualifications. The rationales are that (i) upstream work in community
preparation and acceptance is needed for successful follow-on work; and (ii) there are no
competing firms that can offer comparable services (Tetun and Makassai speaking
professionals, advanced training).
Cultural Heritage
Consultants Architectural design and contracting consultants for building
restoration will be selected through CQ based on a list of experienced experts prepared by
IJNESCO. Estimated cost is $0.2 million. A firm with international experience and
demonstrated expertise in heritage preservation will carry out the design and construction
work. This contract, which is estimated to cost approximately $0.8 million for external
preservation, will be for a QCBS restoration contract.
Civil Society Support Program
Consultants Contracts under this component will be by direct appointment. All
contracts are less than $7,500.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Considering the very small amounts involved in any one expenditure under grants and the
delays that prior review by UNTAET and the IDA would entail, the PM[J will do the
prior review, before countersigning. Prior review of all goods and works in excess of
$200,000, and Consultant requirements in excess of $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individuals will be required. For later stages, when communities undertake local
shopping themselves, the district specialist will conduct the prior reviews, with ex post
review and audits carried out on a sample basis. The Bank will conduct frequent visits
during project startup
Disbursement
Allocation of Grant proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Special account:



Annex 6, Table A: : First Phase Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
NBF
1. Works                         LS                            0.1              0.1
(0.1)            (0.1)
2. Subprojects under            Other                         3.65              3.65
Posto-level grants                                           (3.65)            (3.65
3. Services                      SS                           0.74      1.0     3.35
NCB                           0.20
QCBS                          1,41
(2.35)           (2.35)
4. Goods                          IS                           0.9              0.9
(0.9)            (0.9)
5. Misc                          SS                            1.5              1.50
(1.5)           (1.50)
6. Interest                                    .                                0.0
7. Front-end Fee                                l                               0.0
TOTAL                                                          7.0              78.0
TOTAL         ___                                             (7.0)            (7.0)
Total, 3-phase Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements2
(in US$ million equivalent)
.-
.________ _____     _  NBF
1. Works                       QCBS                            0.8              0.8
LS                           0.1               0.1
(0.9)            (0.9)
2. Subprojects under            Other                         12.88            12.88
Posto-level grants                                           (12.88)
(12.88)
3. Services                      SS                            1.83     1.0     6.40
NCB                           0.20
QCBS                          3,37
(5.40)           (5.40)
4. Goods                          IS                           0.9              0.9
(0.9)            (0.9)
5. Misc                          SS                            1.5              1.50
(1.5)           (1.50)
TOTAL                                                         21.48            22.50
(21.50)
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6, Table Al
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                                                      Total
Expenditure Category                                                                     Cost
QCBS   QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ       Other      NBF
A. Firms
TA for Community
Grants               2.80
Technical Advisors in                                                SS:0.8
Districts
SubPMU/Disbursement                                                  SS: 0.5
Services
Audits                  0.2
Services for
Performance Center      0.80                                         SS: 0.20
Social Rehabilitation                                         0.3    SS: 0.75
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review3
7 r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. - .       ...   .   .... .. .. ..
Expeniditure           Contract Valu.e.  Procuremet  Cl ontracts Subject--
---l:  :Categorytj0fj04T0l!:40000t   (Threshiold)-    Me-o           Prior Revie
..                                                                  ............
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Works
0.1                  LS                   0.1
0.8               QCBS                    0.8
2. Subprojects under
Posto-level grants
12.88                 LS
3. Services
3.80              QCBS                    3.80
2.75                  SS
4. Goods
1.5                   IS                  1.4
5. Misc.
_________________    _      L      =1.25              SS                   1.25
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                7.35
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement risk is considered to be at the high end of average despite the low capacity
of the Borrower because of the use of procurement expertise in the project's subPMU.
Project supervision will include procurement expertise in each mission over the first year
(approx. 3), when all the large contracts will be let. Thereafter procurement expertise will
be included at least once per year.
Annex 6, Table C: First Phase Allocation of Grant Proceeds
IExpenditure Category          Amount in US$ million          Financin lPercentage
Sub district grants                      3.7                         100
Consultant services                      2.0                         100
Works/Goods                              1.25                        100
Unallocated                            0.05                        100
Total Project Costs                      7.0                         100
3 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6, Table Cl: Three Phase Allocation of Grant Proceeds
,Ex. ,,penditure Categor   A-m' ount:inUS$:million:.,.a',     ni"'ing. Pi rcentg
Sub district grants                   13.0                      100
Consultant services                   5.5                       100
Works/Goods                           1.5                       100
Training                          0.5                       100
Unallocated                          1.0                      100
Total Project Costs                  21.5                        100



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
East Timor: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
JProect Schedule .(a) Pl ned                                       -bj   A  Htua1
FiCEREREi~~~~~~~~~~~ .EE . .. . . . ,,.  . . . . .   ! E L g ! t : : A t i ; : : g g : i   , S E E ................  . . ,. . . . .L } ...... ;iDiii:tf   :020   2S40 ;
________-________________-__..............  (At final PCD   !stage) -
Time taken to prepare the project                    3.5                   2.5
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/15/1999            11/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                      1/25/2000             11/25/2000
Negotiations                                      2/22/,00             2/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     3/31/00              3/23/2000
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Namne                                            Specialt........
Jacqueline Pomeroy                                 Economist
Gillian M. Brown                                   Gender Specialist
Sarah Cliffe                                       Economist
Indra Raja                                         Staff support specialist
Anna Wetterberg                                    Economist
Karin I. Nordlander                                Lawyer
Scott Guggenheim                                   Anthropologist
Abdul Haji                                         Financial Management
Seven Burgess                                      Institutions
IDavid Weeks                                       Architect
Philippe DeLonghe                                  Cultural Heritage (UNESCO
Richard Hopkins                                    Civil Engineer
Natascha Meden                                     Cultural Heritage
Leni Dharmawan                                     Training
Lisa Campeau                                       Participation
Frida Johansen                                     Poverty economist
Peter Dukes                                        Procurement Specialist
Laura Bailey                                       Economist, Project Management
Appraisal was supported by an Asian Development Bank mission led by Mr. Neil O'Sullivan. Its
members included Anne Sweetser (monitoring), Daniel Ponzi (Environment), Michael Heppel
(Governance), and Bruce (macro economics). Appraisal was also supported by CNRT partners,
most especially Emilia Pires (planning), and Milena Pires (institutions, gender)



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
East Timor: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Annex 12
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoire 12/19/99
BTO 12/16/99 to Kristalina Georgieva
Joint Assessment Mission, overview and sectoral reports on Civil Service and
Community Empowerment (w/annexes)
C. Other
Documents in project file include:
(i)  Project Technical manual (draft and improved)
(ii)  ADB TA request proposal
(iii)  Year 1 Kecamatan Development Project supervision reports
(iv)  Letters to UNTAET
(v)  Report on District Administration Support Needs (T. Longford)
(vi)  Cultural Heritage Strategy
(vii) Museum Protection Site Plan
(viii) Review of local govermnent in East Timor (P. Evers)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9: Statement of Grants and Credits
$7,000,000 IDA Grant -- February 21, 2000
$1,550,000 Japanese Trust Fund Grant - February 17, 2000



Annex 10: Country at a Sllance
4  -t  ,  -
S  i                         .           -'SMj:e;:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
--~~~~~ 



Annex 11
UNITED NATIONS                                       NATIONS UNIES
United Nations Transitional Administration         Administration Transitoire des Nations Unies
in East Timor                                      au Timor Oriental
UNTAET
UNTAET/REG/2000/
2000
draft  20 February 18h00
REGULATION NO. 2000/
ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF VILLAGE AND SUB DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT
COUNCILS
The Special Representative of the Secretary-General (hereinafter: Transitional
Administrator),
Pursuant to the authority given to him under United Nations Security Council
resolution 1272 (1999) of 25 October 1999,
Taking into account United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
(UNTAET) Regulation No. 1999/1 of 27 November 1999 on the Authority of the Transitional
Administration in East Timor,
After consultation in the National Consultative Council,
For the purpose of promoting effective, participatory village level development which
is representative and accountable, and which operates in cooperation with the District
Administration of UNTAET, on an interim basis,
Promulgates the following:
Section 1
Village and Sub District Development Councils
1.1   A system for the establishment of Village Development Councils (hereinafter Village
Council) and Sub District Development Councils (hereinafter Sub District Council) in East
Timor is set out in the present regulation.
1.2   The Village and Sub District Councils shall have responsibility for the allocation of
development funds as defined in the present regulation.
1.3   The Village and Sub District Councils shall not exercise the legislative, executive or
judicial power of government. The establishment of Village and Sub District Councils shall



not prejudice any constitutional or institutional development to be provided by UNTAET in
East Timor.
1.4   The Village and Sub District Councils shall not duplicate or replace the role of the
traditional and local leaders of such villages and sub-districts.
Section 2
Composition of Village Councils
2.1   Village Councils shall consist of at least two democratically selected representatives
from each village hamlet who shall be responsible for collectively planning and managing
village-level development activities. The Village Council shall consist of an equal number of
women and men, and the total number of members shall be more than ten but not more than
sixty.
2.2   Village Councils may accept, hold, and manage funds on behalf of the village.
Village Council members shall be accountable to their constituents and shall consult routinely
with traditional and local leaders of their village.
Section 3
Composition of Sub District Councils
3.1   Sub District Councils shall consist of at least two representatives of each village
democratically selected by and from the members of the respective Village Councils. The Sub
District Council shall consist of an approximately equal number of women and men, and the
total number of members shall be more than ten but not more than forty.
3.2   Sub District Councils may accept, hold, and manage fimds on behalf of the villages in
the sub-district. Sub District Council members shall be accountable to their respective
Village Councils and shall consult routinely with traditional and local leaders of their sub-
district.
Section 4
Preparation of the Selection of Village Council Members
4.1   The selection of hamlet representatives to the Village Council shall be organized by a
selection committee consisting of the hamlet chief and two trusted members, one male and
one female, of the hamlet community.
4.2   The selection committee shall register nominees for selection and shall confirm that
these nominees fulfil the conditions set out in Section 4.3 (c). Prior to the date of the
democratic selection process, such date and the names of all nominees shall be publicized
throughout the hamlet in at least two locally used languages.
4.3   The selection committee and shall organize the democratic selection process and shall:
(a)   prior to the first two democratic selection processes in any village, provide the
hamlet community with both an oral and a written explanation of the role and
responsibilities of the Village Council and the tasks of its members;



(b)   give the hamlet community at least two weeks advance notice of the date on
which the democratic selection process of hamlet representatives to the Village
Council will take place. This notification shall be repeated two days before the
date of the said process;
(c)   ask resident members of the hamlet to nominate female and male candidates
who fulfill the following conditions:
(i)   that they are over 18 years of age;
(ii)  that they are usually resident in the hamlet;
(iii) that they are not a village or sub-district officer;
(iv)  that they have sufficient time available for Village Council work.
Section 5
Selection of Representatives to the Village Council
5.1    At the first democratic selection process of the Village Council in any village, hamlet
representatives are chosen for an initial term of one year. After the first democratic selection
process, representatives are chosen for three-year terms. A representative shall not serve for
more than three terms.
5.2   The selection committee shall organize an open meeting of the hamlet community to
choose representatives. At least 50% of the resident hamlet residents with the right to vote
must be present in order to hold a valid selection process.
5.3   Every hamlet resident, male and female, older than 17, or married, has the right to
vote in the democratic selection process. At the meeting mentioned in section 5.2 above, the
hamlet residents with a right to vote determine:
(a)   whether representatives will be chosen by raising of hands or by secret ballot;
and
(b)   who will represent the harnlet on the Village Council.
5.4   The counting of votes and announcement of results shall take place immediately after
the democratic selection process and shall take place in public. Results of the said process
shall be communicated immediately to traditional and local leaders in the village and to the
District Administrator. The results shall remain posted at a prominent place in the village for
at least two weeks.
Section 6
First meeting of Village Council
6.1    Representatives of hamlets selected in accordance with Section 5 shall constitute a
Village Council, and shall be members of the Village Council. They shall choose from
among their ranks a chairperson and a deputy chairperson. The chairperson is ex officio one
of the representatives of the village on the Sub District Council. The chairperson shall appoint
a bookkeeper.



6.2   The selection committee referred to in paragraph 4.1 shall convene the first meeting of
all hamlet representatives.
Section 7
Role of the Village Council
7.1   The Village Council shall identify, plan and carry out development activities in the
village that utilize funds allocated for village development, either from the village budget or
from outside the village. Development activities initiated at the hamlet level, with the self-
generated funds of a hamlet, do not require the approval of the Village Council.
7.2   The Village Council may receive, on behalf of the hamlets in the village, development
funds or materials from any sources for distribution to groups or hamlets in accordance with
Village Council decisions. The Council may carry out development programs and contracts.
7.3   The Council shall:
(a)   draw up an annual development work plan for the village based on
(i)   proposals prepared by the hamlets or informal groups;
(ii)  the annual village budget for development activities;
(iii)  an assessment of top-down development programs;
(b)   submit, twice per year, a written and oral progress evaluation report to the
traditional and local village leaders and the village community. The oral
report to the community shall include ample opportunity for the community to
ask questions;
(c)   convene public meetings at hamlet or village level to discuss development
plans and activities;
(d)   choose representatives, at least one of whom shall be a woman, to the Sub
District Council.
Section 8
Village Council Decisions
8.1   Village Councils shall take decisions either through consensus or, if no consensus can
be reached, by majority vote.
8.2   Decisions are only made in meetings where all hamlets are represented by at least one
member and where at least 60% of the members are present.
8.3   All meetings of the Village Council shall be open to the public, but only
democratically selected Village Council members may vote.
8.4   Decisions of the Village Council shall be recorded in writing. Decisions shall be
disseminated in public.



Section 9
Village Monitoring Team
9.1   The Village Council shall participate in a village monitoring team, which shall
monitor the implementation of all construction and development activities in the village.
9.2   The village monitoring team will normally consist of the village head, a representative
of the Council of Elders, and a representative of the Village Council, chosen from among its
members.
9.3   If poor workmanship or bad practice is identified in village level development activity,
the village team shall take appropriate measures to correct poor workmanship or bad practice.
The village monitoring team shall report to the Sub District Council and the District
Administrator any instance of poor workmanship by parties from outside the village.
Section 10
Selecting Representatives to the sub-district
10.1  The Sub District Council shall consist of between ten and forty representatives,
consisting of the chairpersons of the Village Councils, and members of Village Councils who
have been democratically selected to represent the interests of their village by the other
members of their respective Village Councils.
10.2  The meetings of the Sub District Council shall be chaired by a person elected from
among its members.
10.3  Before every meeting of the Sub District Council, the Village Council shall choose a
number of its members, at least one of whom shall be a woman, to represent the village on the
Sub District Council. These representatives need not always be the same persons, although
the elected chairperson should always represent the village on the Sub District Council.
Section 1 1
Role of the Sub District Council
1 1.1 The Sub District Council shall decide on the allocation of development funds from all
sources made available to the sub-district or to the combined villages in the sub-district.
Development activities initiated at the village level, with the self-generated funds of the
village, do not require the approval of the Sub District Council.
11.2  The Sub District Council may receive, on behalf of the villages in the sub-district,
development funds or materials from all sources for distribution to villages in accordance
with Sub District Council decisions. The Sub District Council may carry out other
development programs or contracts.
11.3  The Sub District Council shall monitor construction and other development activities
carried out in the village. This monitoring shall be conducted by the village-level monitoring
team described in Section 9 of the present regulation. Poor workmanship reported by the
monitoring team shall be reported to the District Administrator.



11.4  The Sub District Council may assist with the coordination of development activities
within the sub-district and stimulate joint development activities among villages. The Sub
District Council may assist in the resolution of disputes between villages on development
matters.
11.5  The Sub District Council may convene public meetings at sub-district level to discuss
development needs, plans and activities.
11.6  The Sub District Council shall choose from among its members representatives, at
least one of whom shall be a woman, to attend meetings of the District Development Council.
Section 12
Sub District Council decisions
12.1  Sub District Councils take decisions either through consensus or, if no consensus can
be reached, by majority vote.
12.2  Decisions are only made in meetings where all villages are represented by at least one
member and where at least 60% of the members are present.
12.3  All meetings of the Sub District Council are open to the public, but only Sub District
Council members may vote.
12.4  Decisions of the Sub District Council shall be recorded in writing. Decisions shall be
communicated immediately to traditional and local leaders in the village and to the District
Administrator. Decisions shall be disseminated in public.
Section 13
Financial control
The Sub District Council shall appoint three to five respected sub-district community
members to act as financial supervisors. These supervisors shall draw up an annual report of
all the financial dealings of the sub-district Council. This financial report constitutes a public
document and shall be submitted annually to the Sub District Council, to the District
Administrator, and shall be read aloud at sub district and village meetings.
Section 14
Cooperation in District Development
Each Sub District Council shall select two representatives to:
(a)    assist the District Administration by identifying and advising local
development priorities based on the views of Village and Sub District
Councils;
(b)    assist the District Administration in the planning, implementation and
monitoring of local development projects utilizing external funds;



(c)    assist national agencies as required by providing linkages to and feedback from
village development programs;
(d)    assist in channelling development funds from all sources for distribution to
Sub Districts in accordance with Sub District Council priorities;
(e)    assist the District Administrator in the coordination of development activities
within the District and, where appropriate, promote joint development
activities among Sub Districts;
(f)    convene public meetings to discuss district development needs, plans and
activities; and
(g)    carry out development programs and contracts.
Section 15
Definitions
Wherever used in the present regulation, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(a)    "traditional and local leaders" include among others hamlet head (chefe de
aldeia), village head (chefe do suco), sub-district head (chefe do posto), and
traditiona chief (liuruas).
(b)    "village officer" means a village head, hamlet head or member of the of elders
(Conselho dos Katuas) at the village level.
(c)    "sub-district officer" means a sub-district head or member of the of elders
(Conselho dos Katuas) at the sub-district level.
(d)    "village development council" reads in Portuguese "conselho do suco."
(e)    "sub-district development council" reads in Portuguese "conselho do posto."
Section 16
Repeal of Existing Laws and Regulations
All existing laws contrary to the provisions of the present regulation are hereby
repealed or suspended to the extent necessary to give effect to the present regulation.
Section 17
Entry into Force
The present regulation shall enter into force on [ insert date].



Council Make-up of Phase 1 Elections
Number of    Total Members in   Number of hamlets per     Number of Members on the
Villages per  the Sub District  village x number of       Village Council
Sub District   Council          representatives per hamlet
2            2x8=16             2x6                       12
3            3x8=24             3x6                       18
4            4x8=32             4x6                       24
5            5x8=40             5x6                       30
6            6x6=36             6x6                       36
7            7x6=42             7x6                      42
8            8x6=48             8x6                      48
9            9x6=54             9x4                       36
10           10x6=60            lOx4                     40
11           11x4=44            11x4                     44
12           12x4=48            12x4                     48
13           13x4=52            4                        52
14           14x4=56            4                        56
15           15x4=60            4                        60
16           16x2=32            2                        32
17           17x2=34            2                        34
18           36                 2                        36
19           38                 2                        38
20           40                 2                         40
21
22
23
24
25           25x2=50
26
27
28



ANNEX 12: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
1. Project Background
The key issue for all work in East Timor is poverty. East Timor was already the poorest part of
Indonesia prior to Independence. Against a national poverty average of 11-13%, at least 30% of East Timor's
population fell below the nationally defined poverty line. Timor fell behind Indonesia in most quality of poverty
indicators: infant mortality and morbidity, illiteracy, malnutrition, intestinal disease, malaria, maternal mortality,
and so on.
Timorese administrative capacity for resolving problems of poverty was and is low. Prior to
Independence, senior levels of the civil service were heavily non-Timorese: of the 13 district administrators in East
Timor, for example, only two were Timorese. Since the conflict, none of the non-Timorese civil servants have
returned. This has affected every level of government service provision: virtually all of the secondary school
teachers and most of the country's health workers departed the country in the period prior to the referendum that
led to independence.
National capacities to plan and implement a broad-based poverty strategy are limited. UNTAET is an
entirely new government organization and many of its most basic administrative systems are still being installed.
The National Coordinating Council, which includes Timorese representatives, is also an entirely new organization.
Civil service recruitment is just starting, while UNTAET administrative structures extend only to the district level.
For the local levels of social organization with which the proposed project is concerned, governance and
social issues reflect both the problems of the previous administrative system, compounded by the problems caused
by the violence that surrounded independence. The prior administrative system was a top-down, highly centralized
administrative system. As a result, political accountabilities were mostly upwards. Even village administrators in
the Indonesian system reflect loyalty to the district head rather than loyalty to a popular constituency.
Development programs by and large also reflected the availability of centralized budgets rather than a
response to locally perceived and expressed needs. Thus, despite a relatively large expenditure on Timorese
development, on-the-ground impacts were relatively slight, ownership was low, and the long-term sustainability of
most development programs has been minimal. Alternative program designs that emphasize community
ownership, high quality TA, and more local adaptation show significantly superior results in terms of effective use
of development funds and responsiveness to expressed needs.
No CAS has been prepared for East Timor as of yet. However, this project follows from the Community
Recovery sections of the World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) to East Timor in November, 1999. The
JAM found that (i) virtually the entire pre-independence governance structure has disappeared from every level;
(ii) all technical sectors have also disappeared; (iii) built structures have been destroyed everywhere, especially in
the cities of Dili, Manututo, Suai, Oekussi, and Los Palos and much of their hinterlands.
Approximately 80 % of East Timor's population live in rural sub-districts. The proposed project's scope
covers all of them. As a project with institutional objectives, the Community Empowerment and Local Governance
Project will provide a new framework for addressing issues of poverty targeting in East Timor, one that
complements formal targeting systems with a more participatory, bottom-up approach to identifying and
supporting vulnerable groups.
Prior to the conflict, about 30% of East Timor's population fell below the poverty line threshold. Poverty
calculations made after the conflict have little meaning given the devastating scale of physical destruction and the
loss of household assets of all kinds. Close to 100% of the beneficiary population from the proposed project will
consist of the poor. Even within that program, the special program component for widows will reach some of the
poorest of the poor - in a context where everyone is poor.



2. Summary Project Description
2.1 Project Scope and Objectives
The Community Empowerment and Local Govemance Project has dual objectives of poverty reduction and
institution building, in the aftermath of the devastation after the 1999 ballot. The project aims to (i) build and
reconstruct basic economic infrastructure such as farm-to-market roads, small bridges, irrigation systems, drainage,
clean water, etc; (ii) support productive economic activities until anticipated micro-credit and banking systems are
introduced; and (iii) support social and cultural activities conducive to community reconciliation and recovery. In
parallel, the project will strengthen local institutions by building capacity in sub districts and villages. A systematic
approach towards strengthening local level social capital and governance will reduce poverty and support inclusive
patterns of sustainable growth.
2.2 Major Components
2.2.1 Community Grants
A main development objective of the Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project is to let
villagers make their own choices about the kinds of projects that they need and want, and the main purpose of the
grants is to support the development proposals they produce. The financial core of the Community Empowerment and
Local Governance Project lies in the block grants that will be given to each sub-district in East Timor several times
during the two year life of the project, and working towards an "open menu" principle. Project support through district
level technical facilitators and sub-district and village facilitators will provide village men and women with the
information, opportunity, and freedom of choice that they need to make informed, responsible, proposals and
decisions.
2.2.2 Cultural Heritage
The cultural program supported through the CEP will encompass two core activities. First, a small grants
program managed by a Timorese Board drawn from civil society will provide support for community-based cultural
development programs. These grants are each less than $1,000 and can be disbursed only against an eligibility list that
has been approved by the Bank. Preliminary menu items include musical instruments, costumes, weaving supplies,
performances, and simple school sports equipment,. The list will be finalized through village-level consultations
during the first year of CEP implementation to allow the first grants to be disbursed by the eighth or ninth month.
The second activity is the development of a national performance center and museum. The center will include
a small vocational school, rotating displays, and a series of gallery and performance spaces where international and
Timorese artists and artisans can perform. The focus of the performance center will be on living arts and outreach to
the different Timorese communities. A historically valuable but burned out building where the former national
museum was housed has been assigned for this purpose, and preliminary reconstruction designed to prevent further
damage has begun. Design consultants for the reconstruction work will be selected through standard international
procurement.
2.2.3. Civil Society Development
Finally, the project includes an innovations fund to support the development of regional and local Timorese
civil society groups (i.e. NGOs, student, and church) working on recovery. This fund would not begin operations until
late in the project's first year since regional communications are still too disrupted to complete proper consultations.
Bank review of the fund would include assessment of a governance structure, rule book, proposal formats, and
methodology for ex ante and expost review. Eligible subproject categories are advocacy, reproductive health,
communications, dispute resolution, and environmental protection. Eligible expenditures include a maximum overhead
of 35%. Approvals for pilot proposals would come from the national level steering group, which will be elected by the
Timorese NGO development community. The fund is not expected to be ready until the second year of project
implementation.



2.3    Overall Project Costs and Financing Plan
E:y   StEE Component    T:    Sector      Costs .......  of.
Community block grants                       18.5      72
Cultural heritage                             2         9
Civil Society Development Fund I  _1                    5
Total Project Costs                          21.5     100
Total Financing Required                     21.5     100
2.4    Risk Assessment
.'....RsR. isk:Rating    Risk MAinimizat on: eaure-
Flbm Outputs to Objective                 __
Revised local government structure has been    H        UNTAET: Draft regulation as a
fully accepted by CNRT and UNTAET                       condition of negotiations
CNRT: CNRT resolution, national
and regional socialization programs.
Community plans may be taken over by elites   M         High transparency and participation
throughout process
Acceptable quality infrastructure is produced    M      Strong technical support program
Financial transfers take place without delay  M         UNTAET to pass all necessary
administrative orders prior to grant
effectiveness
C#mmunities can maintain products         M             O&M plan a pre-condition of
subproject approval
From Components to Outputs
Goods are delivered without delay         M             Use of procurement agent
Logistical arrangements are developed that  H           Freight forwarder/distribution
minimize delay                                          contracts, purchase of project-
owned district level trucks
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
2.5 Project Principles
2.5.1 Democratic decision-making
All decisions made regarding development at local levels will be made by the communities or their
'democratically elected representatives.
.5.2 Transparency and Accountability
Transparency helps to ensure accountability. Elected representatives are accountable to the communities
that elected them. All documents related to decisions made will be available to the public. Notice-boards, posters,
public meetings, informal networks or other media will be used to ensure that everyone is aware of the key
decisions. Channels and processes will be developed to deal with complaints. The Posto Facilitator is accountable
to the communities in the sub-district that he/she serves; the Technical Facilitators and Trainer/Coordinators are
responsible to the districts with whom they work and to the sub-PMU (CAA) at the national level.
2.5.3 Gender equality
The East Timorese, through CNRT, have adopted a policy of gender equality. The CEP will help to
support the implementation of this policy through the election of decision-making councils with equal numbers of
men and women. Specific vulnerabilities in the project design and implementation strategies have been identified



2.5.3 Gender equality
The East Timorese, through CNRT, have adopted a policy of gender equality. The CEP will help to support
the implementation of this policy through the election of decision-making councils with equal numbers of men and
women. Specific vulnerabilities in the project design and implementation strategies have been identified and actions
recommended to help increase gender inclusion in CEP, and specific training plans have been initiated which include
gender awareness training. (See PAD Annex 16.)
2.5.4 Community participation and contribution
Community participation in the project is required at several levels. The doors will be opened for all members
of the community regardless of age, sex, religion, or ethnic group to participate fully in electing their representatives
and participating in community meetings to determine priorities. The communities elected representatives will be
charged with decision-making and management responsibility. Communities will also be encouraged to make
voluntary contributions this could be in the form of cash, materials, or labor, and will be required to prepare a
maintenance plan to ensure the sustainability of any activity funded under the project
3. Institutional Framework, Technical Assistance, and Service Contracts
3.1 ADB and World Bank
The World Bank manages the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), and will provide management oversight of
the CEP grant implementation, ADB has contributed funding for the project preparation, and will jointly supervise the
project. World Bank procurement rules will apply to all procurement undertaken through the project.
3.2 Relationships with UNTAET and CNRT
The Timorese have yet to establish government offices or structures operating in East Timor. The United
Nations have formed a transitional administration - UNTAET - whose mandate is to establish a system of
administration and hand it over to the East Timorese.
3.2.1 UNTAET responsibilities
The grant is to East Timor; UNTAET will be the overall executor of the grant through their relevant offices.
UJNTAET will transfer executing responsibility for the different components to other agencies: to TA consultants for
the community grants, UNESCO for the museum, a national steering committee for the civil society grants. Other
contracts will be directly with UNTAET or through partners identified by them. UNTAET will provide financial
officers at national and district level as part of their staff or through separate contracts.
3.2.2 Links with UNTAET administration
Under UNTAET administration, District Administrators have been placed in each district. Money will be
transferred to the district using the process established by the peacekeeping forces for transferring payrolls. At the
district level, project accountants will be located at the office of the District Administrator with responsibility for
overseeing and reporting on the financial status of the project. They will also assist the District Administrators with
overall accounting of the office's budget.
3.2.3 CNRT Role
CNRT have been fully involved in the development of the project since it's inception and will provide
continuous input and advice on the project throughout. The intention will be to have the project entirely implemented
by Timorese by the end of the third year. The aim is to assist as far as possible in establishing the foundations for
sustainable bottom up development planning and implementation. Socialization of the project will be carried out
jointly by CNRT and project consultants. The structures created under the project will be expected to coordinate
closely with the local CNRT structures.



3.3   Institutional coordination
Overall coordination for the CEP is through the transitional National Coordination Committee, known as the
NCC. At the district level, UNTAET will issue flexible guidance to District Administrators to assist them in forming
district-level support committees, which might include the district technical facilitator, Conselho do posto
representatives to the district, CNRT, the Church and other civil society representatives. At the sub-district level, a
Posto Facilitator and a UN volunteer reporting to UNTAET will join the Conselho do Posto in coordinating and
communicating at the sub-district level. Finally, at the village level, coordination will be through the elected village
council. The sub-district and village councils will have equal numbers of men and women.
3.4 Village, sub-district councils, and other organization structures
Democratically elected councils will be established at sub-district and village levels. One man and one women
will be elected from each aldeia to the village council. One man and one woman will be elected from each village
council to the sub-district council. The roles and responsibilities of the council are detailed in the regulation.
The elders of the village, and heads of village organizations, are in the process of being established as the
Conselho dos Catuas. The Conselho dos Catuas will play an advisory and monitoring role. They will also assist in
conflict resolution and arbitration. The Chefe do Suco and three administrative staff have been elected by the villagers.
They will not be allowed to stand for election to the Conselho do Suco.
3.5 Project Management Unit
The project management unit will take on the day to day management of the project on behalf of UNTAET.
The unit will be comprised of a project chief financial officer (PCFO) contracted directly by UNTAET, a Timorese
deputy PCFO, and relevant support staff. District project accountants placed in each district are part of the PMU but
will be located in the offices of the district administrators. A financial management action plan for the project, and
terms of reference for the District Project Accountants (DPAs) can be found in Annex 1.
Project Management Sub-Units - or "sub-PMUs" - will handle each of the three project components. Project
management for Component One, Community Grants, will be provided by two teams, the service delivery team and
the technical assistance team, who will be responsible for providing all of the necessary support to implement the
community grants program. This support would be provided under two contracts; the first would be comprised of the
facilitator teams, training teams, the administrative support for the teams, and specialized technical assistance for
project management, training of trainers, communications strategies and socio-economic surveys. A second team will
provide the technical support through a team of technical facilitators at district or regional level. Although the
contracts will be issued separately, the two teams will work together and be coordinated by the team leader. TORs for
these functions can be found in Annex 2.
Additional staff required under the special Component One community grants window for widows and
vulnerable groups will be identified and contracted separately but will be integrated into the structure of the team.
Project management of Component Two, Cultural Heritage, will be handled by: 1) UNESCO, for the physical
reconstruction of the national heritage and performance center, and through 2) a newly-created non-profit East Timor
cultural heritage trust, for the cultural grants program. UNESCO has prepared draft MOUs for UNTAET and the IDA
and has seconded experts for the initial phase of physical reconstruction and assessment of renovation options.
Eminent members of the Timorese community are currently forming the non-profit trust and identifying potential
Advisory Board members, and will undertake the development of a manual for trust operations and grant-giving as
soon as possible in preparation for managing the cultural grants under Component Two.
Project management of Component Three, Civil Society Support Fund, will be through a national level
steering group elected by the Timorese NGO development community; the steering group will work to set up a
governance structure, rule book, proposal formats, and methodology for ex ante and ex post review, all of which would



be subject to PMU and Bank approvals. The fund is not expected to be ready until the second year of project
implementation.
3.6 Service Delivery and Technical Assistance Teams
The service delivery and technical assistance teams will be responsible for providing all of the necessary
support to implement the community grants program. This support would be provided under two contracts: the service
delivery team, comprised of the facilitator teams, training teams, the administrative support for the teams, and
specialized technical assistance for project management, training of trainers, communications strategies and
socioeconomic surveys; and the technical assistance team, contracted to provide the technical support through a team
of technical facilitators at district level. Although the contracts will be separate, the two teams will work together and
be coordinated by the team leader.
Additional staff required under the widows and vulnerable groups component will be identified and contracted
separately but will be integrated into the structure of the team.
3.7 Cultural Heritage
3.7.1 National Heritage and Performance Center
Responsibility for executing the reconstruction activities under the cultural heritage component will be
transferred to UNESCO on behalf of UNTAET. UNESCO will enter into contract with appropriate architects and
contractors to undertake the work.
3.7.2 Small Grants for Cultural Projects and Social Reconciliation Activities
A newly-established non-profit Cultural Trust for East Timor will act as a sub-PMU for this activity, and will
review proposals and distribute grants for up to $1,000 dollars each. The mechanics of the committee, proposal
requirements and criteria, will be defined during the first six months of the project.
3.8 Civil Society Support Fund
Eligible subproject categories include advocacy, reproductive health, communications, dispute resolution, and
environmental protection. Eligible expenditures include a maximum overhead of 35%. Approvals for pilot fund
proposals would come from the national level steering group, which will be elected by the Timorese NGO
development community. The fund is not expected to be ready until the second year of project implementation.
3.9 Monitoring and Evaluation
A sum has been included in the grant to cover the cost of monitoring and evaluation that will be carried out by
UNTAET. The activities to be implemented will include surveys of statistically significant samples, stakeholder
workshops, and coverage of the project by journalists. UNTAET through the PMU will administer the small contracts
to undertake the work.
3.10 Hand-over preparations
The goal of the Community Empowerment and Local Governance project is to help Timorese communities
develop the organizational capacities to make bottom-up decisions about development planning and management.
Over time, the institutional and planning structures developed through the project are expected to become sustainable
through their incorporation into the regular budget and administrative structures of post-transition Timor Loro Sae.
Within the overall Project Management Unit, situated in UNTAET, the project's financial management action
plan include a proposal to train 13 Timorese financial officers. Gaining financial management experience across a



range of projects is a key step in readying district administrations for subsequent handover. By the end of the project,
all thirteen districts should have a fully functioning Timorese-run financial management system.
The terms of reference for service delivery under Component One include the training and development of two
Timorese understudies for each international position. The initial, six-month contract (financed by the ADB) requires
that a joint review be carried out during the project's mandatory annual programming review, which will determine
how many of the international functions can be turned over to their Timorese counterparts and on what date.
The other components of the project will be "handed over" from its very beginning. All of the cultural heritage
grants will be managed through an independent governance board chaired by a Timorese. Similarly, the work to
support the gender program, which includes the special program for widows and other vulnerable groups, support to
women councillors, and the social reconciliation program for victims of violence, will be run entirely by Timorese
from the outset. Finally, the project includes a component to support local Timorese NGOs (i.e. in towns and districts
outside of Dili). National Timorese NGOs must form a governing board and develop the rulebook for these small
grants before these funds can be used.
Finally, it should be noted that the overall financial structure of the project reflects assumptions about the
amount of public funding that will be available to support the program after independence. Most costs are
"frontloaded" - that is, the startup costs are billed to the international trust fund. The recurrent costs that will be picked
up by the future Timorese government are much less, and should not exceed $7 million annually to cover the entire
country with community grants on a sustainable basis.
3.11 Accountabilities
3.11.1 Conselho Members
Conselho members at the Suco and Posto levels are responsible for representing the people that elected them,
and are also accountable back to these people. Elections will be carried out during the first year, and then every three
years. Representatives can serve up to three terms. Accountability is ensured through transparency - the representative
has to make available information to the communities he or she serves. On behalf of the community the facilitator
should assist, and periodically monitor that it is being done properly, reporting his/her findings back to the
community. If the community is unhappy with the performance of the representatives they can: i) choose not to reelect
the representatives, ii) report the problem to the Chefe at that level (aldeia, suco, or posto), iii) report the problem
through the project staff, iv) in case of criminal problems, the community may report to official authorities such as
UNTAET's CIVPOL.
3.11.2 Conselho do Suco
The conselho do Suco is collectively responsible for the correct use of the funds that it receives. In this respect
it is accountable both to UNTAET project management, and to the people in the region it serves. In accounting to
UJNTAET the council will report through a series of standard reporting forms. In accounting to the people it serves the
council is responsible for making available the information about the project to the people. The DPA, facilitators, and
the conselho do posto are responsible for supervising that the council meets it's responsibilities to the project. Within
the conselho the representatives are responsible for monitoring the activities of the chairperson and vice chairperson,
and the representatives of the conselho do posto. If the majority of the members finds that any of these people is not
fulfilling their responsibilities, they can call for a re-election.
3.11.3 Facilitators
The facilitators are accountable both to the communities that they serve as well as to the project. The
conselhos will be asked to provide feedback on the performance of their facilitator through regular six monthly
evaluations.



4. Project Implementation Activities
4.1 COMMUNITY GRANTS COMPONENT
4.1.1 Socialization
The first socialization is carried out at a district level in all 13 districts. Three teams, each comprised of facilitators and
representatives of CNRT, will travel to each district and hold a workshop for community representatives from the sub-
district and district level. The circular used to give details of the project is presented in Annex 3.
A second socialization will take place a week or so later at the posto level. The facilitators will send invitations to the
Chefe do Suco and other representatives of each village in the posto inviting them to a meeting. The meeting will take
place in an appropriate building or place at the posto town. At the meeting the facilitators will collect basic
information about the villages in the posto and will distribute information about the conselhos and the project. If tape
recorders/players have been procured for the facilitators at this stage, an audio tape of CNRT national leadership
explaining and supporting the project will be played.
4.1.2 Council Selections
The facilitators will work in pairs at the village level, although within the village they will need to work separately to
reach each of the aldeias. The selections will take place according to the UNTAET regulation on councils; and in
accordance with this regulation the facilitators will undertake the following:
* Meeting with Chefe de Suco and village officials
On arrival in the posto, the facilitators will plan their schedule and inform the villages of their initial visit. During this
visit they will meet with the Chefe de Suco, Chefe de Aldeia, and other village officials and will explain about the
project, the role of the conselhos, the regulation, the election process, and the selection of election committees. At this
meeting the village decides on the date of the elections.
* Forming the Election Committee
The election committees in each aldeia will be comprised of the Chefe de Aldeia and two trusted members of the
Aldeia, one man and one woman. The posto facilitators will hold an election workshop at the suco level for all aldeia
election committees. Together they will decide on the strategy to disseminate information from the range of options
available, and will discuss the preparations for the elections, including the registration of voters, and nomination of
candidates. They may decide to hold the election in one of the aldeia first so that the other election committees can
observe and review the process and ask questions.
* Information Dissemination
A key challenge will be ensuring that all people in each of the aldeias understand the purpose of the elections.
Information will be disseminated to all of the people: men and women, rich and poor, in an appropriate manner. The
communications strategy specialist will identify various options including written materials, posters, plays etc.
Sufficient printed materials and logistical support should be provided to do this. Aldeia communities are notified two
weeks before the election and again, two days before.
* Voter registration
All eligible voters in the aldeia will be registered by the election committee in a book to be kept in the aldeia.
*  Elections
According to the regulation, the aldeia members can either vote through hand raising at a meeting or through a ballot.
Voting is optional but at least 50% of the eligible voters must attend for the election to be valid. All eligible voters vote
twice, once for the male representative and once for the female representative.



* Publicizing and registering the result
Counting of votes and the announcement of the results will take place immediately after the elections. Results are
recorded in writing and a copy given to the Chefe do suco and the Posto Facilitator. In addition, the results will be
communicated to every person in the aldeia orally and in writing.
* First Meeting and Training village councils
The first meeting of the village councils will take place about a week after the aldeia elections. The first half of the
meeting will be a training for the village councils. The second half of the meeting will be open for the community to
attend if they want to although only the council members will participate in the discussions. During this meeting the
council will:
1. Elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson
2. Elect the representatives (one man and one woman) to the conselho do posto (one of whom will be the
chairperson
3. Select three men and three women that meet the criteria as potential village facilitators
4. Initiate discussions on village priorities
4.1.3 First Cycle
* Posto Meeting.
As soon as all of the first conselho meetings have taken place the first posto meeting will be held. At this meeting the
members of the conselho do posto will:
1. Elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson (secretary and treasurer??)
2. Decide how the first cycle grant will be divided between the villages taking into account: extent of the
damage, population, relative poverty levels, other factors.
The posto facilitator will explain the process of the first cycle and discuss the forms, the procurement process, role of
the village facilitators, eligible activities etc. There are three forms in the first cycle:
1. Initial village request form: filled in by the chairperson of the conselho do suco with the activity, and estimates
of amount of materials, equipment and labor and estimated costs
2. Materials, equipment and labor costforms: filled in by the procurement officer in Dili who will get three quotes
for all of the items on the list, including costs for transport to the village, and estimated length of time for
delivery
3. Final village request form: filled in by the village indicating the final quantities of materials, equipment and
labor in their proposal, and which one of the three quotes obtained by the procurement officer they will accept,
or whether they choose to buy the materials themselves locally.
The minutes of the posto meeting will be written up and posted in each village, and disseminated orally through the
villages and aldeias.
* Training and Role of Village Facilitators
Immediately after the meeting of the conselho do posto, the posto facilitator will train the village facilitators.
* Second Village Council Meeting
At the second council meeting the village facilitators report on the priorities raised during their consultation process.
The meeting is open although the discussions should be limited to the council representatives. At this meeting the
council should decide on their priority activities and should set up a small working group including the village
facilitators who will prepare the procurement list for the identified activity based on their estimates of the costs. Posto
facilitator would help the village facilitators.



* Procurement
The posto facilitator will collect each of the initial procurement estimates from the villages and will take them to the
Procurement officer in Dili. The procurement officer will get three quotes for materials including transport to the
villages and provide the information on the prices of the quotes back to the village in materials, equipment and labor
cost form. Once the villages receive the cost estimates they can decide which one they will accept, or else to reject all
the estimates and procure their own materials and equipment. Labor costs will be quoted based on the standard going
rates for different categories of labor in Dili. The villages are free to set their own labor costs either above or below
these.
* Financial flow of funds
The flow of funds will be the same for all grant cycles in the project and are detailed in Annex 5.
* Accountability Downwards
In all stages of the project, accountability downwards will be given the same priority as accountability upwards. The
villagers should have access to the proposed costs, and what the quotation costs are. Information on the activity
proposed by the village, the allocations within the posto, the itemized costs (including labor costs), and on the
allocation of benefits within the village, must be actively disseminated through whatever means are most appropriate
to ensure that everyone in the village is informed.
4.2 WIDOWS AND VULNERABLE GROUPS
The Community Grants component of the CEP includes a second, additional financial window with grant
funds that are earmarked for highly vulnerable groups within each community, as identified through on-site
participatory rural appraisals managed by the facilitator together with the communities. Many of these groups will be
widows, elderly, and the disabled. Local-level workshops organized by the facilitators and sub-district councils would
make proposals for how this money might best help their most highly vulnerable members. Technical training and
backup for the facilitators will include referral linkages to health programs and specialized NGOs for the more
complex cases of trauma and psychosocial problems.
Grants under this window would cover the same eligibility categories as those for the main grant (productive
infrastructure, economic goods), with the addition of allowing scholarships as an allowable expenditure. On a case-by-
case basis, proposals for funds from this special community grant window will be considered for activities to be
conducted in Dili town (unlike the main community grants program, which does not operate in Dili's urban areas). In
fact, in is anticipated that a large demand for grants in this category will come from widows currently living in Dili but
displaced from their village home and needing support to return to that village and rebuild their physical, emotional,
and economic lives.
The process for soliciting, reviewing, and funding grant proposals under this window will be developed by
Timorese project preparation consultants with extensive consultation with widows' groups, church and community
groups, and potential beneficiaries themselves.
5. Financial Management Plan and District Project Accountants (DPAs)
5.1 KEY FINANCIAL STAFF
UNTAET will recruit or designate a senior Project Chief Financial Officer (PCFO) of the Project with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. Under the overall supervision of the Project Administrator,
the PCFO will have the overall responsibilities for all financial management functions of the Project



including, management of the Special Account, periodic replenishments from IDA, Washington,
establishment of an appropriate accounting and internal control procedures for authorizing payments and
recording of all project expenditures, periodic (consolidated) reporting of project expenditures, managing the
flow of information necessary for preparation of periodic financial reports and organizing internal audits and
annual external audits, all in conformity with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement between UNTAET and IDA
for the Project.
Recruitment of Project PCFO will be a condition of effectiveness of the Grant
Within two months after effectiveness, UJNTAET will recruit an East Timorese Deputy PCFO, to work
closely with the PCFO with the objective of eventually taking over the functions of the PCFO.
UNTAET will recruit at least thirteen E. Timorese nationals as District Project Accountants (DPAs) to
handle all financial and accounting functions related to the Project within each of the 13 Districts. The 13
DPAs will be financed under the Project. The main functions of the DPAs will include:
(i) Receiving project funds from the Special Account, UNTAET, Dili. Initially, the
custody of the funds will be retained by the Finance Section of UNTAET at the
District level.
(ii) Ensuring that the project funds are utilized in accordance with the budgets for
approved subprojects;
(iii) Recording all project expenditures;
(iv) Requesting replenishments of project funds as required and in accordance with
agreed procedures;
(v) Preparing quarterly reports of project expenditures to be submitted to the
PCFO in Dili, for consolidation with all other project expenditures.
A more detailed TOR proposed for DPAs has been provided to UNTAET.
Recruitment of 13 Timorese DPAs will be a condition of effectiveness of the Grant
5.2 TRAINING AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
In close consultations with IDA, UNTAET will design and implement a suitable training program for all the
DPAs soonest after their recruitment. It is expected that the DPAs will have the basic, minimum accounting
knowledge and some experience; the training program will thus aim to make the DPAs fully functional
accounting and reporting functions required under the Project. Training costs will be financed under the
project.
Soonest after the recruitment of the PCFO and the 13 initial DPAs, UJNTAET and IDA will discuss the
possibilities of recruiting an external firm of accountants (to be financed under the project), to assist in the
training and/or establishment of accounting systems and procedures.
5.3 PERIODIC REPORTING AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES
Soonest after the recruitment PCFO, UNTAET and IDA will agree on the format and contents of quarterly
financial statements to be submitted to IDA, within 45 days after the end of each quarter. IDA project team
has provided UNTAET first "models" for Project Sources and Uses of Funds (Report lA) and Uses of Funds



by Project Activity (Report IB). Agreement on the formats for financial reporting is expected latest, within
three months of project effectiveness.
On the basis of the formats and contents of the quarterly financial statements agreed with IDA, the PCFO
will have the overall responsibility to establish appropriate accounting systems to generate the necessary data
(including formats for reporting by the Districts, Sub-districts and Village levels) and to consolidate these
into the quarterly financial statements mentioned under (6) above. PCFO will also be responsible for
establishment of appropriate procedures for authorization for payments of project expenditures against
approved plans, internal controls and retention of accounting documents at various levels (at Dili, Districts,
Sub-District and Village levels). Between four and six months after effectiveness, IDA in close consultation
with UNTAET will review the system in place and suggest any modifications that appear necessary.
Note: IDA may provide guidance as may be necessary in this regard. It is however important that the PCFO
should have sufficient experience and qualifications to take the lead in the design of the most appropriate
accounting system to generate the required data. As the volume of project transactions increase, the PCFO
should also be able to assess and decide whether it would be appropriate to install suitable accounting
software for recording and reporting project expenditure.
5.4 INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITS
UJNTAET intends to undertake internal audits of project transactions at the Sub-District and Village levels.
The main objectives of these audits will be to ensure that the project expenditures are incurred in accordance
with the approved sub-projects, any modifications or cost-overruns are properly approved and authorized,
project expenditures are evidenced by assess acquired and generally that the project funds have been used for
the purposes intended. The results of such audits will constitute an important input in the annual external
audits of project expenditure.
Through regular consultations, UINTAET will confirm to IDA, the program and frequency for such internal
audits for the duration of the project.
In line with Article IV of the Grant Agreement, UNTAET will recruit a firm of external, professional
auditors acceptable to IDA, to audit financial statements of the Project for each fiscal year, ending June 30.
The first audit will cover the period from project effectiveness to June 30, 2001. The auditors for the first
audit will be recruited (in accordance with IDA's procedures for recruitment of consultants), by December
31, 2000 under Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA. IDA will provide the necessary assistance this regard
(drafting appropriate TORs for project audits, Request for Proposals from potential audit firms and audit
contract).
5.5 DRAFT TOR FOR DISTRICT PROJECT ACCOUNTANTS (DPAS)
Background - Flow of Project Funds:
Project expenditures tor programs and sub-projects approved at District, sub-District and Village levels will
be paid out of a Project Advance Account which will be established in each District. The Account will be
established with an initial advance of funds (from the Project Special Account in Dili), and then operate on
an "inprest" basis. As the funds are drawn down, the Account will be replenished to the extent of actual
expenditures incurred. Thus at any one time, the total amount of funds available in the Advance Account
plus any expenditures not yet reimbursed would equal to the initial (fixed) amount at which the Advance
Account was established.



Functions and Responsibilities of the DPA:
Under direct supervision ot the PUFO, the DPA will have the overall responsibility for the management of
flow of funds to the project operations within the District. Specific functions will include:
1. Ensuring that all payments out of the Advance account is properly authorized for sub-projects approved in
accordance with the established procedures.
2. Ensuring that all payments for project expenditures are made on authenticated invoices, receipts and other
documentation as set forth in the procedures and/or as directed by the PCFO, Dili.
3. Preparing timely requests for replenishment of funds from PCFO, Dili.
4. Recording all receipts and payments out of the Advance Account in appropriate accounting records as
established by the PCFO.
5. Filing of all receipts and accounting documentation for transactions of the Advance Account.
6. Preparing periodic (monthly, quarterly and annual) summaries of project expenditures and financial
reports in accordance with procedures (to be) established by the PCFO.
7. Preparing for and providing all the information required by the internal and external auditors of the
Project.
8. Undertaking all other actions as necessary to ensure a timely and systematic flow of funds for project
operations, as directed by the PCFO



ANNEX 13: COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN PROCUREMENT
SAMPLE FORMS AND DOCUMENTATION
DOCUMENTATION FOR SMALL CIVIL WORKS / SUPPLIES
SAMPLE CEP SUBPROJECT PROPOSAL
ADDITIONAL GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR SMALL WORKS
SAMPLE CEP SUB-PROJECT AGREEMENT
SAMPE QUOTATION



Documentation for Small Civil Works/Supplies
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Invitation to Bid and Instructions to Bidders
General Conditions of Contract
Sample Form of Contract/Work Order
Sample Form of Quotation
General Specifications
developed per nature of works in Works Project Manual
1. Invitation to Bid
1.1  Works:
1.2  Distrito/Posto/Suco
Grant Authorization
Date                No.
1.3 Appointment Procedure
Activity        Location        Date Hour             Remark
1.3.1    Collect Bid Document  Suco                            Free of charge
1.3.2    Explain Documents    idem                             Site Visit
1.3.3    Submit Bid           idem
1.3.4    Evaluate/Negotiate    idem                            On site
1.3.5    Appoint contractor    idem
1.3.6    Sign Contract         idem                            On-site
2.  Instructions to Bidders
The contractor will be selected after review of three quotations from different sources for local shopping and one
quotation for direct contracting; contract values cannot exceed $2,500 for direct contracting and US$7,500 for local
shopping.
> Sample Contract Form attached.
> Sample Quotation Form attached.
> Attachment to the Quotation Form: Schedule of Activities and Prices
> Contract Period should be 3-6 months from the date of signing of Contract.
> Type of Contract: Unit Price or Lump Sum, without escalation.
>  Payment for Achievement (output): Semi-Monthly: After certification for works completed in 2 week period; the
last payment, after issuing a Certificate of Hand-over.
3. General Conditions of Contract
3.1. Duties of the Conselho de Suco Head (contract owner) and Posto Facilitator (acting for District Administrator)



a) Supervise limplementation of works.
b) Arrange payment documents for work performed.
c) Accept completed works.
3.2. Duties of the Supplier
a)    Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and technical guidelines in the Project
Manual provided by the Posto Facilitator.
b)    Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor as per
the Manual, in accordance with the agreement and Technical Guidelines.
3.3. The works shall not be contracted without approval from the Posto Facilitator and Technical Facilitator.
3.4. The Supplier must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5. Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the Conselho do Suco or Conselho do Suco which obstructs
or damages the work. Such an event must be reported to the Posto Facilitator within 7 days, The Posto
Facilitator may agree to costs resulting therefrom, and prepare an agreement addendum if needed.
3.6. Differences of opinion that may occur between the Supplier and the Conselho de Suco should be brought for
discussion with the Posto Facilitator immediately. Settlement of such differences shall be decided by the
Engineer/management consultant and be based on factual evidence and the Agreement. If they entail costs
justified in the opinion of the Posto Facilitator due to changes of original specifications, then a contract
addendum has to be prepared.
3.7. Non-compliance by the Supplier: The Supplier shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2.
or 3.4. or does not obey the warnings of the Contract Owner or Facilitator. The Posto Facilitator or District
Technical Facilitator shall give written notice to the Supplier of any non-compliance.
3.8. Sanctions
a) In relation to negligence of the Supplier under clause 3.7., payments to the Supplier shall be postponed
until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the Posto Facilitator in accordance with the
Contract.
b) If within 7 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7., the Supplier takes no corrective action, the
Facilitator may terminate the contract and appoint a third party to carry it out.
3.9. Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the Conselho de Suco/ and Posto
Facilitator in accordance with the contract or addendum if any,
3.10. Reporting by the Supplier
a) Weekly progress of works, to include usage of supplied purchased by grant fund..
b) Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I - Agreement Form
Attachment 2 - Bid Form
CONSELHO DE SUCO:
Address:
Implementation Agreement No
Date:



SAMPLE CEP SUBPROJECT PROPOSAL
FOR ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES BY THE COMMUNITY
OR
FOR SMALL WORKS/SUPPLIES BY THE COMMUNITY
IN DISTRICT
POSTO
SUCO
Date:
Details on the following are summarized on following pages:
1. Subproject Description:
2. Implementation arrangements:
3. Procurement plan:
4. Land acquisition:
5. Environment impact:
6. Cost, by item and funding source:
note 1/
7. Schedule for implementation and funding:
8. Repayment schedule and amounts:
9. Benchmarks, cancellation triggers:
10. Group members:
11. Treasurer of group/bookkeeper:
12. Location of subproject and group address:
13. Small Public Works: Additional General Conditions of Agreement apply.
NOTES:
1/ Including
a: group technical assistant fees (to be agreed, if any); profit sharing terms would be
indicated, if any.
b: 2% Suco Forum administration fee
Confirmed by:



Posto Facilitator Conselho do Suco Leader (Head) Conselho do Suco (Deputy)
SAMPLE PROPOSAL GROUP FORM
East Timor
Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project (CEP)
Proposal No.
Proposal Proponent Group Members
Name                  Address           MIF          Signature
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.



ADDITIONAL GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR SMALL WORKS
1) Duties of the Group or Facilitator for works
a) Implement the works in accordance with the specifications approved by the oversight consultant.
b) Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost based on the
agreement.
2) The works shall not be contracted without approval from the Posto Facilitator.
3) Non-compliance
4) The group/Posto Facilitator shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with general clauses or does not obey
the warnings of the Facilitator/Consultant. The oversight consultant shall give written notice to the group/Posto
facilitator of any non-compliance and send copy to the management consultant and to the District Administrator.
If within 15 days of receiving a warning the group/Posto Facilitator leader takes no corrective action, then the
Facilitator may propose a Posto level meeting to review the matter.
5) Sanctions
In relation to negligence, payments to the group shall be postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and
accepted by the consultant in accordance with the Agreement.
6) Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the consultant in accordance with the
Agreement or Addendum if any.
7) Reporting by the group/Posto facilitator
a) Weekly personnel records
b) Weekly equipment records
c) Weekly progress of works
d) Monthly cumulative progress



SAMPLE CEP SUB-PROJECT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CO)NSELHO DE SUCO AND THE UNTAET DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
General Conditions of the Implementation Agreement ...........................................................
Sample Form of Agreement...................................................................
General Specifications.........................................................................
(developed per nature of works in Project Manual)
General Conditions of Implementation Agreement
1.   Duties of the Posto Facilitator (acting for the UNTAET District Administrator)
a)    Verify subproject proposal and assist with preparation.
b)    Supervise implementation of works.
c)    Arrange payment documentation for work performed.
d)    Accept completed works.
2.   Duties of the Conselho do Suco
a)     Implement the works in accordance with the Specifications and Technical Guidelines for Works in the Project
Manual provided by the Posto Facilitator, and with the Resettlement and Environmental Guidelines, as
necessary, that are attached to this Agreement.
b)     Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor as per the
Manual, in accordance with the agreement and Technical Guidelines.
c)     Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost based on the
agreement.
d)     Project Reporting: the Posto Facilitator will provide a 2 page progress report every month to the District
Technical Specialist, and allow other Government, IDA, ADB, and other representatives to access records and
visit the sites. A short completion report will be prepared.
3.     Duties of the Posto Facilitator and District Technical Facilitator (consultants)
a) The Consultants shall (i) assist with preparation of proposals; (ii) assist with review of proposals, (iii) disseminate
all project information; (iv) supervise project implementation; (v) certify payment documentation.
b) Disputes or differences of opinion that may occur between the group and their Posto Facilitator should be brought
immediately for discussion with the District Technical Facilitator, who should settle such differences based on
factual evidence and the Agreement. If the settlement entails costs justified in the opinion of the consultant due to
changes in the original specification, then an Agreement Addendum must be prepared.
c) Release of any advance requires prior compliance with any land acquisition and a satisfactory environmental
management plan if any is required for the subproject. All such plans are public information and a community
consultation will be sought and noted. Progress payments depend on implementation of the plans.
4.   The works shall not be contracted without approval from the Conselho do Suco and the Posto Facilitator.
5.   The Conselho do Suco and project consultants and Facilitators must obey existing rules and regulations, and
respect local customs.



6.   Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the Conselho do Suco which obstructs or damages the work.
Such an event must be reported to the Conselho do Suco members and Posto Facilitator within 7 days. The
Facilitator may agree to costs resulting therefrom, and prepare an agreement addendum if needed. In all such
cases, the final payment will be revised but cannot exceed the previously agreed total for the suco without
agreement from the Coselho do Suco.
7.   Differences of opinion that may occur between the Conselho do Suco and the Facilitator should be brought for
discussion with the Technical Facilitator immediately at the Conselho do Suco. Settlement of such differences
shall be decided by the Technical Facilitator and be based on factual evidence and the Agreement. If they entail
additional costs due to changes of original specifications, then an Agreement Addendum must be prepared and
agreed to by the Conselho do Posto.
8.   Non-compliance by the Conselho do Suco: The Conselho do Suco shall be judged negligent if it does not
comply with clauses 2. or 5. or does not obey the warnings of the Posto Facilitator. The Posto Facilitator shall
give written notice to the Conselho do Suco of any non-compliance and send copies to the conselho do Posto
and the District Technical Facilitator.
9.   Sanctions
a) In relation to negligence of the Conselho do Suco under clause 8, payments to the Conselho do Suco shall be
postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the Posto Facilitator in accordance with
the Agreement.
b) If within 15 days of receiving a warning under clause 8, the Conselho do Suco representative takes no
corrective action, then the Posto Facilitator may appoint a third party to carry out the works.
10. Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the Technicsl Facilitator in
accordance with the Agreement (or Addendum, if any).
11. Reporting by the Posto Facilitator
a)    Weekly personnel records, kept at the sub-district.
b)    Weekly equipment record. kept at the sub-district.
c)    Bi-weekly progress of works, submitted to the District Technical Facilitator..
d)    Monthly cumulative progress, submitted to the District Technical Facilitator and National PMU.
12. Audits: The Posto Facilitator and community groups will allow audits as decided by UNTAET. If audits
indicate that funds were misused, then the group must reimburse the amount or, failing this, withdraw from the
project. For the purpose of such audits, the Posto Facilitator and community groups will keep Statements of
Expenditures related to the project for 2 years after its completion.



SAMPLE FORM OF AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT
for
WORK/SUPPLIES
Conselho de Suco:                            _        (name)
Address:
Date:                                   .
Distrito
Posto
Suco
A. We, the undersigned:
1.    NAME:
TITLE              (POSTO FACILITATOR)
ADDRESS:
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the UNTAET Government, Office of District Administration
by assignment letter dated: No.:
2.   NAME:
TITLE:                                  (CONSELHO DE SUCO)
ADDRESS:
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PARTY.
B. Both parties agree:
a.  Type of Works: _
b.  Location:
c.  Description:_
d.  Cost and Financing:
Total Cost:                   $ US or rupiah
(write out amount in words)
Financing
Self-financing....
Cash...............
Kind



From grant............
I  tranche
2nd tranche
3rd tranche
e.     Execution period:
calendar days from the date of signing the agreement, without warranty period.
expected completion date
f.     Payment: Initial advance of    %. Payments proportional to physical progress as stated in bills
certified by the Facilitator and the final hand-over.
h. Condition for Execution: As stated in the attached General Conditions of Agreement
i. Grant financing to be available from District Administration account
Address:
Account Number
i.  Miscellaneous: ---- four (4) copies of this agreement must be signed,
SECOND PARTY               FIRST PARTY                       Acknowledged by Chefe de Posto
(Head of Conselho de Suco)   (Facilitator, for District Administrator)
Overleaf: Signature of all members of Conselho do Suco



SAMPLE FORM FOR QUOTATIONS
To: The Posto Facilitator of the Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
QUOTATION
1.   Having examined the Quotation Documents, comprising the Invitation to Bid, the Instruction to Bidders, the
General Conditions and Technical Guidelines in the Project Manual, related to the following works:
Description of
Works
I/we the undersigned offer to implement the whole of the said works in conformity with the aforesaid documents for
the sum of.-
Specify currency                                 (if rupiah, also specify current US $ equivalent)
Amount
(write out amount in words)
As detailed in the Attachment to the Quotation showing schedule of Activities and Prices
2.  I/We undertake to commence the works on the date of signing the Contract and to complete and hand-over the
works comprised in the contract within the period stated in the bid document.
3.   This Quotation is valid for one month from its date.
Date:
Supplier Name: Address:
Supplier Signature



Annex 14: Community Participation in Workforce Procurement and Payment
Community participation procedures and guidelines for selecting and paying labor will be as follows:
1. General understanding - All qualified people may participate in the project, irrespective of gender or age.
2. Kinds of Work - Workers for the project can come from outside the community if there are no qualified or available
laborers available. Skilled labor may participate and be paid according to their skills and experience. Unskilled labor
is also eligible to work o n the project for activities in which their skills are appropriate.
3. Obligations to the workforce:
The overall project coordination team within the village needs to make clear the following:
 Schedule and targets for works
* Labor needs
* Incentive and salary proposals
* Invitation for labor force participation
* Priority to use the poor
4.   How workers are selected
*  Must be on workforce
*  Registered by the project implementation team and the head of the Conselho do Suco, with priority for the
poor
* If more people register than are needed, then a schedule must be developed to share employment
opportunities among the candidates
* List of laborer selected through the public meeting must be posted on the public information boards
5.   Payments for work on physical infrastructure
* Wages are set by the Conselho do Suco, but they cannot be higher that the local agricultural minimum wage
* Wages are established and publicized as the Daily Payment Rate (DPR).
* One Daily Payment Rate is equivalent to 6 hours. Workers may work for more than 6 hours per day. Extra
hours are paid additional at the same rate. Thus, if people work for 9 hours, they are paid 1.5 DPR.
* Payment levels for skilled laborers can be higher than that for unskilled
* Payments can be through two systems, either as daily rates or as rates per piece of work accomplished.
6.   Organization of labor
* Workers are normally organized into groups. One group has approximately 20 workers
* Each group is headed by a group leader. The group leader may receive a small incentive
7.   Paying the labor force
* There must be a list of people who have reported their work
* Payment is based on the registration list, as per DPR
* Payments are normally done on a weekly basis
* Piece payments can be assessed as payments to the entire group, but the actual payments must be made
directly to each of their members
* Before incentive payments can be made for skilled labor or for group leaders, their actual amounts must have
been agreed and posted on the public signboard.
Formats for payment are provided in the project manual.



Annex 15: Resettlement Guidelines
Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
Guidelines for Resettlement, and Land and Asset Acquisition
Objectives
1.    Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be physically displaced under
subprojects financed under the Project. Subproject proposals that would require demolishing houses or
acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to reduce their impacts through alternative
alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed
carefully.
2.    Land or other assets may be acquired through:
(a) Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, villagers may elect to voluntarily
contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their land without compensation;
(b) Contributions against compensation. A contributor considered "affected" will be eligible for compensation
from the village.
3. These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons under 2(b) above, to
ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be assisted to
improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to pre-project
levels. However, if acquired assets are less than 20%, the Posto Facilitator may dispense with the procedural
requirements delineated in paragraph 5 below.
Compensation Principles
4.   The Conselho de Suco shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation are provided to affected
persons (the village grant cannot be used to pay compensation) in a timely fashion:
a) replacement land with an equally productive plot or other equivalent productive assets;
b) materials and assistance to replace fully solid structures that will be demolished;
c) replacement of damaged or lost crops, at market value;
d) other acceptable in-kind compensation.
Consultation Process
5.   The Conselho de Suco will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in a proposed subproject
area are consulted. There will be a village meeting to inform villagers about their rights to compensation and the options
that are available to them in accordance with these Guidelines. The Minutes of the village meeting shall reflect the
discussions held, agreements reached, and include the following:
a) for any voluntary contributions, name of contributor and details about the contribution;
b) for land/asset acquisition against compensation, names of affected persons and details about the nature and
level of compensation.



Summary Agreement                     Amount Compensation        Agreement reached
(i)  agric. land (m2)
(ii)  plots -- area affected (m2)
or houses/structures
to be demolished (units/m2)
(iii)  trees or crops affected
(iv)  signatures of villagers,
chefe de suco
(v)  record of any complaints
raised by affected persons
(vi)  map attached
showing affected areas and
replacement areas
6 .  The Posto and Suco facilitators shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confirm in discussions
with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements reached, and any eventual complaint.
Copies will be recorded in the Posto project documentation and be available for supervision.
Subproject Approval
7.  In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the Posto Facilitator shall:
(a) not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed between the affected person and the
Conselho de Suco, as mentioned above;
(b) not allow works to start until the compensation has been completed satisfactorily to the affected persons;
(c) in the highly unlikely event that more than 200 persons were affected and required compensation in a village, a
compensation plan has to be prepared, and approved by the national District Administration Office, before the subproject
can be approved.
Complaints and Grievances
8.  All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the village level. If this falls, complaints and
grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the agreements recorded in the Village Minutes or any alleged
irregularity, in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the affected persons or their representative at the sub
district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted to these for a decision.
Verification
9.  The Village Minutes and evidence of compensation -having been made shall be provided to the Posto facilitator
assisting the village, to supervising engineers, auditors and socioeconomic monitors when undertaking reviews under the
Project.



Annex 16: Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
Social Assessment & Recommendations for Gender Inclusion
Issue                                      Recommendation                                 Responsibility
1. PROJECT STAFF - GENDER BALANCE
Only 28% of current facilitators are  50% of the new facilitators should be women               Team leader/trainer
female
Women applicants actively encouraged to fill any new or short    CAA
All of the proposed preparation team are  term positions.
male.                                                                                           CAA
Team leader and other CAA staff need specific advice on gender
aspects of the project.
Team leader/trainer/TOT
Recruitment targets for women in the training and district
Training team and district technical staff  technical staff teams should be 50% and 30% respectively
are still to be recruited
2. PROJECT STAFF - WORKING PROCEDURES
Responsibility for the gender aspects of   Each member of the team has a responsibility for ensuring the  ADB, World Bank,
the project will lie too heavily on the  gender sensitivity of the project. This should be made clear in all  (Team leader)
female facilitators                  terms of reference, and the TORs of individuals need to detail the
responsibilities specific to their position
Equality of wages, and opportunity for    The salaries of male and female staff in each position (facilitator,  CAA/ Team Leader
promotion will given to male and female  trainer or district technical staff) and with similar education and
facilitators, trainers, and district technical  experience backgrounds should be the same.
staff.
Regular evaluations of performance and results should be  Team leader, (facilitator team
undertaken pay increases based on these.                  coordinators)
The average salaries of the male and female staff will be regularly  Team leader,
monitored and the causes of gender gaps should be identified and
discussed



Issue                                      Recommendation                                Responsibility
When facilitators work in mixed pairs the  Both male and female facilitators should have sufficient  Trainer
women may take secondary role        confidence and understanding of gender to be able to explain to
others
Trainer, Facilitator team
Mixed teams should be encouraged, and training provided to  coordinators
male and female facilitators about forming equal working
relationships. However, there should be an option for women to
work together in pairs if they feel strongly that they would prefer
to. Facilitators should be encouraged to discuss this between
themselves
There may be security risks for both male  Security and the gender aspects of security should be discussed    Team leader, facilitator team
and female staff, in some places it is  openly and all efforts made to ensure the safety of both the male   coordinators
possible men would, in fact, be more at   and female project staff
risk than women
In East Timor not all women can ride  Sufficient step-through motorbikes need to be purchased so that   CAA
motorbikes and those that do ride step-    all female facilitators, trainers and district technical staff can be
through makes.                       provided with one
Trainer
For their own safety and security, both    Training in motorbike riding and maintenance to be given as part
male and female staff need to be able to   of the training course for both male and female facilitators
carry out simple repairs on their
mrotorbikes
Provisions for maternity leave are not  Maternity leave will be according to the laws in force at the  CAA
clear                                current time.
Additional costs of providing maternity benefits should be
included in the social costs of the contractor and contracts with
consultants should clarify the provisions
Team leader/ trainer
Additional staff need to be trained so that there are reserves to
stand in as required
3. GENDER TRAINING



Issue                                      Recommendation                                  Responsibility
Gender training needs to be included in    Recommendations for inclusions in the training program are  TOT, Training specialist, Trainers
training courses for trainers, facilitators,   provided separately
village facilitators, electoral committees,
village and sub-district councils, and
district technical staff
4. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION
Men and women receive infornation     The communications strategist is responsible for determining the   Communications strategist
through different media or forums     best ways for ensuring that women at all levels receive the same   (training team)
information as the men using whatever media and language is
appropriate, for example, posters, plays, radio, leaflets
Regular rapid evaluations by facilitators should identify the  Team leader, Facilitators,
effectiveness of the materials used, and also identify those that
are not receiving information in the villages so that new
initiatives can be introduced
5. VILLAGE AND SUB-DISTRICT COUNCILS
The effectiveness of the women on the    A special workshop for women sub-district council members  Team leader
councils may be limited for various  should be organized to discuss their concerns and make
reasons including their limited education, recommendations.
gender roles, and cultural norms.                                                                Training specialist
Gender should be included in the training for the councils
Team leader, facilitators
As the councils become active, facilitators need to identify those
in which women are most active and bring women council
members from other areas to attend these council meetings
Literacy will not be one of the criteria for Discussions will continue with those preparing education projects  World Bank
eligibility to the councils, however,  regarding special literacy education packets for women in the
literate council members are likely to  villages. This will aim to i) increase the literacy of those already
take more prominent and active positions  voted to councils, and ii) increase the literacy of more village
than those that are not literate. It is likely  women so that there is a larger cadre of village women from
that women council members will be less  which to select village council members who are able to be



Issue                                     Recommendation                                Responsibility
literate than the men and therefore the    effective
men will be more prominent.
6. FIRST CYCLE
Shopping list needs to include items  Include sewing machines, needles and thread, weaving materials,  Team leader
specifically required by women.      buckets or jerry cans for carrying water.
7. SECOND CYCLE
Women's priorities should be given equal Village facilitator training needs to include procedures to ensure   Training specialist, facilitators
weight in decision making           that women views are actively sought and effectively presented at
the village council meetings
Women need the opportunity to earn   Women must know that they have the opportunity to participate if Communications strategist
wages                                they want to
Team leader
Alternative working arrangements should be included in the  Trainers facilitator team
procedures and the manuals. These should allow more flexibility  coordinators/ facilitators to
to ensure women have equal opportunity to participate while still  implement
being able to carry out their household and caring
responsibilities- for example, using groups of women laborers  Team leader t
instead of individuals, and paying piece rate instead of daily rates  Facilitators to monitor
Wages must be paid only to the people that do the work i.e. head
of household cannot sign on behalf of other members of the
family
8. THIRD CYCLE: PROPOSAL PREPARATION AND SELECTION
Both men and women must know their    Communications strategy and materials must convey these  Communications strategist
rights, and the importance of women's    messages.
participation                                                                                 Training specialists, trainer
Facilitator and village facilitators must be trained in the strategy
and procedures
Participatory methods needed to ensure   Include in training                                   Training specialist
that men and women's different needs are
identified and recognized



Issue                                     Recommendation                                Responsibility
Women's groups may have less capacity   Village facilitators must be trained to ensure that women's groups  Training team, facilitators
to prepare and present proposals than  have sufficient assistance to prepare proposals.
men's                                                                                         Team leader to include in
Women's groups can choose someone to present the proposal on   procedures
their behalf - this could be a man
9. THIRD CYCLE: IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Women must have full opportunity to  See "Second cycle recommendations"
earn wages
Men and women must both be included in  Councils and communities should be encouraged to include  Team leader/ communications
the management of implementation     women among the activity managers for both infrastructure and    strategist
economic activities
Women should be included in the      Strategies for ensuring transparency must ensure that women  Communications strategist
monitoring and evaluation of the project  have easy access to the information and that they understand their
responsibilities for monitoring the use of the funds
Training specialist
Participatory methods for monitoring at village level (see
methods proposed by A. Sweetser)
The positive impacts of encouraging  Monitoring procedures need to be developed to monitor the  Team leader
women's participation in local      impact of having more women in local governance
governance are merely hypothetical at
this stage
. CULTURAL HERITAGE AND ASSETS                                                                _NG_team
Both women and men have suffered in  Oral histories will be collected from both men and women. The  I NGO team
the fight for independence           suffering of women and children, as well as that of men, need to
be documented and memorialized
Female role models are needed to     Stories of past and present prominent East Timorese women need  NGO team
reassure both men and women that     to be researched and recorded in stories, plays, or songs
women can be visible in society, and be
leaders, without destroying culture and    Opportunities need to be created for today's prominent women to



Issue                                     Recommendation                               Responsibility
traditions                          assist in increasing the capacity and effectiveness of the women
in the local councils
Many men have paid a high price for  Further discussions to be held                          World Bank
independence either through years in the
forest in Fretilin, imprisonment, torture,
and recent loss of homes and property.
They may feel they have earned the right
to control
The arts and crafts of both women and  Textiles will be a prominent part of the displays, there is also a
men should feature in the cultural center   proposal to open a restaurant specializing in local food. The
culture center is therefore a good opportunity for women's crafts
to receive attention
Men and women should be represented on the board and there
should be a gender balance arnong the recipients of the grants
11. WIDOWS AND VULNERABLE GROUPS
There are many widows and other     The facilitators will start to collect information on the vulnerable  Team Leader/ training specialist
vulnerable groups in communities that    groups including widows once they are in the field.
may not have access to the main grant                                                        WB to prepare TOR for group
program. Some of these may be de facto   Local NGO women will design the component once more
widows who are wives of the militia and  information is available.
great sensitivity will be needed in the
design of the special program given the
social tensions that exist



Annex 17: Development "Exit" Plan for Handover to Timorese
East Timor Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
The goal of the Community Empowerment and Local Governance project is to help Timorese communities
develop the organizational capacities to make bottom-up decisions about development planning and management.
Over time, the institutional and planning structures developed through the project are expected to become sustainable
through their incorporation into the regular budget and administrative structures of post-transition Timor Loro Sae.
However, there is no mandated link between the project's completion and the full normalization of the CEP approach
throughout the country's administration. It is expected that many of the project management skills developed by
people working with CEP will be needed beyond the life of the project. The purpose of this note is to summarize the
strategic plan for handing over the project's management functions to the future independent government of East
Timor.
International technical assistance for management exists in the overall PMU (one position) and for Component
One (community grants and local governance). Components Two and Three do not involve international technical
assistance.
Within the overall Project Management Unit, situated in UNTAET, the project's financial management action
plan include a proposal to train 13 Timorese financial officers. Their job will be to manage project disbursements and
accounting in each of the participating districts. The costs of training these staff will be absorbed by the project. It is
expected that other projects will also use these specialists. Gaining financial management experience across a range of
projects is a key step in readying district administrations for subsequent handover. By the end of the project, all
thirteen districts should have a fully functioning Timorese-run financial management system.
Project disbursements will be under the supervision of an overall UNTAET chief financial officer, who will be
paired with a Timorese deputy financial officer for training and eventual hand-over. Project procurement will be
handled initially through an internationally hired procurement agent, a function that can be phased out over time as the
local availability of trading and procurement agents expands.
The terms of reference for service delivery under Component One, which will initially be a contract given to
Oxfam/Community Aid Abroad, include the training and development of two Timorese understudies for each
international position. Oxfam/CAA's initial, six-month contract (financed by the ADB) requires a joint review (ADB,
WB, CNRT, UNTAET) to assess their staff development strategy before the contract is renewed. A similar review will
be carried out during the project's mandatory annual programming review, which will determine how many of the
international functions can be turned over to their Timorese counterparts and on what date. Contract provisions will
reflect the possibility that international services may be terminated ahead of schedule if Timorese counterparts are
adequately prepared, so that there are no disincentives against handover.
Although initial stages of the project include procurement through an international agent because of the
massive disruptions in local marketing and distribution systems, project provisions switch procurement into local
shopping as soon as goods appear on the market. The procurement agent's terms of reference specify that international
shopping should happen only if the cost of purchase and shipping is still less than buying goods in East Timor. Over
time, it is expected that communities will manage their own procurement. Special forms and procedures to make
procurement understandable to villagers and easy to manage are already built into the project's design.
Three other components of the project will be "handed over" from its very beginning. All of the cultural
heritage grants will be managed through an independent governance board chaired by a Timorese. Similarly, the work
to support the gender program, which includes the special program for widows and other vulnerable groups, support to
women councillors, and the social reconciliation program for victims of violence, will be run entirely by Timorese
from the outset. Finally, the project includes a component to support local Timorese NGOs (i.e. in towns and districts



outside of Dili). National Timorese NGOs must form a governing board and develop the rulebook for these small
grants before these funds can be used.
Finally, it should be noted that the overall financial structure of the project reflects assumptions about the
amount of public funding that will be available to support the program after independence. Most costs are
"frontloaded" - that is, the startup costs are billed to the international trust fund. The recurrent costs that will be picked
up by the future Timorese government are much less, and should not exceed $7 million annually to cover the entire
country with community grants on a sustainable basis.
There are several other areas where strategies are needed to accelerate handover. The most important of these
concerns the still undefined structure of district administration. From within the project, representatives from the posto
councils will participate in the recommended district support councils. As the functions of that job become clearer,
project funds can be used to develop Timorese capacities at the district government level through a variety of
activities.



Annex 18: EXAMINING ENVIROMENTAL IMPACTS OF SUB-PROJECTS
While no major environmental impacts are expected from the project, and only minor
environmental risks area associated with most of the activities at the community level,
there is a need to develop a series of sectoral matrices/guidelines of potential impacts for
inclusion in the Project Manual. These matrices/guidelines would then be used at the
village and sub-district level for the preparation of a preliminary environmental
examination of the subprojects.
Matrices would be prepared for the various sectors (roads, irrigation, public building, etc)
and would support the identification of the environmental issues for each site and each
subproject. Preparation of (i) the guidelines/matrixes (for inclusion in the technical
manual) and (ii) an environmental assessment training program for the sub-district
reviewers and the district technical specialists reviewing the project proposals, would be
done under the ADB TA to the Community Recovery and Local Governance Project.
This will probably require no more than one person/month of international TA; a contract
variation using contingency funds can accommodate for the budget.
The basic mechanism of the preliminary environmental examination exercise would be
the following:
1) During the preparation phase, the proponents will identify potential environmental
impacts against the guidelines (matrixes/checklists) and attach a preliminary matrix of
impacts (with proposed prevention/mitigation measures) to the sub-project proposal.
2) At the sub-district level one of the members of the reviewing team who has completed
the basic training in environmental assessment and mitigation will undertake a substantial
review aiming at completing the matrix to an acceptable quality degree,
3) At the district level the officer in charge of the technical review (also trained in IEE)
will carry out additional control and screening of the matrixes and undertake an overall
environmental review during the site-visits. A revised complete matrix should result with
a list of prevention/mitigation measures for all minor and medium impact activities.
4) Activities having potential major environmental impact, if any, should be clearly
identified at the sub-district and specially at the district level so that alternative courses of
action could be designed including prevention and mitigation measures, choice of
different technologies, change of project scope or specific activities, etc. In case
alternative courses of action are not possible the project should be rejected on the basis of
its major environmental impact.
This is just an initial idea to be further developed once back in HQ and then refined by
both institutions. Ones of the major benefits of this proposal is the environmental
awareness generated at the community and sub-district level together with and initial
capacity building for environmental assessment at sub-district and particularly at the
district level.






MAP SECTION






1 24~                                               121                                   Airp2,zMosrJrii Nhu5                                                 1r                                         IBRD 30626
Ba n d a    Sea e elWetrsld
Iskrnd'                 ,.AoR, lnr;RK,              K-r
I N   PD O   N   E  S        A                                                                A *t C 7~n__ po_<-->, Af>7- dsro 0 |Au  Strait  of  Wetar                                l1,_3                    d
t    LIjbE   iy-t;                    '7' =ce~                                                              -,                                                            =->               >
Savu  Sea  
*<cys-p,<=2  z~ :~ :r>iiL<ililt                            2'l  r                              NflO!
AIQvm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                       AROT
L            AMINSTRTIV   CENTE
D - : 1;lRgt', S.,. >      s,,, r'  f flMcO      n                              SEICT ,OUNDAS
C-f  ~       -1 
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No~    {f.6I,. Mo  .aUNof b. ',14.66. 
P..T Bo6e, 1410   mInoj1, 144 EAST   TIM                                                                  OR
t1.24,, CX0'                       i2'                                                                           125:                                                  :)  12' -'  T DR7
ai v u z; V  5  5  !   S e ;a_515tA
Seb>7  f'j't000 0 Uj200\ a > a a a 3 g ; fNUFA:
-9                      l       _                                                                                                  \      i f       i_        ;     il                      hoddt^lilfWffffflo   &i,unfTeodn
<;  9,E l r . ,i f,,,OO , fi,,P ee1 profT WldfnfJJu onta
- '    effJrlfi                                                            :                                                                i':~Mmm sa
:;   ;.';.,~3             2e                                            ,;    |  122ralT6                                                ,                                              127



