Report No. PID8576
Project Name                     East Timor-Community Empowerment and...
Local Governance Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Social
Project ID                       TPSF69762
Borrower(s)                      United Nations Transitional Administration for East
Timor
Implementing Agency              UNTAET Department of District Administration
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           December 27, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 31, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 1, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      This project follows from the Community Empowerment report of the World
Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) to East Timor in November, 1999. The
JAM found that (i) virtually the entire pre-independence governance structure
has disappeared from every level; (ii) all technical sectors have also
disappeared; (iii) the loss of physical infrastructure is pervasive, reaching
as high as 100t in the cities of Dili, Manututo, Suai, Oekussi, and Los Palos
and much of their hinterlands. Transportation, supplies, and commercial
warehouses were looted across the country, and a commercial distribution
system effectively no longer exists. The economy has been hit by a dramatic
supply shock, due to the destruction or looting of local inventories of
manufactured goods, the closing of the border with West Timor, and the lack
of civilian access to ports. The physical infrastructure and equipment in
every bank has been destroyed or looted, and there currently is no payment
system in operation that enables public or private entities to pay salaries
or suppliers for goods and services. Even more important, there is a
dramatic shortage of skilled personnel for the secondary and tertiary sectors
since most technical positions were occupied by Indonesians, who have left
the territory. It is estimated that the destruction will result in a drop of
40-45w of GDP.
2.      Of a pre-crisis population of 850,000 people, approximately 100,000-
150,000 are still refugees within Indonesian camps. It is estimated that in
the weeks following the ballot, 75t of the population was displaced and
almost 70t of the country's physical infrastructure was destroyed or rendered
inoperable. Social sectors show similar rates of destruction: the health
system has lost all fixed equipment and consumables, and 130 of 160
physicians, while the education sector lost all textbooks and school
materials, and somewhere around 75t of the country's secondary teachers are
almost certain to have been deployed. About 75t of the primary school
teachers were Timorese and are thus available to help, but school buildings
were especially targeted by the militias and very few remain usable.



3.      For the local levels of social organization with which the proposed
project is concerned, governance and social issues reflect both the problems
of the previous administrative system, compounded by the problems caused by
the violence that surrounded independence. The prior administrative system
reflects top-down, highly centralized administrative systems that supported
low-cost, centralized control. As a result, political accountabilities lay
mostly upwards. Even village administrators in the Indonesian system reflect
loyalty to the district head rather than loyalty to a popular constituency.
4.      Development programs by and large reflected the availability of
centralized budgets rather than a response to locally perceived and expressed
needs. Thus, despite a relatively large expenditure on Timorese development,
on-the-ground impacts were relatively slight, ownership was low, and long-
term sustainability of most development programs has been minimal.
Alternative program designs that emphasize community ownership, high quality
TA, and more local adaptation show significantly superior results.
5.      The second issue facing community recovery lies in the distorting nature
of the recovery, transition, and redevelopment fiscal picture. Relatively
large amounts of money are likely to be available for reconstruction over the
short term; vastly smaller amounts of revenue, international technical
assistance, and development aid will be available to the government once hand
over happens. The temptation to design structures and systems during the
transitional period that cannot be sustained by the independent government is
high. The proposed project assumes minimum independent resource availability
following the transition. A relatively high share of project resources are
allocated for capacity development during the project's early years. This
level fades away towards the project's latter stages to reach a level that
the macroeconomic team of the JAM reconstruction mission believes can be
sustained through own revenues over the longer term.
6.      The third issue of relevance concerns the capacity of communities to
plan and manage development decisions. Ethnographic literature and practical
experience through a broad range of community development projects suggests
that core capacities to carry out basic development functions exist in most
(though not all) Timorese communities. The Indonesian administration
undermined many of the traditional bases of Timorese capacity through
programs of forced relocation and aggregation, regulations that banned
community participation in local infrastructure maintenance, and introduction
of institutional alternatives to community organizations that undermined
local capacities and made communities dependent on badly managed, higher-
level government institutions, including a sudden explosion of government run
community groups, each invented to implement the latest donor-funded project.
Furthermore, the complex system of government permitting and organizational
restrictions effectively meant that government agencies effectively retained
monopoly control over all forms of communication between the levels of the
system: information about programs, requests from below, reports of
corruption and bad decision-making; all had to go through the very same
government channels that were responsible for administering the programs.
7.      Key ethnographic aspects relevant to local capacities in East Timor
include the fact that (i) decision-making units are often quite small (aldea
or lower) and dispersed; (ii) the strength of traditional structures varies
significantly across the country; (iii) time frames must be sufficiently
flexible to allow for full socialization, especially for isolated and
-2 -



marginal groups; (iv) gaining trust and credibility is critical and will
require time and resources; (iv) information must be widely available, in
local languages, and it must use multiple media, especially graphics; (v)
special measures must be taken to ensure women's full participation (i.e.
separate meetings, female facilitators); (vi) project facilitators will need
to maintain full contact with a broad range of traditional and informal
groups; (vii) local dispute resolution procedures need to be incorporated
into project development.
8.      The proposed project approach cuts across a variety of sectors,
especially given (i) the overall lack of an integrated administrative
structure that can provide line agency service delivery; (ii) the need to
develop a reconstruction framework that can be sustained by subsequent
administrations; and (iii) the fiscal requirements to keep government service
and administrative positions small in number and limited to levels where
specific expertise is required, with most localized development functions
being carried out by communities themselves, supported by the private/NGO
sectors.
9.      Reversing accountabilities means cutting through the administrative and
fiscal controls previously exerted by higher administrative levels. Using
popularly elected councils at each level of the system and building in
unallocated block grants as their financial base of support is one leg of
this project; using trained facilitators and engineers recruited from NGOs
and private companies that can respond to community demands is the other.
The thread through both activities is the increase in the mechanisms being
used to promote public sector transparency to local civic organizations.
Project Description
10.     Three policy goals lie behind this project.    One is to provide a sound
foundation for the new country's structure of local government. The key
elements of this are to provide positive incentives, an organizational
structure, and downward accountabilities for village and sub-district
governments. The second goal of the project is to provide a framework for
channeling aid and special programs into communities beginning their
reconstruction following independence in a way that increases local
ownership, uses and develops indigenous capacities. The third objective is
to facilitate a transition from the UN interim administration into the
independent government by the end of its three year life span. The project
thus emphasizes joint, consultative planning and coordination mechanisms
throughout its structure to promote ownership and involvement by the
Timorese, but it also includes a full program of capacity development over
its lifetime
11.     Community grants (approx. $15-20 million). The main development
objective of the Community Empowerment Project is to let villagers make their
own choices about the kinds of projects that they need and want, and thus the
main purpose of the grants is to support development proposals produced by
communities. The financial core of the Community Empowerment Project lies in
the unallocated block grants that will be given to each sub-district in East
Timor on an annual basis for the three year life of the project. Project
support through district level technical specialists and local level
facilitators will provide village men and women with the information,
opportunity, and freedom of choice that they need to make informed,
- 3-



responsible, decisions.
12.     The near total elimination of the previous administrative apparatus
provides a unique opportunity to rebuild a local governance structures that
encourages democratic accountability from the bottom up. The first activity
of the community empowerment program will be to work with villagers to
appoint an interim governance council made up of equal numbers of men and
women. Each village group will then pick a man and a woman from the village
council to participate in a sub-district level council that represents all of
the villages within the sub-district. Sub-district councils will appoint an
independent group consisting of an executive officer, a treasurer, and a
secretary to manage sub-district affairs, maintain sub-district funds, and
keep records.
13.     Each village council will work with villagers and the facilitators to
identify priority needs, which will be drawn up into a small proposal. Once
the facilitators confirm that the village councils have been formed and that
basic rules about popular participation in their selection have been
followed, the project will release a standard amount of $15,000 to each sub-
district to be divided equally among each member village in a one-time grant
to launch the village reconstruction process. Because of the urgency of
reconstruction needs and the physical difficulty of purchasing and
distributing physical goods in East Timor right now, this first grant is
restricted to a limited positive list of priority physical works (building
and house repair, irrigation maintenance, small productive infrastructure,
etc).
14.     Planning for the second phase begins with meetings in all hamlets and
neighborhoods. Based on population groupings, participating subdistricts each
get $50,000, $75,000 or $100,000 per year for the two year life of the
project. This money is allocated within subdistricts on the basis of
competing proposals made by aldeas and villages. Subproject concepts will be
made on a simple, pre-printed format, after which still simple but more
detailed proposals will be prepared that explain a subproject's purpose, cost
requirements, technical needs, etc. Each village can submit up to two
proposals to the village council, but if there are two proposals, the second
one must come from a woman's group. Facilitators draw on a small preparation
budget to provide communities with technical assistance for more complex
projects where expertise is needed to assess project feasibility and to cost
out construction.
15.     Other than a small negative list (government buildings, religious
structures, pesticides, etc), funds can be used either for physical
infrastructure or productive economic investments. Productive loans will
reflect local interest rates. An estimated two percent of the grant will be
used to support the village council's operating expenses; another 2; of the
sub-district grant cis retained by the sub-district to support the council
and operating unit; and the final 19 supports the subdistrict
representative's participation in the district coordinating council. All
information about how this money is used will be publicly posted. No other
overheads or charges are allowed.
16.     Verification of the village proposals takes place in two stages:    first,
a sub-district review by a team appointed by the sub-district council,
followed later by an technical review made by the district technical
- 4 -



specialist hired by the project. Technical reviews will include site visits
by the review teams, and written reports by the reviewers will be read out
loud in the open, decision-making meeting run by the sub-district council
that is attended by all subproject proponents and other community members.
The council discussion evaluates competing proposals on the basis of their
ability to reach the poor, their reflection of local contributions, and the
group opinion of their technical soundness and merits. Once the council has
decided on which proposals merit funding from the sub-district grant, a
final, public meeting is held to explain the results of the discussion, and
to begin preparation of implementation.
17.     The proposed design includes a second, additional financial window
within the grant that is earmarked for highly vulnerable groups within each
community, as identified through on-site participatory rural appraisals
managed by the facilitator together with the communities. Many of these
groups are expected to be widows and the disabled. Because not all villages
within a sub-district were equally affected by the violence, sub-district
councils would have the option of distributing the safety net grant equally
among all member villages, or allocating it disproportionately based on group
assessments of need. Technical training and backup for the facilitators will
include referral linkages to health programs and specialized Timorese NGOs
for the more complex cases of trauma and psychosocial problems. This activity
is expected to begin late in the first year, after the core governance
councils are in place and the project is already broadly understood within
the communities.
18.     All projects approved by the sub-district must make a subproject
agreement between the beneficiaries, and the village and sub-district
councils that specifies the date, cost, schedule of fund needs, O&M plan,
community contribution, repayment schedule (for economic projects) and
compliance with safeguard policies. Subprojects can use up to a maximum of
10. of their funds for technical assistance through community contracting;
all such TA must come from lists approved by the district technical
specialist and cannot come from the home village. Villages will seek out
three competing price quotations for all purchased items, although in some
cases which will require district certification, local shopping procedures
may not yet be possible during the project's first year because of the war.
In those few instance involving direct community procurement, supplier bids
will be opened in public meetings following special procedures that meet
project procurement criteria and also support the development of transparent,
community based procurement.
19.     Money will be withdrawn from accounts maintained in the District
Administration. Once each sub-district has agreed on the subprojects to be
supported with its grant, they are endorsed by the facilitator and copies are
sent to the District Treasury, which can release up to 50- of the total
grant amount against the certified proposal. Withdrawals require the joint
presence and signature of the project proponent, a council representative,
and the sub-district treasurer. Specimen signature forms that are simple to
use yet provide multiple accountabilities will be developed during project
preparation.
20.     Transparency will be a key feature of the project.    Information needs to
be accessible and easily understood by villagers. All financial information
will be publically posted, and facilitator teams are expected to use a
- 5 -



variety of media to convey information about the project and its progress.
Project preparation includes the development of a "villager's bill of
rights" and a detailed protocol for handling community complaints.
Community councils will be responsible for publically posting project
information on large signboards. These signboards will be updated monthly.
UNTAET District Administrators will also post the status of community
accounts and activities in district and subdistrict signboards. The national
and district technical teams will also develop both a computerized MIS system
and a registry of project complaints and their resolution which will also be
public domain information. The project expects to involve diverse NGOs and
news media as independent monitors on project performance and impacts.
21.     No final decisions have been made yet on the final structuring of the
project, which must wait appraisal. All funds for project activities will be
on a grant basis. Both the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are in
the process of approving trust funds for the development of East Timor that
contain their own resources, plus parallel trust funds that will be filled
through bilateral participation. Project preparation will take this
uncertainty into account. Because of the project's modular design (per-
subdistrict costs are fixed ratios that aren't entirely dependent on each
other), the final size of the project can be adjusted to fit the available
funds with relatively little extra effort. Similar adjustments can also be
made through annual programming reviews. Thus, project preparation will
prepare the full community empowerment program for all of East Timor,
although in Year 1 committed financing is likely to be available for a
fraction of the whole.
22.     Cultural heritage ($2.0 million) -- The cultural program will encompass
three core activities. First, the community based program of oral history and
historical memory will document and display people's recollections of recent
history. Many of these stories will become part of community libraries
(supported under the project), and part of the country's archival record for
future generations. The second activity is the development of a national
performance center and museum. The center will include a small vocational
school, rotating displays, and a series of gallery and performance spaces
where international and Timorese artists and artisans can perform, hold
workshops, and conduct seminars. The focus of the museum will be on living
arts and outreach to the different Timorese communities.. The third activity
links the culture program to civic education programs. It will be closely
associated with the new school curriculum being developed, but will also
include collaboration with CNRT, NGOs, the church, and other civic groups.
The component will include a small-grants activity to support innovative
rights and culture initiatives, with a special emphasis on ideas from
regional and local groups.
23.     Socioeconomic Monitoring ($1.0 million)    -- No integrated system to
track progress of the reconstruction and rehabilitation process exists.
Furthermore, given the diversity of needs across East Timor and the limited
resources available for supplying them, a priority activity is the
development of a reliable system to gather socioeconomic information to
target programs and evaluate their effectiveness. The JAM recommended that
the Ministry of Finance develop an integrated system of statistical
monitoring. This component would be the first foundation for this effort: a
series of quantitative and qualitative expenditure and social welfare
surveys. Project funds would support the development of TOR for the surveys,
- 6 -



training of Timorese statisticians and enumerators, development of data
processing facilities, and training programs in how to use socioeconomic
statistics for national and local planning. Partnerships would be sought with
international universities and statistical research organizations, and the
component could also fund a small number of overseas fellowships for advanced
students.
24.     Innovations Fund ($0.75 million) The project provisionally includes an
innovations fund to support policy and action research on problems where
gains could be had from subsequent large-scale program work. Eligibility
criteria will be developed through preparation, but the kinds of activities
envisaged would include support for community based land dispute resolution,
studies on local tax laws, intra village targeting mechanisms, and selected
NGO field pilots that would need multiple site testing before they could be
scaled up into larger projects. Approvals for pilot fund proposals would
come from a national level steering group. A maximum of 309 of this fund
could be used to prepare a follow-on project for the independent Timorese
government
Project Management
25.     The project's management secretariat will report to a joint UNTAET-civil
society Transitional Council on an occasional basis (i.e. bimonthly) or when
there are special problems to solve .
26.     At the district level, a coordinating committee consisting of the UNTAET
district administration, the district technical specialist, the sub-district
representatives to the district, and CNRT, the church and other civil society
representatives will form a district-level support committee. At the sub-
district level, a sub-district facilitator, the democratically elected sub-
district council, and a UN volunteer reporting to UNTAET will form a sub-
district committee. Finally, at the village level, coordination will be
through the elected village council.
27.     Operational implementation will be through technical specialists
recruited from NGOs and the private sector. A national secretariat will be
responsible for overall technical management. They will supervise 13 district
technical specialists. Each technical specialist coordinates one facilitator
in each sub-district, for an average total of five facilitators per district.
Each sub-district facilitator handles all of the villages in their sub-
district. At the bottommost level of the system, each village selects two
villagers (one man, one woman) to work with the TA team. They participate in
a specially designed training program, and they receive a small salary or
honorarium.
28.     Risks - This Project Information Document reflects an early approach to
design and can be expected to change as the project develops. Nevertheless,
in such an uncertain environment there is a limit to how many risks can be
controlled through advanced planning. Most of the important improvements in
project design will come through feedback from the field. This section of the
PID summarizes some of the design risks that will b reviewed during the
project's end January appraisal:
(i)     Is the project too large or too small; is the trade-off between speed,
need, and quality framed correctly?
-7-



(ii)    Can communities manage funds or should procurement remain central?
(iii)   Is there a clean structure for transferring funds downwards;
(iv)    Does the project structure come into conflict with traditional patterns
of social organization;
(v)     Are sanctions and controls adequate?
(vi)    Is there a strategic program to develop capacity rather than just a
series of unrelated activities?
(vii)   Are the project's learning mechanisms adequate?
29.     With nearly 40t of the project's estimated costs going to technical
assistance and service contractors, the project exceeds all normal TA ratios.
Nevertheless, such high, short-term ratios are justified by the
institutional development goals of the project in a context in which every
single government and private sector institution has completely disappeared.
Furthermore, virtually all forms of transportation were destroyed, thus
raising initial purchase costs for TA staff substantially. In most parts of
the country and for much of the project's lifetime, the community and sub-
district councils formed through the project will be the only functioning
forum for community decision-making and action. This is foreseen and accepted
by both the UNTAET interim administration and by the CNRT shadow
administration. Benefits from developing capable, democratically elected, and
accountable representatives will extend well beyond the lifetime of this
project.
Social and Environmental Issues
30.     Poverty -- Approximately 90 W of East Timor's population live in rural
sub-districts. The proposed project's scope covers all of them. Prior to the
conflict, about 50t of East Timor's population fell below the $1.00 poverty
line threshold. Poverty calculations made after the conflict have little
meaning given the devastating scale of physical destruction and the loss of
household assets of all kinds. Thus, close to 100t of the beneficiary
population from the proposed project will consist of the poor. Even within
the overall program, the special program component for widows will reach some
of the poorest of the poor - in a context where everyone is poor.
31.     Social risks stem primarily from the locally complex social environment.
Of prime concern is the ability of the project's design and the project
facilitators to cope with both the broad range of traditional institutions
found across East Timor, and the highly localized forms of loyalty. Also of
concern is whether the implementation demands of project implementation
override the need for carefully based timing and broad-based inclusion in the
field. In general, the social design of the project is one that opens
"spaces" for different vulnerable and marginalized groups (i.e. women,
landless) through training, participatory methodologies, etc. Support is
provided for communities and facilitators that respond to these
opportunities, . but the project does not set targets or dictate outcomes.
32.     No major safeguard policy issues are anticipated. On the social side,
the project includes a simple operational policy that meets all Bank
resettlement criteria. Past experience shows that the kinds of infrastructure
works selected by communities are very small and cause little land
acquisition. The project approach is to (i) minimize all land acquisition;
(ii) require that all village plans involving land acquisition meet
commitments to replace acquired land with equivalent or better land; (iii)
- 8 -



include training in these procedures in facilitator training; (iv) emphasize
participatory resolution of land issues; (v) assign sign-off requirements
that the project's land acquisition rules were followed to the district
engineer; (vi) require full plans for the unlikely event that any
involuntary resettlement involves more than 5 families (no cases have been
identified). No special indigenous people's issues are expected to arise
since the (i) the project does not involve especially vulnerable, isolated
groups; and (ii) participatory projects' own mechanisms meet the Bank's
indigenos people'spolicy criteria of making culturally informed choices about
development.
33.     The main approaches to environmental issues are (i) to place pesticides,
explosive, and large fishing boats on the project negative list; and (ii) to
use standard environmental engineering practices introduced through the
mandatory project design manual and training programs.
34.     The project design assumptions reflected in the this PID are all
tentative. They will be reviewed during appraisal and through discussions
with UNTAET, CNRT, and civil society organizations.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Scott Guggenheim
Task Team Leader
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9246
Fax:        (202) 522-1666
Email: sguggenheim@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 7, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 10 -



