Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-023534
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
IN EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated February 21, 2000
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-023534
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 2000, between the UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL 
ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, the Executive Directors 
established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency 
reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the Association as 
trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, and whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project;
(D)
the Recipient has also requested  Japan to provide additional financing 
Page  2
towards the financing of the Project, and by an agreement dated February 10, 2000, 
between the Recipient and the Bank (as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan) 
the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to $1,550,000 (the Japan Grant);
(E)
the Recipient intends to obtain from the Asian Development Bank (the ADB) 
a grant in an amount of US$990,000 (the ADB Grant) to assist in financing the 
technical assistance under Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered between the Recipient and the ADB (the ADB Technical 
Assistance Letter);
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the TFET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The General Conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of  
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3,  B.1,  and  B.2  of   the   Project,  has  or  would  have  his  
or  her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in 
any house, land (including premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other 
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
(b)
"Borrower" and "Borrowers" means a person and persons, respectively, 
responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project;
(c)
"Civil Society Support Manual" means the Manual to be prepared to assist 
in the implementation of Sub-projects under Part C of the Project through the 
description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, 
reporting requirements, and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Manual 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee; 
(d)
"Conselho do Posto" is the term used to describe a development council at 
the sub-district level;
(e)
"Conselho do Suco" is the term used to describe a development council at 
the village level;
(f)
"Credit" means a credit made by the Conselho do Suco to a Borrower or 
Borrowers for a Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project out of funds made available 
by the Recipient out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
(g)
"Cultural Heritage Support Manual" means the Manual to be prepared to 
assist in the implementation of Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project through the 
description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, 
reporting requirements, and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Manual 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(h)
"Fiscal Year" means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing July 1 and 
ending June 30;
(i)
"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the guidelines 
prepared by the Recipient, in agreement with the Trustee, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in the Project Manual, and as such Guidelines may be amended from time 
to time in agreement with the Trustee;
(j)
"Highly Vulnerable Groups" means groups, identified through on-site 
participatory rural appraisals, having special needs, and including widows, the 
Page  3
elderly and the disabled;
(k)
"Project Management Unit" means the unit within the Recipient’s Office of 
Governance and Public Administration  responsible for the coordination of Project 
activities and for the implementation of the financial management action plan; 
(l)
"Project Management Sub-Unit" means each of the Sub-Units within the 
Project Management Unit responsible for the management of the relevant Part A, B or C 
of the Project;
(m)
"Project Manual" means the Project Manual dated January 2000, to assist 
the Conselho do Suco, the Conselho do Posto and Borrowers in the implementation of 
Sub-projects under Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project through the description of, 
inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting requirements, 
the Project Performance Indicators, Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, 
environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for 
works to be carried out under the Sub-project and criteria for the selection of 
Sub-projects, as such Project Manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Trustee;
(n)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Sub-district" means a Sub-district selected by the Recipient for 
participation in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
"Sub-Grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the Grant for a Sub-project under Parts A.1, A.3, B.2 and C of the 
Project; and
(r)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out under Parts 
A.1, A.2, A.3, B.2 and C of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Grant or a 
Credit.
ARTICLE II
The TFET Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the TFET Grant in an 
amount equal to seven million Dollars ($7,000,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolution referred to in Whereas (B) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the TFET Grant may be withdrawn from the TFET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on 
account of a Sub-Grant or a Credit made under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.2 and C of the 
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) 
for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.4, A.5, A.6, and B.1 of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Office of Governance and Public Administration of the United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering, 
environmental, financial and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the TFET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the TFET 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the TFET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the right of the Recipient 
to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Recipient for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, 
acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted; a Project Chief Financial Officer has 
been employed, and at least thirteen District Project Accountants have been selected;
(b)
that the final approval of the Bank contribution to the TFET has been 
completed;
(c)
that a regulation, acceptable to the Trustee, has been issued by the 
Recipient on the establishment of development councils at the village and sub-district 
levels termed Conselho do Suco and Conselho do Posto, respectively; and
(d)
that the Project Management Unit has been established within the Office 
of Governance and Public Administration, with qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 6.02. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the 
Trustee dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
by Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective, the 
Trustee may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 6.03. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
Page  6
date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o GPA - Office of the DSRSG
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889422198
61-889815157
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
      IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
By /s/ James Wolfenson
Authorized Representative
In the presence of 
CONSELHO NACIONAL DA RESISTENCIA TIMORENSE
By /s/ Xanana Gusmão
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the TFET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the TFET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the TFET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   TFET Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-Grants and Credits
100% of Sub-
Grant amount and
(a) Part A of the Project  3,650,000
100% of Credit
amount
(b) Parts B and C of the
50,000
Project
(2)  Goods (including 
     500,000
100%
transportation)
(3)
Consultants’
   2,400,000
100%
services
(4)
Unallocated
     400,000
TOTAL
   7,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) a Sub-Grant or a Credit unless a Sub-project agreement has been entered 
into in accordance with paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (c) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (b) until the Cultural 
Heritage Support Manual and the Civil Society Support Manual have been issued pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraphs 9 and 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the TFET Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-Grants and 
Credits; (b) goods; and (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at 
less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals 
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
TFET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the TFET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) strengthening 
the capacity of sub-districts and villages to plan and implement their development 
decisions, (ii) building and reconstructing basic economic infrastructure, (iii) 
supporting productive economic activities, and (iv) supporting cultural heritage and 
social reconciliation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A:
Community Sub-Grants and Credits
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the 
provision of Sub-grants to the relevant Conselho do Suco.
Page  8
2.
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages through the 
provision of Credits to Borrowers.
3.
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and education and health 
programs in villages through the provision of Sub-Grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups 
in such villages.
4.
Strengthening the Conselho do Suco and the Conselho do Posto through the 
provision of technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, office furniture and 
related materials.
5.
Provision of training in public administration to the Conselho do Suco, Conselho 
do Posto and local leaders.
6.
Provision of financial advisors to district administrations.
7.
Monitoring of the Project’s impact on poverty in the Project Sub-Districts,  
including provision of related technical assistance. 
Part B:
Cultural Heritage and Social Reconciliation
1.
Reconstruction of a national heritage and performance center in Dili.
2.
Carrying out of cultural projects and social reconciliation activities in 
villages through the provision of Sub-Grants to such villages and the provision of 
technical assistance.
Part C:
Civil Society Support 
Carrying out of projects including development of communications, poverty 
alleviation, local environmental activities, and reproductive health, through the 
provision of Sub-Grants and technical assistance to local non-governmental 
organizations, women’s organizations, religious organizations and student 
organizations.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published by the 
Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
1.
International Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Section, works shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and 
Page  9
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Works required for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, and B.2 of the Project may be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and the first contract in each District estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more but less than $200,000, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Trustee a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Trustee a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the Project Management Unit shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Page  10
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts B and C of the Project, which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall select Project Sub-districts that meet the following 
criteria, namely, that 50% or more of the population living in the sub-district prior 
to August 1999, remain in or has returned to such sub-district.
2.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the relevant 
Project Management Sub-Unit:
(a)
inform the District Administrator of each Project Sub-district of the 
appointment of a sub-district facilitator for purposes of the Project by not later 
than April 30 in each year, commencing April 30, 2000, and until completion of the 
Project; and
(b)
issue to the Project Sub-districts, by not later than April 30 in each 
year, commencing April 30, 2000, public information aimed at disclosing to villagers 
and their representatives, all administrative, financial, environmental, procedural 
and technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and 
implementation of Sub-projects; and make such information, including the Project 
Manual, freely available for consultation at the Sub-district office.
3.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause Sub-projects in 
Project Sub-districts to be selected in accordance with the following criteria:
(a)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.1 of the Project shall be a public 
Page  11
infrastructure investment project which is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting 
from it;
(b)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.2 of the Project shall be an 
income-generating investment project that is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified;
(c)
each Sub-project under Part A.3 of the Project for Highly Vulnerable 
Groups shall be a project or an activity that is technically and economically 
justified;
(d)
the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount 
of Sub-Grants and Credits approved in the relevant Project Sub-district does not 
exceed the aggregate of:
(i)
$25,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 5,000 or 
less;
(ii)
$50,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 15,000 or 
less but more than 5,000;
(iii)
$75,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 25,000 or 
less but more than 15,000; and
(iv)
$100,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is more than 
25,000.
(e)
no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous goods (including  asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs, or (iii) include 
the financing of government salaries.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Recipient shall, through the relevant 
Project Management Sub-Unit, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works under a 
Sub-project, the District technical specialist shall have completed a technical review 
of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:
(a)
the criteria described in paragraph 3 of this Schedule have been complied 
with;
(b)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Sub-Grant or Credit and any voluntary contributions to be made 
by villagers;
(c)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the 
Project Manual;
(d)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 8 of this Schedule;
(e)
a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan 
for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual; and
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Trustee and 
has been included in the Sub-project agreement, which shall include assignment of 
maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the preparation of training 
programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the village, and the 
identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
5.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the relevant 
Project Management Sub-Unit to ensure that:
(a)
Credits are made on terms and conditions agreed with the Trustee and set 
forth in the Project Manual; 
Page  12
(b)
a revolving fund is established and maintained by the Conselho do Suco in 
the Project Sub-districts in accordance with procedures agreed with the Trustee and 
set forth in the Project Manual; and 
(c)
Credits are repaid into the respective Conselho do Suco account 
established for such revolving funds in the respective Conselho do Posto.
6.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the relevant 
Project Management Sub-Unit:
(a)
cause each Conselho do Suco and Borrowers to carry out the Sub-projects 
selected in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Schedule in accordance with the 
Project Manual and the respective Sub-project agreements;
(b)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made 
available to the Sub-district facilitators and the District technical specialists and 
applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(c)
periodically update the Project Manual, if needed, in agreement with the 
Trustee.
7.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project 
Management Sub-Unit to ensure that:
(a)
each Sub-project is reviewed by the Sub-district facilitator upon 
completion and that a certificate of Sub-project completion shall be issued by the 
District technical specialist upon a finding of satisfactory Sub-project completion in 
accordance with the Project Manual and approved designs; and
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure under Credits, the Conselho do Posto shall recover 
the amounts disbursed under the respective Sub-Grant or Credit.
8.
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before 
carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make 
available to such villagers, compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Trustee 
for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with 
the provisions of said plan.
9.
The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project:
(a)
prepare a Cultural Heritage Support Manual for the implementation of Part 
B.2 of Project and provide such Manual to the Trustee for approval;
(b)
thereafter, issue the Manual and periodically update such Manual as may 
be necessary.
10.
The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a)
prepare a Civil Society Support Manual for the implementation of Part C 
of Project and provide such Manual to the Trustee for approval;
(b)
thereafter, issue the Manual and periodically update such Manual as may 
be necessary.
Page  13
11.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(b)
cause the Project Management Unit to prepare, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reports on the implementation of 
the Project covering the preceding six months, not later than March 31 and September 
30 in each year, starting September 30, 2000, and until the completion of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
SCHEDULE 6
General Conditions
ARTICLE I
Application to Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Section 1.01. Application of the General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and 
conditions applicable to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Definitions; Headings
Section 2.01. Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
1.
"Association" means the International Development Association.
2.
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
3.
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement after 
which the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
4.
"Currency of a country" means the coin or currency which is legal tender for the 
payment of public and private debts in that country.
5.
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United States of 
America.
6.
"External debt" means any debt which is or may become payable other than in the 
currency of the country which is the recipient of the Grant.
7.
"Grant" means the Grant provided for in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
8.
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
9.
"Project" means the project or program for which the Grant is credited, as 
described in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and as the description thereof may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Trustee.
10.
"Recipient" means East Timor and the United Nations Transitional Administration 
in East Timor.
Page  14
11.
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in 
effect at the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or thereafter imposed.
12.
"Trustee" means the International Development Association acting as trustee of 
the Trust Fund.
13.
"Trust Fund Grant Agreement" means the particular Trust Fund Grant Agreement to 
which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time. Trust Fund Grant Agreement includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
Section 2.02. References
References in these General Conditions to Articles or Sections are to Articles 
or Sections of these General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Headings
The headings of the Articles and Sections are inserted for convenience of 
reference only and are not a part of these General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Grant Account
Section 3.01. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and 
in these General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Currency Provisions
Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Trustee shall from time 
to time reasonably select.
Section 4.05. Valuation of Currencies
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall 
be as reasonably determined by the Trustee.
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Grant
Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Trustee shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Trustee and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories, except East Timor; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Trustee, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 5.02. Special Commitment by the Trustee
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Trustee, the Trustee may enter into special 
commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in respect of 
Page  15
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant notwithstanding any 
subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Trustee or the Recipient.
Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Trustee to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02, 
the Recipient shall deliver to the Trustee a written application in such form, and 
containing such statements and agreements, as the Trustee shall reasonably request. 
Applications for withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant to this 
Article, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 5.04. Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, if the Trustee 
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or added thereto by amendment 
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that 
category, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Trustee are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 5.05. Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee evidence of the authority of the 
person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the authenticated 
specimen signature of any such person.
Section 5.06. Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee such documents and other evidence in 
support of the application as the Trustee shall reasonably request, whether before or 
after the Trustee shall have permitted any withdrawal requested in the application.
Section 5.07. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Trustee that the Recipient is entitled 
to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified in the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Trustee that no proceeds of the Grant shall be withdrawn 
on account of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient 
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply 
thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or increases, the Trustee 
may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal 
set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Trustee.
Section 5.09. Payment by the Trustee
The Trustee shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Recipient
Page  16
The Recipient may, by notice to the Trustee, cancel any amount of the Grant 
which the Recipient shall not have withdrawn, except that the Recipient may not so 
cancel any amount of the Grant in respect of which the Trustee shall have entered into 
a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02.
Section 6.02. Suspension by the Trustee
If any of the following events shall have occurred and be continuing, the 
Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of any amount due to the 
Trustee: (i) under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, or (ii) under any other Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement between the Recipient and the Trustee.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(c)
The Trustee or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any grant agreement with the Trustee 
or with the Bank because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(e)
After the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and prior to the 
Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Trustee to 
suspend the Recipient's right to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement had been effective on the date such event occurred.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to 
be relied upon by the Trustee in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any 
material respect.
(g)
The Recipient or any Project implementation entity shall, without the 
consent of the Trustee, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of 
its obligations arising under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly 
or in part out of the proceeds of the Grant, except with respect to transactions in 
the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the Trustee, (A) do not 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project, or the ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its 
obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and 
adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Project implementation 
entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the same 
legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(j)
In the opinion of the Trustee, the legal character, ownership or control 
of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing as of the 
date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect: (i) 
the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of 
the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, or to achieve the objectives 
of the Project.
(k)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section shall have occurred.
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall 
Page  17
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or 
events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the Trustee 
shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has been restored 
in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Trustee.
If: (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the Trustee determines, after consultation 
with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (c) at any time, 
the Trustee determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Trustee to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (d) at 
any time, the Trustee determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount 
of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant Account, the Trustee may, by 
notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Grant shall 
be cancelled.
Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or 
Suspension by the Trustee
No cancellation or suspension by the Trustee shall apply to amounts subject to 
any special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 except as 
expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 6.05. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically 
provided in this Article.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
Section 7.01. Taxes
(a)
The principal of, and other charges on, the Grant shall be paid without 
deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient.
(b)
The Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and any other agreement to which these 
General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration 
thereof.
ARTICLE VIII
Cooperation and Information; Financial and
Economic Data; Project Implementation
Section 8.01. Cooperation and Information
(a)
The Recipient and the Trustee shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the Trustee 
shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of 
the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations 
Page  18
under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and furnish to the other 
party all such information related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above.
(b)
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Trustee to visit any part of its territories for purposes related to the Grant.
Section 8.02. Financial and Economic Data
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee all such information as the Trustee 
shall reasonably request with respect to financial and economic conditions in its 
territory including its balance of payments and its external debt as well as that of 
its political or administrative subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by, or 
operating for the account or benefit of the Recipient or any such subdivision, and any 
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, 
or similar functions, for the Recipient.
Section 8.03. Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 8.04. Use of Goods and Services
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all goods 
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the 
purposes of the Project.
Section 8.05. Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Trustee, promptly 
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and 
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications 
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
Section 8.06. Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Trustee's 
representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites included in the Project 
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and any plants, 
installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents 
relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient under the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Trustee at regular intervals all such 
information as the Trustee shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost 
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the 
proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Trustee may publish a description thereof, the name 
and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Trustee, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Trustee a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Trustee of their respective obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 8.07. Maintenance
Page  19
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and, promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 8.08. Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall take, or cause to be taken, all such action as shall be 
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as 
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Trustee, 
promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Trustee that such land and 
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IX
Enforceability of Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 9.01. Enforceability
The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Trustee under the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. 
Neither the Recipient nor the Trustee shall be entitled in any proceeding under this 
Article to assert any claim that any provision of these General Conditions or the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the 
Articles of Agreement of the Trustee or any document or instrument constituting the 
Trust Fund in East Timor.
Section 9.02. Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy 
accruing to either party under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement upon any default shall 
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an 
acquiescence in such default.  No action of such party in respect of any default, or 
any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or 
remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 9.03. Arbitration
(a)
Any controversy between the parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and 
any claim by either such party against the other arising under the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Trustee and the Recipient.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Trustee; a second arbitrator shall 
be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called 
the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not 
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice. If either of the 
parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the 
Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, 
die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same 
manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such 
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding.  Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire.  Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
Page  20
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure.  All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.  Each party shall 
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Each party shall defray its own expenses in the 
arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between 
and borne equally by the parties. Any question concerning the division of the costs of 
the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined 
by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement or of any claims by either party against the other party 
arising thereunder.
(k)
The Trustee shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Recipient 
upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to pursue 
any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except as 
such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award 
shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the 
Trustee, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of the award 
against the Trustee.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 11.01. The 
parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the 
service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE X
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 10.01. Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be in writing. Except as otherwise provided in 
Section 10.03, such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made 
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to 
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's 
address specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.
Section 10.02. Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee sufficient evidence of the authority 
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any action or 
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Recipient 
under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 10.03. Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Page  21
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement on behalf of the 
Recipient may be taken or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated 
in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person 
thereunto authorized in writing by such representative.  Any modification or 
amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement may be agreed to on 
behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf of the Recipient by 
the representative so designated or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative, provided that, in the opinion of such representative, such 
modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. The Trustee may accept the execution by such representative or other person 
of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and 
will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 10.04. Execution in Counterparts
The Trust Fund Grant Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the TFET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the TFET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the TFET Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the TFET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the TFET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  22
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the TFET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the TFET Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the TFET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the TFET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the TFET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the TFET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
