 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14842

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 11/18/2015

               Country: Lao People's Democratic Republic
             Project ID: P120909                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Lao Pdr Upland Food      Project Costs (US$M):                         14.60               14.65
                         Security Improvement
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                     Loan/Credit (US$M):                         10.00               10.07
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural    Cofinancing (US$M):                          4.41                4.58
                         Development
           Cofinanciers: EU's Food Crisis Rapid       Board Approval Date :                                04/27/2010
                         Response Facility                    Closing Date:             12/31/2014         12/31/2014
                         Trust Fund
          Sector(s):     Crops (52%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (39%); Public administration-
                         Agriculture; fishing and forestry (9%)
          Theme(s):      Global food crisis response (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Hassan Wally              Ridley Nelson          Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 According to the Project Paper (p. 7), the Financing Agreement (p. 5) and the European Union Food Crisis Rapid
Response Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (p. 4) the Project Development Objective (PDO) was to:

"(a) contribute to improved food security of rural households in selected poor villages in upland areas in the Project
Provinces by demonstrating and implementing improved rice-based farming systems, and (b) address recovery needs
of cyclone-affected households in the Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu provinces."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  1. Support to Conservation Agriculture Stations and Seed Multiplication Centers (Appraisal cost: US$2.03 million,
Actual cost: US$ 2.03 million). This component would: (i) support improvements to soil fertility by using conservation
agriculture based approaches; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of public sector to produce high quality crop and forage
seed varieties, in collaboration with farmers. The component would build on the experiences gained from past and
ongoing donor funded projects to improve and extend the network of active upland seed multiplication stations in the
Northern provinces. It would also support rice multiplication and research centers to produce and store high quality
rice and legume seed which are demanded by farmers, as well as supporting the maintenance of the existing seed
bank for upland rice varieties. Existing small Conservation Agriculture Stations in Luang Namtha and Xiengkhouang
would be strengthened to expand seed production and outreach. New small storage and demonstration stations would
be established in Houaphan, Savannakhet and Xekong. The funds would be provided for the rehabilitation of center
station infrastructure, upgrading laboratory equipment, training and capacity building, and for the incremental
operating costs.
2. Support to Improved Farm Systems for Food Security (Appraisal cost: US$3.33 million, Actual cost: US$3.16
million). This component would provide food security support to farmers in upland areas of five provinces over four
years through improvements to upland rice-based farming systems. It would also support recovery related to losses
and damages sustained by farming systems in three cyclone-affected provinces with emergency inputs and recovery
assistance provided during the first two years of project effectiveness. It included two sub-components:
       (a) Support to Farmers Livelihood Groups and On -Farm Demonstrations (Appraisal cost US$1.92 million,
      Actual cost: US$1.95 million). This sub-component would support: (i) demonstration of the benefits for
      smallholder farmers of using improved inputs and cropping systems; (ii) establishment of village level farmer
      seed production and multiplication groups, in coordination with the seed multiplication centers in three northern
      provinces (Luang Namtha, Houaphan and Xiengkhouang); and (iii) capacity building of farmer organizations at
      village and Kwn Banh level. In Savannakhet and Xekong, the project would support district level demonstrations
      of improved practices, participatory rice variety selection and seed multiplication. Support would be provided for
      small input packages of seed and fertilizer, goods, technical assistance and farmer training, and related
      incremental operating costs.
      (b) Agricultural Assistance for Cyclone Recovery (Appraisal cost US$1.41 million, Actual cost: US$1.21 million).
      This sub-component would respond to immediate needs for seeds and agricultural inputs for rural households,
      including livestock, to recover losses for livelihoods suffered during cyclone Ketsana through both emergency
      assistance and improved resilience of agriculture to natural disasters. The target beneficiaries of this
      sub-component comprise the most vulnerable and severely impacted communities in Xekong, Saravane and
      Attapeu Provinces. The emergency assistance activities could finance expenditures made by the Ministry of
      Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural inputs and infrastructure rehabilitation during the dry season of 2009 to
      2010 subject to determination of eligibility for retroactive financing by the World Bank. These expenses would
      cover seeds (rice, sweet corn, vegetables), fertilizers, community led rehabilitation of minor irrigation works,
      disease vaccination of livestock and the costs of coordination and oversight by agencies involved. The
      sub-component would provide inputs for wet season rice farming seasons. The wet season inputs would be
      directed to upland rice crop planting (seed) and lowland rice enhancement (fertilizer), small animal replacement
      and vaccination, and limited agricultural tools.
3. Support for Rural Infrastructure Improvement and Community -led Recovery (Appraisal cost: US$7.92 million,
Actual cost: US$7.93 million). It includes two sub-components:

     (a) Rural Infrastructure for Improved Agricultural Livelihoods (Appraisal cost US$3.73 million, Actual cost:
     US$4.09 million). The target beneficiaries would be villages in the 47 poorest districts of the country covered by
     the Poverty Reduction Fund mandate. The districts would be selected from proposed northern project provinces
     (Xiengkhouang, Houaphan and Luang Namtha plus Savannakhet and Xekong in the south).The sub-component
     would provide sub-grants and technical assistance for improving small community infrastructure (i.e. irrigation
     improvement, road and track improvement, livestock fencing and handling facilities, biogas facilities and grain
     storage, etc.), which is geared towards the improvement of agricultural livelihoods and food security, to be
     delivered through established participatory process by the PRF and ensuring gender and ethnic group inclusion.
     The work would be implemented with the assistance of agricultural engineering technical assistance (at national,
     provincial and district levels), which builds on existing civil engineering technical assistance already in place
     under the Poverty Reduction Fund structures.
     (b) Community-Led Recovery (Appraisal cost US$4.19 million, Actual cost: US$3.84 million). The
     sub-component would support community-led recovery through the restoration of rural infrastructure, including
     rehabilitation and repairs of damaged irrigation systems, in three cyclone affected districts of Saravane, Xekong
     and Attapeu Provinces. According to the Ketsana Post-Disaster Damages, Losses and Needs Assessment
     (PDNA) conducted during October to November 2009, these provinces have sustained the most severe damage.
     Assistance for the restoration of rural infrastructure in Ketsana-affected districts would be delivered by PRF
     adapting their current community driven development (CDD) methodology during detailed project design to
     ensure expedience required for an emergency response. The component would finance sub-grants and technical
     assistance for improving and rehabilitating small community infrastructure which has been damaged by Cyclone
     Ketsana.
4. Project Coordination and Management (Appraisal cost: US$1.31 million, Actual cost: US$1.53 million). This
component would be under the responsibility of Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's Department of Planning (DOP)
and would provide financing for the activities related to the overall coordination of the project, including technical
assistance and incremental operating expenditures to support procurement, financial management, management of
safeguards issues, internal and external auditing and the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
specifically designed for the project.

Revised components: There were no new components, but several revisions of Component 1 and Component 2 were
introduced during implementation:
   Support to the Department of Agriculture (DOA) to strengthen its capacity for seed quality control . Although not
     originally envisaged, it became clear early during the project implementation that there was a need to ensure the
     quality of seed produced by seed stations and farmer groups under the project in order to develop farmers trust in
     the value of good seed. This support to DOA was approved through an amendment to the IDA Financing
     Agreement dated June 7, 2013. The project supported: (i) operationalization of the new Rice Seed Quality
     Management Regulations and Guidelines for Rice Seeds Inspection; (ii) the upgrade of DOA’s main seed control
     laboratories; (iii) the training of its staff; and (iv) implementation of a pilot program to implement the new seed
     quality control arrangements in two project provinces.
    Establishment of Gene Bank in Naphok Research Center . Originally, the project's support for the rehabilitation of
     the rice Gene Bank at Naphok research center was limited to the construction of a new building, as it was
     expected that the necessary equipment would be financed from other sources. However, this other financing did
     not materialize and the GOL requested the World Bank to finance under this project the minimum equipment
     necessary to make the Gene Bank fully functional. The proposed change would enable Lao PDR to ensure the
     preservation and storage of more than 13,000 traditional and improved varieties of Lao rice and to enhance food
     security through improved protection of the country’s rice gene diversity.

Dropped activities:
  The preparation of a medium -term plan to enhance the resilience of rural communities to shocks . This activity,
    originally to be funded under sub-component 2b, was dropped at the request of the Ministry of Agriculture and
    Forestry as similar initiatives were on-going under the coordination of the National Disaster Prevention and
    Control Committee established under the Prime Minister's Office.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. Total project cost at appraisal was expected to be US$14.60 million (Project Paper, Annex 3). The ICR
(Annex 1) reported that the actual project cost was US$14.65 million. The operations portal shows that the total
disbursed amount was US$14.69 million.

Financing. The Project was financed through an IDA Grant under the Global Food Crisis Response Program worth
US$10.0 million; and the EU Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund cofinanced the project through a Grant
worth US$4.41 million. Actual amounts disbursed were US$10.07 million and US$4.58 million for IDA and EU Grants,
respectively.

Borrower Contribution . The project was fully financed through an IDA Grant and cofinanced through an EU Grant. No
borrower counterpart funding was expected.

Dates. The project closed on time. It was restructured twice, both were Level 2. The first was on June 6, 2011 to
reallocate the EU Grant to the activities initially assigned for financing by the IDA Grant; and the second was on June
7, 2013 to amend the Financial Agreement to permit financing of seed quality control activities and completion of the
Gene bank, and to reallocate funds between categories. The Mid-Term Review was conducted on May 14, 2012, the
originally planned date.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal objectives were highly relevant to the country's emergency needs and development goals of the
agriculture sector. The project aimed to address an emergency situation and to support the restoration of food security
and rural infrastructures in three southern districts impacted by cyclone Ketsana in 2009. It also aimed to address food
insecurity in the Lao PDR uplands which resulted from low crop productivity, isolation from services and inadequate
agricultural infrastructure, and was exacerbated by the food and global economic crisis in 2008/2009. Objectives were
in line with the 2009 Country Assistance Strategy (2009-12), which focused on supporting the Government's National
Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy and Agricultural Strategy. Objectives were also in line with the
Government's strategy for the agriculture sector which among other things called for improving the availability and
quality of seed varieties; and increasing agricultural productivity by improving the use of new technology.

At project completion, objectives continued to be highly relevant to the country conditions and to the development
goals of the agriculture sector. While the global food crisis had subsided, the country remained prone to frequent
climate disasters. The project objectives continued to be in agreement with the Government's National Growth and
Poverty Eradication Strategy which called among other things for the eradication of rural poverty through "improving
the well-being of the people through greater food security (p. 1)."

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
Design included a clear statement of objectives that specified the target crop, project areas, beneficiaries and the kind
of actions the project would support. To achieve the stated objectives, the project supported improving the national
capacity to sustainably produce larger quantities of high quality rice seeds according to demand. The project also
promoted using improved seeds and new cropping systems among smallholders in upland areas. It would also
provide sub-grants and technical assistance for improving small community infrastructure. These activities were
expected to improve rice productivity and improve food security. The project aimed to respond to the immediate needs
of rural households in cyclone impacted areas through the provision of direct assistance (seeds and agricultural
inputs) to recover losses for livelihoods suffered as a result of cyclone Ketsana. The Results framework did not
provide clear links between inputs, outputs and intended outcomes. The Project Paper (p. 7-12) reported a brief
description of components and activities supported by the project.

There were two design shortcomings, first, the rehabilitation of rice seed stations required more preparation time to
better understand the underlying issues. The emergency nature of this project allowed limited time for thorough
technical assessment of investment needs and related operational requirements of seed stations. Design also did not
include any activities to strengthen the national capacity for seed quality control, although this was latter corrected
during implementation. Second, the project attempted to address the supply side of rice seeds without strategic
analysis of the demand side and the existing capacity constraints. The project's approach to establish seed
multiplication groups might not have been the best choice given the nature of project areas in the uplands where
subsistence farming is practiced combined with limited demand for R3 seeds among local rice farmers. Also, the
improved rice varieties promoted by the project turned out not to be the best choice. These varieties were more
suitable to the lowland plains, and are more sensitive to cold weather conditions that occur at higher altitudes in
uplands. In addition, these lowland varieties tend to ripen earlier which makes the crop vulnerable to pests (birds,
rodents). Moreover, upland farmers tend to prefer local varieties because of their eating characteristics (bigger grain
size, aromatic taste, ICR, para. 28). Finally, these varieties perform best with adequate amounts of fertilizers,
however, there was little interest among upland farmers to increase fertilizer use. Therefore, in remote areas with high
fertilizer prices and low rice prices, the use of traditional seed varieties actually makes more economic and social
sense (ICR, Annex 3, para 6). In a further communication, the project team explained that at the time of project
preparation there was no published research to guide the project with regards to the choice of rice varieties for the
upland agro ecological region. The team explained that it was a trial and error and learning by doing.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The PDO includes two sub-objectives:

(a) contribute to improved food security of rural households in selected poor villages in upland areas in the Project
Provinces by demonstrating and implementing improved rice-based farming systems. Substantial.
Outputs
   By project completion the annual production volume of quality rice seed (R1 and R2 seed) reached 594 tons
     compared to a target of 574 tons and a baseline of 456 tons.
   By project completion 387 villages were benefiting from agriculture-related community subprojects delivered
     through Poverty Reduction Fund participatory approaches, the ICR notes that no original target was specified.
   By project completion rice production of participating farmers in seed producer groups increased by 19.2%
     compared to a target of 15%.The paddy production of the surveyed seed farms increased from 102.3 tons in
     2010 to 122.0 tons in 2014. The increase in yield was 16% over baseline (ICR, p. viii).
   By project completion 4,000 farmers were reached by extension activities, of which 28% adopted improved
     techniques compared to a target of 2,000 farmers and 25% adoption rate.
   By project completion 1,216 ha were provided with improved irrigation and drainage services (ICR, p. ix). The
     target value was not specified at appraisal as this is a core indicator added during project implementation.
   By project completion 8 new technologies were demonstrated in project areas including: improved rice varieties,
     purification of traditional rice seeds, introduction of upland rice variety, fertilizer application, use of local variety,
     crop rotation system and inter cropping system (ICR, p. ix).The target value was not specified at appraisal as this
     was a core indicator added during project implementation.
   By project completion 4 collaborative research/extension sub-projects completed. These included: (i) seed
     broadcasting; (ii) seed quality control; (iii) coordination of the R1 and R2 seed production with the demand for R3
     seeds; and (iv) conservation agriculture technologies, including intercropping of upland rice with muang beans
     and stylo (fodder crop) and rotation system technology (ICR, p. ix).
   The project supported the development of 5 new upland rice varieties to be made available to farmers, compared
     to the baseline target of 3 varieties. Also, a new National Seed Gene Bank was built and equipped and was
     operational by project completion.
   The project supported strengthening the capacity of the Department of Agriculture to carry out seed quality
     control through upgrading its main seed control laboratories; training its staff; and a pilot program to implement
     the new seed quality control arrangements in two provinces.
Outcome
The project provided support to participating rice farmers including improved rice seeds, extension and demonstration
of new technologies, and improving irrigation and drainage. According to a 2014 benchmark survey study, the
weighted-average rice yield in beneficiary farmer groups increased by 21%(3.98 tons/ha) compared to the baseline
(3.28 tons/ha) which is slightly higher than the project's end target of 20% (3.94 tons/ha). Also, during the wet season
of 2014 paddy yields of project farmers were about 20% higher than yields of non-project farmers in the same villages
(thus eliminating the impact of different agro-climatic conditions between different years and villages). By beneficiary
group, the average rice yield increased by 25% for 74 seed farmers included in the 2014 survey and by 18% percent
for 140 surveyed extension farmers. The project also contributed to improving food security in project areas. Results
from the 2014 benchmark survey showed that by project completion, 26% of extension farmers experienced some rice
shortage during the year compared to 32% for non-particpating farmers.

The support to conservation agriculture fell short of its objective. The aim was to demonstrate technologies but the
adaptive research program had not been prepared and, initially, there were no staff available to carry it out and to
monitor it. There were few of the proposed demonstrations until very late in the project, in 2014. By 2014 there was
some achievement but it appears to have been too little too late.

Overall, the project met its target to increase rice yield by 20% over the baseline and improvement in rice yields
contributed to better food security of poor rural households in upland communities of project provinces. Also, the
establishment of the National Seed and Gene Bank would enable Laos PDR to conserve its rice biodiversity through
long-term storage of more than 13,000 traditional rice varieties.

(b) address recovery needs of cyclone-affected households in the Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu provinces.
Substantial.
Outputs
   By project completion 179 km of rural roads were constructed and 279 km were rehabilitated (ICR, p. ix).This
     core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the target value was not specified at
     appraisal.
   The project financed sub-projects included 41 irrigation sub-projects, 23 public work sub-projects, 17 water
     supply sub-projects as well as 8 health sub-projects and 3 education sub-projects. The 41 irrigation sub-projects
     rehabilitated irrigation perimeters damaged by Ketsana, increasing the irrigated area by 1,017 ha (3,749 ha after
     rehabilitation against 2,732 ha before) and allowed 7,122 household to restore their production to pre-Ketsana
     levels.
   By project completion about 20,000 households in cyclone-affected areas received project support including
     11,628 households receiving farm inputs, 7,500 households benefitting from livestock vaccination, and 18,000
     households benefitting from infrastructure rehabilitation. The ICR (p. x) noted that "there was a degree of overlap
     (difficult to estimate precisely) between categories of beneficiaries."
Outcome
The project team estimated that a total of 42,000 households (no target set) were direct beneficiaries of the project
activities. Within a two year period following cyclone Ketsana, all households identified by the November 2009
Post-Disaster Needs Assessment received the necessary emergency assistance including: seeds, agricultural inputs
and small livestock. Sample checks at village level confirmed that inputs reached target beneficiaries. Also, all
damaged community infrastructure in 86 villages identified by the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment was rehabilitated
before the end of 2011.
The reported outputs/intermediate outcomes point to the success of the project in addressing recovery needs of
cyclone-affected households in impacted areas despite the absence of a PDO level indicator to assess the outcome of
the emergency activities supported by the project.

5. Efficiency:
 ex ante
The project aimed to partially improve the financial sustainability of seed production centers by encouraging higher
levels of cost recovery. Making seed production centers financially more sustainable required ensuring sufficient
volume of seed sales and the willingness of farmers to pay reasonable seed prices. The analysis was based on a total
of 25 ha to produce about 85 tons of R2 seed to meet ultimate upland requirements of about 7,000 tons. At the time of
appraisal, seed stations charged about US$590 per ton and required reinvestment after 15 to 20 years from donors.
At that price the FIRR (7%) was less than the discount rate (12%) and NPV was negative over a 15 year planning
horizon. At a price of US$700/ton, however, the FIRR was higher (28%) and the NPV per ha (US$2, 558) was
positive. When a price of US$700/ton was projected for seed to be used in R3 production, the R3 business was
attractive with an IRR of 49% and an NPV per ha (US$2,752). The analysis did not include estimates of financial or
economic analysis for community infrastructure.
ex post
No aggregate ex post ERR was attempted for the whole project. The project efficiency was assessed through: (i) the
speed and efficiency of emergency assistance as this was emergency project; (ii) cost effectiveness of community
infrastructure delivery; and (iii) other gains not realized by the date of project closure but having expected lasting
impacts.
  o For emergency assistance, the audit of activities under Component 2b indicated that most beneficiaries identified
     by the post-Ketsana Post Disaster Needs Assessment had received the required inputs.
  o For community infrastructure, the overall quality of irrigation sub-projects including design, quality of material or
   operation and maintenance, was found to be satisfactory or moderately satisfactory (11 out of 16 sub-projects,
   69%), however, the quality of pasture fencing sub-projects was less satisfactory largely because poor O&M
   arrangements. The Technical Audit indicated that for two thirds of the sub-projects in a sample of 16
   sub-projects, the cost was below that of the cost of similar projects in Lao PDR, while the remaining third had a
   higher cost due to being located in remote areas. The assessment of the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for 15
   irrigation projects showed that 11 sub-projects had a high FRR (above 20%) and 4 had negative FRRs (all
   concerning weir rehabilitation which had very high costs compared to the resulting irrigated area).
 o For longer term benefits, the establishment of the Gene Bank has enabled the country to ensure the preservation
   and storage of more than 13,000 traditional and improved varieties of rice and to enhance food security through
   improved protection of country’s rice gene diversity. Also, the strengthened capacity of MAF for seed quality
   control was expected to increase farmers' trust in the value of good seeds in the country.
 o Other benefits likely to have been achieved but not measured, and difficult to measure except over an extended
   period, would be better flood control as a result of weir rehabilitation.

As noted earlier, the project's approach to establish seed multiplication groups might not have been the best choice
given the nature of farming activities in the uplands where subsistence farming is practiced. Also, the improved rice
varieties promoted by the project were more suitable to the lowland plains. These varieties are more sensitive to cold
weather conditions that occur at higher altitudes in uplands. In addition, they tend to ripen earlier which makes the
crop vulnerable to pests (birds, rodents). Moreover, upland farmers tend to prefer local rice varieties because of their
eating characteristics (bigger grain size and aromatic taste, ICR, para. 28). Finally, lowland varieties perform best with
adequate amounts of fertilizers, however, there was little interest among upland farmers to increase fertilizer use
(ICR, Annex 3, para 6). Therefore, in remote areas with high fertilizer prices and low rice prices, the use of traditional
seed varieties might actually make economic sense (ICR, Annex 3, para 6).

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project closed on time, however, some activities such as extension and seeds multiplication suffered from
recurrent delays in the funding of operational costs of field activities. These delays were later rectified after
strengthening Financial Management capacity at district levels.

Efficiency is rated, on balance, substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high, while relevance of design was rated substantial, despite some
shortcomings. Efficacy of the first objective was rated substantial. The project met its target to increase rice yield by
20% over the baseline and improvements in rice yields were expected to contribute to better food security for poor
rural households in upland communities. Efficacy of the second objective was rated substantial. The project
successfully addressed recovery needs in cyclone-affected households. Efficiency was rated substantial.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The project aimed to achieve two objectives, the first was focused on improving food security of rural households in
selected poor villages in upland areas; and the second was concerned with providing emergency relief assistance to
the households impacted by cyclone Ketsana. Due to the emergency nature of the second objective, it was not
expected to continue beyond project completion. For the first objective, risk to development outcome is significant.
The project attempted to promote rice varieties that were not suitable for the upland areas. These varieties found little
demand from local rice farmers, although could be sold to meet other demands. Unless more suitable varieties are
introduced soon to upland areas, it is doubtful that the achievements of the project would be sustainable other than
perhaps some of the institutional linkages and skills established. The ICR (para 15) described the upland areas as a
"difficult farming environment" that, at this point, needs continued donor support to maintain the activities supported by
the project. Finally, there is a concern that the pasture fencing and other structures established under the project
could be undermined due to weak O&M arrangements.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The World Bank prepared the project as an emergency operation under OP/BP 8.0. It was in response to a
request from the Government for assistance after Cyclone Ketsana hit the south of the country on September 29,
2009.
   The project was processed in five months under the GFRP. The project objectives were in line with the
     Government priorities and the Bank's CAS at the time of preparation.
   The emergency components of the project were straight forward and consistent with recognized principles of
     post-disaster assistance. However, design of the other components suffered some shortcomings, the most
     notable was promoting rice varieties that were unsuitable to the upland region and overlooking the need to
     strengthen the national capacity to control the quality of seeds produced (although this was later addressed
     during implementation). Also, design was not based on thorough technical assessment of investment needs
     and related operational requirements of the targeted seed stations.
   Project design underestimated the difficulty of effectively coordinating between different implementing
     agencies. This initially impacted the provision of information on implementation progress for the M&E system.
     Design also underestimated the capacity at the decentralized level to prepare annual work programs and
     budgets.
   At the preparation stage, eight risks were identified, of which three were rated substantial (delays in
     procurement; fiduciary risks; and rice seeds and fertilizers not reaching intended beneficiaries); and four were
     rated moderate (ability of research stations to establish and maintain suitable farmer groups; possible misuse
     of inputs by poor beneficiary farmers; weak capacity to perform extension and farmer support activities; and
     the adequate delivery of community infrastructure); and one was rated low (the exclusion of ethnic minorities
     from project’s benefits). While mitigation measures were adequate for the identified risks, the risk of
     unsuitable rice varieties and limited demand by upland farmers for R3 seeds was not identified.
   M&E suffered from design weakness (see section 10a).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank team carried out eleven implementation/technical support missions over the 4.5 years of the project
period. The Bank team provided prompt corrective/supportive action to address any bottlenecks during
implementation. The TTL was based in the region and visited Lao PDR on a monthly basis to follow up with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on implementation issues. Supervision reports were candid and provided
"clear guidance for necessary corrective actions (ICR. para 56)." The World Bank provided support and technical
guidance on financial management and procurement. M&E design also received considerable attention to ensure
tracking progress against the PDO and key indicators. The World Bank worked with the National Coordination
office and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to restructure the project in June 2011 to accommodate the tight
disbursement deadline of the European Union Grant. This enabled the project to benefit from US$1.8 million of EU
funds which were reallocated to finance community-led recovery in Ketsana impacted areas under Component 3b.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government was supportive of the project. Although the Project Steering Committee (PSC) did not meet
regularly, it acted quickly when key issues were raised at its level (such as the need to improve coordination
between implementing agencies at the beginning of the project and to restructure the project). The Government
should have acted earlier to hire the international financial management consultant who was recruited in early
2011 (according to the Emergency Project Paper this should have been within 3 months of the effectiveness date).
   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). A National Coordination
Office (NCO) for managing the project was established and housed in the Department of Planning within MAF.
The NCO was well staffed and provided strong and focused guidance and support to the various implementing
agencies (ICR, para 43).
   A number of implementing agencies were involved in the project:
       o the Directorate of Livestock and Fisheries and the Poverty Reduction Fund implemented the emergency
          activities under Components 2b and 3b, respectively,
       o the Department of Agriculture implemented the seed quality control activities and the pilot field testing
          program,
       o the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute was responsible for defining the technical
          specifications of investments in seed stations and implementing conservation agriculture activities; and
       o the National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service implemented seed multiplication and extension
          activities at the central level in coordination with the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office/District
          Agriculture and Forestry Office at the field level.
   The NCO benefitted from the guidance of the Project Steering Committee to improve coordination among the
     project's implementing agencies.
   Establishing M&E activities faced a slow start, but M&E was fully operational by the end of the first year of
     implementation.
   Implementing agencies showed good implementation performance except the National Agriculture and
     Forestry Research Institute which experienced long delays in defining the technical specifications of
     investments in seed stations and demonstrated low interest in implementing conservation agriculture
     activities (ICR, para 60).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Results framework suffered from a number of shortcomings, most notable was the absence of an outcome
indicator to assess the post-Ketsana recovery efforts supported by the project. Also, the definition for one intermediate
outcome indicator was unclear and should have included more details (sample checks at village level confirm that
inputs reach target beneficiaries) while another indicator (the number of villages benefiting from agriculture-related
community sub-projects delivered through Poverty Reduction Fund participatory approaches) lacked an end target. In
addition, it was not clear in the Emergency Project Paper that the beneficiary farmer groups mentioned in the PDO
indicator referred only to members of the seed multiplication groups and farmers participating in extension activities
while excluding farmers in Ketsana-affected areas.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   According to the ICR (para 31) "the project’s M&E system was not fully operational at effectiveness." As
implementation progressed, the M&E system became more effective and the results framework was improved through
clarification of some indicators and the addition of core sector indicators. In total five core sector indicators were
added to the results framework.
   M&E benefitted from the inclusion of an officer who was responsible for maintaining the database, carrying out
      data analysis, and preparing quarterly progress reports.
   Data on the implementation progress was collected by the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute
      and the National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service staff at Provincial and District levels and by Poverty
      Reduction Fund’s existing M&E system.
   M&E data was collected every quarter and supplemented with a short questionnaire that was requested twice a
      year at harvest time from a random sample of (about 350) households. Questions focused on areas planted,
      yields, tracking seed usage, and adoption of improved agricultural practices.
   An impact evaluation was conducted with a baseline in 2011 and benchmark surveys in 2012, 2013 and 2014.


c. M&E Utilization:
   Despite a slow start, M&E data was collected and analyzed on timely basis. This produced detailed and useful
information that allowed management to plan and monitor implementation progress. Progress reports were also
submitted on time to the World Bank and according to the ICR (para 33) they were of high quality. M&E benefitted
from the 2011 baseline survey and the following three benchmark surveys which provided adequate data for
assessing the project's impact. M&E data collected by the project was also used by the National Coordination Office
to produce a detailed implementation completion report.

While M&E design suffered from shortcomings, implementation and utilization were both largely successful.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a category B under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. It also triggered two other
safeguard policies: Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The ICR (para 35)
reported that the project safeguard compliance was satisfactory.

Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). According to the ICR (para 44) "project financed activities did not cause
significant negative environmental or social impacts." The project promoted soil fertility through bio-compost
production and application. It also attempted to reduce slash and burn activities. The ICR (para 35) reported that
"ethnic preferences and concerns were taken into account in the planning and implementing the project
activities."
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
The project promoted Integrated Pest Management practices and did not procure any pesticides.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). There were no incidences of involuntary resettlement (ICR, para 35).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . At the beginning of the project financial management suffered from delays in recruiting staff,
for example, the international financial management consultant was recruited in early 2011 (according to the
Emergency Project Paper this should have been within 3 months of the effectiveness date). Also, project accounts
and Internal Financial Reports had to be produced manually because the computerized accounting system was not
operational until mid-2011. According to the ICR (para 36) "the project met all Financial Management covenants of the
Financing Agreement, and Financial Management arrangements complied with the World Bank’s requirements per
OP/BP 10.02." Internal Financial Reports and Audits were submitted on time and annual external audits were
unqualified. Also, auditors' recommendations were promptly addressed. To pilot Government decentralization policy,
six district accounts were operational by 2013 to facilitate the flow of funds for the implementation of extension and
seed multiplication activities. The success of the pilot prompted the Government to upscale this arrangement to a
national level.

Procurement. The procurement plan was regularly updated. There were only two minor procurement issues, the first
was regarding the procurement of small animals under component 2b and the second was regarding the eligibility of
some expenditures claimed by the Department of Irrigation for work related to some irrigation rehabilitation
sub-projects under Component 3b. According to the ICR (para 46) both issues were resolved satisfactorily. Other than
this "there were no major issues regarding compliance with procurement policy and guidelines."

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Satisfactory              Satisfactory
         Risk to Development Moderate                  Significant            Suitable rice varieties need to be
                      Outcome:                                                  introduced to upland areas to ensure
                                                                                the sustainability of the project's
                                                                                outcomes. Some concerns on weak
                                                                                O&M arrangements.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following two lesson are emphasized with some adaptation of language:

    Emergency projects should primarily focus on the immediate emergency needs . An emergency project can be
     helpful to kick start associated longer-term programs, however, care should be taken to avoid including
     activities which require significantly more time to design adequately and achieve their development objectives,
     and which may be negatively affected by broader structural institutional and policy issues.
    Demand-side assessments among potential beneficiary farming households at the project design stage are
     an important tool to better understand the acceptability of proposed agricultural technologies , particularly
     seeds and fertilizer . This would be particularly important in situations where there is limited household cash to
     purchase inputs, options to rotate cropping to new land (slash and burn), and likely strong food preferences. In
     this case, there was limited knowledge of what farmers or households in the proposed beneficiary areas had
     expressed a need for in terms of technologies or subsistence commodities.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided thorough yet concise coverage of project activities. It reported candidly on implementation
challenges and design shortcomings. It included a logical evidence based discussion of outcomes. It also included
three lessons that reflected the project's experience, one of these could be generalized while the other two were more
specific to the project. However, the discussion of outcomes was brief and, for example, limited information was
provided in the main text on the weakness in Conservation Agriculture and the reasons for that weakness.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
