                                   Document of
                                 the World Bank


                                                       Report No: ICR00003353

              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDAH5610 and TF-71341)



                                  ON A GRANT
                        UNDER THE CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW
     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.60 MILLION (USD 10.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                  AND A GRANT
            UNDER THE EUROPEAN UNION FOOD CRISIS RESPOND FUND
    IN THE AMOUNT OF EUROS 3.36 MILLION (USD 4.41 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                     TO THE


                        LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC


                                     FOR A


              LAO UPLAND FOOD SECURITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                   May 28, 2015



Agriculture Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region




                                        i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2015)
                         Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                             US$ = Kip 8,000
                            US$ = Euro 0.8945
                            US$ = SDR 0.7125


                              FISCAL YEAR
                          October 1 - September 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CA       Conservation Agriculture
CIAT     Centro Internationale Agriculture Tropicale
CIRAD    International Center for Research in Agricultural Development
DAFO     District Agriculture and Forestry Office
DOA      Department of Agriculture
DOI      Department of Irrigation
DOP      Department of Planning
EPP      Emergency Project Paper
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU       European Union
FM       Financial Management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFRP     Global Food Crisis Response Program
GOL      Government of Lao PDR
Ha       Hectare
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFR      Interim Financial Report
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
LUFSIP   Lao Upland Food Security Improvement Project
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFES    National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service
NAFReC   Northern Agriculture and Forestry Research Center (Luang Prabang)
NAFRI    National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NGPES    National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
OP       Operational Policy
PAFO     Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office
                                     ii
PDNA     Post-Disaster Needs Assessment
PDO      Project Development Objective
PRF      Poverty Reduction Fund
RPIP     Rice Productivity Improvement Project
SAFReC   State Agriculture and Forestry Research Center (Champassak)
$        United States Dollar




         Vice President:                     Axel van Trotsenburg
         Country Director:                   Ulrich Zachau
         Country Manager:                    Sally Burningham
         Senior GP Director:                 Juergen Voegele
         Practice Manager:                   Nathan Belete
         Project Task Team Leader:           Paavo Eliste
         ICR Team Leader:                    Sergiy Zorya




                                     iii
                                     LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                      LAO UPLAND FOOD SECURITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




Data Sheet ....................................................................................................................................... v 
A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................................... v 
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................... v 
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................................... v 
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................... vi 
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................. vi 
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................... vii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................................... x 
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................ xi 
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................................. xi 
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................ 1 
2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................................... 6 
3.        Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................... 12 
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................. 15 
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................. 16 
6.        Lessons Learned................................................................................................................. 18 
7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.................... 18 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 20 
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ................................................................................................. 21 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 36 
Annex 4. World Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................. 40 
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 42 
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................................... 45 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 47 
The Map of the Project Areas ....................................................................................................... 48 




                                                                        iv
Data Sheet


A. Basic Information

                                                                      Lao PDR Upland Food
                      Lao People's
Country:                                    Project Name:             Security Improvement
                      Democratic Republic
                                                                      Project
Project ID:          P120909                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-H5610,TF-97058
ICR Date:            02/19/2015              ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  ERL                     Borrower:                Lao PDR
Original Total
                     XDR 6.60M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 6.60M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 6.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: European Union



B. Key Dates

                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:      11/18/2009    Effectiveness:                           06/04/2010
                                                                            06/06/2011
Appraisal:                         Restructuring(s):
                                                                            06/07/2013
Approval:            04/27/2010    Mid-term Review:     05/13/2012          05/14/2012
                                   Closing:             12/31/2014          12/31/2014



C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Moderate
Bank Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Satisfactory




                                            v
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately SatisfactoryGovernment:       Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                    Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time             Yes                                        None
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                                Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                           25               25
Crops                                                         25               25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector              50               50
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                    100             100



E. Bank Staff

       Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Axel van Trotsenburg             James W. Adams
Country Director:         Ulrich Zachau                    Annette Dixon

                                               vi
Practice
                           Nathan M. Belete                  Patchamuthu Illangovan
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Paavo Eliste                      Paavo Eliste
ICR Team Leader:           Sergiy Zorya
ICR Primary Author:        Sergiy Zorya
                           Jean-Paul Chausse

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to: (a) contribute to improved food security of rural households in selected poor
villages in upland areas in the Project Provinces by demonstrating and implementing improved
rice-based farming systems, and (b) address recovery needs of cyclone-affected households in the
Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu provinces.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
n/a
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)        Values       Target Years
                  Increase in rice yields in beneficiary farmer groups by twenty percent (20%)
Indicator 1 :
                  compared to the baseline
Value
quantitative or        3.28 tons/ha          3.94 tons/ha                        3.98 tons/ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved          11/30/2011             12/31/2014                          01/09/2015
Comments
                Achieved. The weighted-average yield increase for seed and extension farmers
(incl. %
                benefited from the project was 21 percent, above the 20 percent’s end target.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
      Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
                  Production of incremental annual volume of quality seed (R1 and R2 seed) of
Indicator 1 :
                  at least 120 tons from all participating centers supported under the project
Value
                          456 tons             576 tons                           594 tons
(quantitative

                                               vii
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            11/30/2011             12/31/2014                           01/09/2015
Comments          Achieved. The actual value exceeds the end target by 15 percent. The actual
(incl. %          increase was 138 tons compared to the planned 120 tons, i.e. and incremental annual
achievement)      production of 36 tons/year against the target of 30 tons/year.
Indicator 2 :     Sample checks at village level confirm that inputs reach target beneficiaries
Value
                     No inputs reaching       Inputs reached                      Inputs reached
(quantitative
                       beneficiaries           beneficiaries                       beneficiaries
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/27/2010                12/31/2013                        01/09/2015
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
                  Number of villages benefiting from agriculture-related community sub-
Indicator 3 :
                  projects delivered through PRF participatory approaches
Value
(quantitative                 0               Not specified                          387
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/27/2010                                                    01/09/2015
Comments
                This includes 301 villages benefiting from Component 3a and 86 villages benefiting
(incl. %
                from Component 3b. There was no original target for this indicator.
achievement)
                MAF project management team operational and staffed with experienced
Indicator 4 :
                fiduciary and technical specialists
Value                                        Project team in
                                                                            Project team in place
(quantitative    Project team not in place      place and
                                                                               and operational
or Qualitative)                                operational
Date achieved           04/27/2010             12/31/2014                        01/09/2015
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Rice production of participating farmers in seed producer groups increase by
Indicator 5 :
                at least fifteen (15%) compared to baseline
Value
(quantitative                 0                   15%                               19.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/27/2014             12/31/2014                        01/09/2015
Comments        Achieved. The actual value exceeds the end target value by 4 percentage points.
(incl. %        The paddy production of the surveyed seed farms increased from 102.3 tons in 2010
achievement) to 122.0 tons in 2014. The increase in yield was 16 percent over baseline.
                At least 2000 farmers reached by extension activities, of which 25% adopt
Indicator 6 :
                improved techniques at project end
Value                                        2,000 farmers                      4,000 farmers
                              0
(quantitative                                25% adoption                       28% adoption

                                                viii
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/27/2010              12/31/2014                            01/09/2015
                  Achieved. During the last year of the project 2,991 farmers were directly involved
Comments          in demonstration activities in 425 villages of the 10 target districts. Cumulatively,
(incl. %          about 4,000 farmers were directly involved in extension activities during the project
achievement)      period. The weighted-average adoption rate for extended technologies was 28
                  percent.
Indicator 7 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage services - Improved
Value
(quantitative                  0                Not specified                             1,216
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             04/27/2010                                             01/09/2015
Comments          This core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the
(incl. %          target value was not specified at appraisal. The improved area includes 145 ha
achievement)      gained under Component 3a and 1,071 ha under Component 3b.
Indicator 8 :     Technologies demonstrated in the project areas
Value
(quantitative                  0                Not specified                               8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             04/27/2010                                                    01/09/2015
                  This core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the
Comments          target value was not specified at appraisal. The technologies were: improved rice
(incl. %          varieties, purification of traditional rice seeds, introduction of upland rice variety,
achievement)      SRI, fertilizer application, use of local variety, crop rotation system and inter
                  cropping system.
Indicator 9 :     Collaborative research/extension sub-projects completed
Value
(quantitative                  0                Not specified                               4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/27/2010                                                 01/09/2015
                This core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the
                target value was not specified at appraisal. Four collaborative projects include: (i)
                seed broadcasting in Luang Namtha, involving NAFRI and DAFOs; (ii) seed
Comments
                quality control, involving NAFRI and DOA; (iii) coordination of the R1 and R2
(incl. %
                seed production (NAFRI) with the demand for R3 seeds (DOA and DAEC); and
achievement)
                (iv) conservation agriculture technologies, including intercropping of upland rice
                with muang beans and stylo (fodder crop) and rotation system technology,
                involving NAFRI and DAEC.
Indicator 10 : Rural roads constructed and rehabilitated
Value                                                                          179 km constructed
(quantitative                0               Not specified                         and 244 km
or Qualitative)                                                                   rehabilitated
Date achieved           04/27/2010                                                 01/09/2015


                                                  ix
Comments          This core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the
(incl. %          target value was not specified at appraisal. The road-related activities were carried
achievement)      out under Components 3a and 3b.
Indicator 11 :    Number of cyclone-affected households who received project support
Value
(quantitative                 0                Not specified                            20,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/27/2010                                                 01/09/2015
                This core sector indicator was added during the project implementation, thus the
                target value was not specified at appraisal. There was a degree of overlap (difficult
Comments        to estimate precisely) between categories of beneficiaries. It can be estimated that
(incl. %        about 20,000 households were beneficiaries of post-Ketsana assistance, including
achievement) 11,628 households receiving farm inputs, 7,500 households benefitting from
                livestock vaccination, and 18,000 households benefitting from infrastructure
                rehabilitation.
Indicator 12 : Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative                0                Not specified                           42,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/27/2010                                                 01/09/2015
                This World Bank-wide mandatory indicator was added during the project
Comments        implementation. There was a degree of overlap between categories of beneficiaries
(incl. %        within the same villages, for example Components 2a and 3a and Components 2b
achievement) and 3b. The team’s estimate is that 42,000 households were direct beneficiaries of
                the project activities.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     03/20/2011       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            0.98
                              Moderately                    Moderately
  2     07/21/2011                                                                          1.18
                            Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  3     02/10/2012       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             3.20
  4     09/04/2012       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             5.81
  5     04/08/2013       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             7.83
  6     11/24/2013           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    9.39
  7     05/09/2014           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    9.80
  8     12/05/2014           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   10.12
  9     12/17/2014       Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   10.12



                                                   x
H. Restructuring (if any)
                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board
                            Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring   Approved                                   Reason for Restructuring &
                                           Restructuring
   Date(s)        PDO                                           Key Changes Made
                              DO     IP       in USD
                 Change
                                             millions
                                                         Reallocation of the EU grant to
  06/06/2011       N          MS     MS          1.18    the activities initially assigned for
                                                         financing by the IDA grant
                                                         Amendment to FA to (i) permit
                                                         financing of seed quality control
  06/07/2013       N          MS     MS          8.53    activities and completion of the
                                                         Gene bank, and (ii) reallocate
                                                         funds between categories.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                            xi
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.      The Lao Upland Food Security Improvement Project (LUFSIP) responded to a request
from the Government of Lao PDR (GOL) to support: (i) the recovery needs of households affected
in September 2009 by Cyclone Ketsana, in selected districts of the three Southern Provinces of
Attapeu, Xekong and Saravane; and (ii) the improvement of the food security and resilience to
climatic and/or other external shocks of households upland areas. It was financed by the World
Bank through its pilot Crisis Response Window and by the European Union (EU) through the
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP).

1.1     Context at Appraisal
2.      The Ketsana Cyclone. On September 29, 2009, Typhoon Ketsana crossed Vietnam and
swirled into the Southern part of Lao PDR, causing widespread damage in 26 districts of the five
Southern provinces of Attapeu, Xekong, Saravane, Savannakhet, and Champassak. According to
Laos’ National Disaster Management Office, more than 30,000 households were affected by
Ketsana. Flood waters swept away roads, bridges, houses, schools, hospitals, irrigation
infrastructure, crops and livestock. Many of the 26 affected districts were among the poorest of
the country. Some of the districts worse affected were located in the upland areas of the Attapeu,
Xekong and Saravane Provinces where poverty was already very high (with 45 percent of the
population living below the poverty line in Attapeu and Xekong Provinces and 40 percent in
Saravane Province).
3.       The GOL provided immediate relief assistance to affected populations and carried out a
Post Disaster Damage, Loss and Needs Assessment (PDNA) in October 2009, with the support of
development partners (including the World Bank under the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction
and Recovery). The PDNA estimated the total cost of post-Ketsana short-term “recovery needs”,
i.e. for restoring pre-disaster conditions, to $58 million, including: (i) $11 million in the social
sectors; (ii) $25 million in infrastructure; and (iii) $22 million in the productive sectors of which
$17 million in agriculture. Because of the magnitude of the financing required, it called upon its
development partners for assistance.
4.      Country context. Lao PDR was one of the poorest countries in South East Asia. In 2009,
when the project was prepared 27 percent of the population lived below the poverty line1. Poverty
incidence was higher in rural areas where it stood at 32 percent (almost twice the rate of the urban
areas). There is also a wide variation in rural poverty rates. Poverty had fallen significantly (to less
than 25 percent) in Vientiane, Central and Southern regions along the Mekong Valley and along
the Thai and Chinese borders, where economic growth has been driven by cross-border trade, but
it remained high (more than 40 percent ) in the remote upland areas in the North and along the
Eastern border with Vietnam, where villages largely inhabited by ethnic minority groups were still
cut off from markets and services and suffered from chronic food insecurity and malnutrition2.
5.    In Lao PDR, food insecurity is closely associated with adequate access to rice, which
consumption accounts for more than 2/3 of population’s calorie intake. In 2010, at the time of

1
 Lao Expenditure and Consumption Surveys, conducted every five years since 1992/3.
2
 The largest proportion of food insecure households undertaken is found in the provinces of Bokeo (41 percent),
Saravane (30 percent), Xieng Khuang (25 percent) and Sekong (24 percent).

                                                      1
project appraisal, Lao PDR was self-sufficient in rice at the national level. However, the country
still faced two major challenges in addressing food security due to: (i) a marked instability in
annual production due to climatic conditions and frequent natural disasters (flooding and
droughts), which were becoming a regular and devastating occurrence3; and (ii) a high prevalence
of food insecurity and malnutrition in large parts of the rural areas, in particular in the Northern,
Central and Southern Highlands where increases in food production, in a difficult and fragile
environment, had not matched population growth. Rice shortages in those areas averaged about 3-
4 months/year.
6.      The GOL’s National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES, 2003) had the
long-term objective to sustain broad-based economic growth at 7 percent per annum, a rate
considered necessary to eradicate mass poverty by 2010 and triple per-capita income by 2020. It
recognized the central place of agriculture and the critical role of rice for food security at national
and household levels. Accordingly, one of its central objectives was annual agricultural growth
rate of 4-5 percent. The NGPES also targeted the country’s 47 poorest districts (out of a total of
143) to be the focus of a specific poverty reduction program, based on a comprehensive community
development approach.
7.       Sector context. Agriculture is central to the Lao economy. In the 1990s and early 2000s,
agriculture grew at 4 percent per annum, fueled largely by an expansion of land under cultivation
and some increase in productivity. However, the rate of growth slowed down markedly around the
mid-2000, in particular for rice production. In 2010, the sector accounted for 42 percent of GDP
and 67 percent of total employment. Most agricultural households are still engaged in rice-based
subsistence agriculture, raising livestock and collecting forest products. Rice makes up 25 percent
of agriculture GDP and occupies 68 percent of the total cropped area. Input use (improved seeds,
fertilizer) is still very low, except in the more rice developed areas in the Mekong plains.
Productivity is thus low, with rice yields ranging between 1.5 and 3.5 tons per ha.
8.     The National Strategy for Agriculture and Food Security (March 2006) was framed by the
NGPES and the Sixth Five-Year National Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-2010) and
had for objective to achieve a 3.5 percent annual growth rate in agriculture over the period,
maintain food/rice production at 500 kg of paddy per capita and improve the level of food security
at household level. The strategy recognized the need to adopt approaches tailored to the specific
characteristics and development potential of the country’s main farming system4, with the better
endowed Southern and Central Lowland areas along the Mekong producing a commercial surplus
of rice and ensuring the national food security by the accelerated adoption of improved
technologies and building more diversified agricultural and non-agricultural livelihoods.


3
  Ever year in the 37 year period from 1966 to 2002, at least part of the country was affected by either drought or
floods, or a combination of both. In 2005 and 2006, more than 7 and 6 percent respectively of country rice cultivation
areas were damaged by floods and drought.
4
  There are four main farming systems: the lowland rainfed and/or irrigated farming systems of the Mekong plains
well suited for irrigated rice production and which are rapidly transitioning to commercial agriculture and declining
poverty rates; Northern lowlands, with a rapid expansion of cash crops (rubber, maize) and livestock activities, with
poverty in decline; the Northern Highlands, with medium to high poverty levels, good agricultural potential, practicing
shifting rice and maize cultivation and raising livestock but currently undergoing a transition from subsistence to more
market oriented agriculture including cash crops (rubber); and the Central Southern Uplands with low population
density and the highest incidence of poverty, with limited potential for agriculture, producing rice for subsistence,
gathering forest products.

                                                           2
9.      The strategy also recognized: (i) the need to promote sustainable farming systems, and in
particular to reduce shifting cultivation, deforestation and soil erosion in the uplands, through the
use of good agricultural practices and conservation agriculture; (ii) the high vulnerability to market
and climate risks (drought or flood) of farmers in the poorer upland areas and the need to diversify
upland farming systems and livelihoods to improve their resilience to climatic events; and (iii)
globally, the need to improve the country’s preparedness (early warning, quick recovery capacity
including for the immediate provision of improved seeds to restore production) to climatic
disasters predicted to become more frequent with climate change.
10.     Rationale for the World Bank involvement. The LUFSIP was fully in line with the 2009
Country Assistance Strategy (2009-12), which focused on supporting the GOL’s NGPES and
Agricultural Strategy. In the agricultural sector, the World Bank assistance was to: (i) support
national and household food security; (ii) promote diversification and commercialization of the
agricultural sector by improving farmers’ access to markets and key input and services; and (iii)
reduce agricultural households’ vulnerability to market and climate related risks. The project
complemented well other projects in the World Bank’s portfolio, which focused on food security
and poverty alleviation5 or financed by other donors6. By focusing on the immediate post-Ketsana
recovery in the agricultural sector and the strengthening of the resilience of upland farming
systems, the project also fell clearly within the mandate of the GFRP7 and the Crisis Response
Window that built on GFRP. The damages caused by Ketsana, coming in the midst of the 2008
international food price crisis and only one year after the record floods of June 2008, which
affected the main rice producing areas along the Mekong River, dramatically underlined the
urgency to implement a program to improve the national food security and mitigate the impact of
recurring natural disasters.

1.2      Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
11.    The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to: (a) contribute to improved food security
of rural households in selected poor villages in upland areas in the Project Provinces by
demonstrating and implementing improved rice-based farming systems, and (b) address recovery
needs of cyclone-affected households in the Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu provinces.
12.    The PDO indicator was “increase rice yields in beneficiary farmer groups by twenty
percent compared to the baseline.” The Intermediate Result Indicators are presented and discussed
together with the corresponding Outcome Indicators in the following sections.




5
  Such as the NamTheun Social and Environment Project and Khammouane Development Project, which also focused
on rural development and poverty alleviation in the central and southern provinces and the Community Nutrition
Project (August 2009), the Rice Productivity Improvement Project (RPIP, 2008) and the Poverty Reduction Fund
Project (July 2008).
6
  The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)-funded Rice Seed Multiplication and Distribution System
Improvement Project or the EU-funded Enhancing Milled Rice Production Project.
7
  The program, established by the World Bank in May 2008, finances activities likely to: (i) reduce the impact of high
volatile food prices on the lives of the poorest segment of the population; (ii) support governments in the design of
sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of high and volatile food prices on poverty and (iii) support
broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food
supply response.

                                                          3
1.3       Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
13.       The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries
14.       The project had two different groups of direct beneficiaries:
         The first group, under sub-components 2b and 3b, was composed of about 20,000
          households and communities affected by Ketsana in 13 districts of the provinces of
          Xekong, Attapeu and Saravane8, pre-identified during the October 2009 PDNA, which
          were to receive: (i) immediate in-kind assistance (seeds and fertilizer) to ensure the
          planting of rice for the 2009/10 dry season (financed through retroactive financing) and
          the 2010 wet season; and (ii) other productive assets, including livestock (sub-component
          2b) and small irrigation and other infrastructure (sub-component 3b), to replace those lost
          or damaged during cyclone Ketsana.
         The second group (under sub-components 2a and 3a) was composed of about 25,000 to
          30,000 households9. They were in 10 upland districts of the five Provinces of
          Xiengkhouang, Houaphan and Luang Namtha in the North, and Savannakhet and Xekong
          in the South. Within these districts, the targeting of beneficiary farmers/communities was
          to be determined through a consultative process at village level. Other beneficiaries
          included government institutions, and in particular: (i) the National Agriculture and
          Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI), through an increased capacity to produce high
          quality rice seeds and test and demonstrate conservation agriculture technologies; and (ii)
          the National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service (NAFES), through the project
          support to its extension strategy and outreach.

1.5       Original Components
15.     Component 1: Support to Conservation Agriculture Stations and Seed Multiplication
Centers (base cost $2.03 million, 14 percent of the project cost). This component sought to: (i)
support improvements to soil fertility by using conservation agriculture based approaches; and (ii)
strengthen the capacity of public sector to produce high quality crop and forage seed of varieties,
in collaboration with farmers.
16.    Component 2: Support to Improved Farm Systems for Food Security (base cost $3.33
million, 23 percent of the project cost), which included two sub-components:
         Sub-component 2a: Support to Farmers Livelihood Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations
          (base cost $1.92 million), supported demonstration of improved technologies and
          cropping systems; establishment of village-level farmer seed multiplication groups; and
          capacity building of farmer organizations at village and Kuhn Banh level.


8
  The PDNA estimated that a total of 30,000 households were affected by Ketsana in the five concerned provinces.
The project targeted 13 districts of the three the most affected provinces of Attapeu, Xekong and Salavan (which
include 17 districts in total) and an estimated 20,000-22,000 households.
9
  The number of rural households in 26 districts of the five concerned provinces is estimated at 220,000. In the 17
districts targeted by the project, the number of rural households is estimated at 90,000, of which one-third may be
direct beneficiaries.

                                                        4
         Sub-component 2b: Agricultural Assistance for Cyclone Recovery (base cost $1.42
          million) responded to immediate needs for seeds and agricultural inputs for rural
          households in Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu Provinces to recover losses for livelihoods
          suffered during cyclone Ketsana through both emergency assistance and improved
          resilience of agriculture to natural disasters.
17.   Component 3: Support for Rural Infrastructure Improvement and Community-led
Recovery (base cost $7.92 million, 54 percent of the project cost), which included two sub-
components:
         Sub-component 3a: Rural Infrastructure for Improved Agricultural Livelihoods (base cost
          $3.73 million), geared towards the improvement of agricultural livelihoods and food
          security, through the provision of sub-grants and technical assistance to beneficiaries in
          selected districts of the Provinces of Xiengkhouang, Houaphan, Luang Namtha,
          Savannakhet and Xekong for improving small community infrastructure (irrigation
          improvement, road and track improvement, livestock fencing and handling facilities,
          biogas facilities and grain storage, etc.).
         Sub-component 3b: Community-Led Recovery (base cost $4.19 million) supported
          community-led post-Ketsana recovery in selected districts of the Provinces of Saravane,
          Xekong and Attapeu Provinces, through the restoration of rural infrastructure, including
          rehabilitation and repairs of damaged irrigation systems.
18.    Component 4: Project Coordination and Management (base cost $1.31 million,
9 percent of the project cost), under the responsibility of MAF’s Department of Planning (DOP),
financed activities related to the overall coordination of the project, including technical assistance
and incremental operating expenditures to support procurement, financial management,
management of safeguards issues, internal and external auditing and the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system specifically designed for the project.

1.6       Revised Components
19.  There was no new component, but there were several revisions of Component 1 and
Component 2 during the implementation:
         Support to the Department of Agriculture (DOA) of MAF to strengthen its capacity for
          seed quality control. Although not originally envisaged, it become clear early during the
          project implementation that there was a need to ensure the quality of seed produced by
          seed stations and farmer groups under the project in order to develop farmers trust in the
          value of good seed. The project supported: (i) operationalization of the MAFs’ new Rice
          Seed Quality Management Regulations and Guidelines for Rice Seeds Inspection; (ii) the
          upgrade of DOA’s main seed control laboratories (in NaFREC, Vientiane and
          Savannakhet); (iii) the training of its staff; and (iv) implementation of a pilot program to
          implement the new seed quality control arrangements in two project provinces.
          Strengthening DOA capacity at seed quality control was very much in line with the PDO,
          as producers’ willingness to adopt improved seed critically depend on the quality of the
          seeds and the improvement in productivity induced by their use. This support to DOA was
          approved through an amendment to the IDA Financing Agreement dated June 7, 2013.
          This amendment also included approval for the financing of additional equipment for the
          Naphok Gene Bank (see below) as well as minor changes in the definition of “incremental
                                                   5
          operating cost” and clarifications of the Intermediate Result Indicators of Components 1
          and 2(a).
         Establishment of Gene Bank in Naphok Research Center. Originally, LUFSIP support for
          the rehabilitation of the rice Gene Bank at Naphok research center was limited to the
          construction of a new building, as it was expected that the necessary equipment would be
          financed from other sources. However, this other financing did not materialize and the
          GOL requested the World Bank to finance under LUFSIP the minimum equipment
          necessary to make the gene bank fully functional. The proposed change enabled Lao PDR
          to ensure the preservation and storage of more than 13,000 traditional and improved
          varieties of Lao rice and to enhance food security through improved protection of
          country’s rice gene diversity.
         The preparation of a medium-term plan to enhance the resilience of rural communities to
          shocks, originally to be funded under sub-component 2b, was dropped at the request of
          MAF as similar initiatives were on-going under the coordination of the National Disaster
          Prevention and Control Committee established under the Prime Minister Office.

1.7       Other Significant Changes
20.     There was another change in the project’s funding arrangements. At GOL’s requests in
March 1 and April 25, 2011, $1.8 million of EU Grant funds under Components 1 and 2a were
reallocated to the financing of community-led recovery in Ketsana affected districts of Saravane,
Xekong and Attapeu Provinces under Component 3b, originally to be funded 100 percent through
IDA Grant. An equivalent amount of IDA Grant funds was reallocated from Component 3b to
Components 1 and 2a to finance activities, which were originally planned for EU financing. The
reallocation aimed to better utilize EU Grant funding before its closing date and ensure the
achievement of the PDO and results/indicators. It had no impact on the scope of project
components/activities, project institutional arrangements, fiduciary arrangements, and
implementation schedule.

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
21.     Soundness of background analysis. The project’s core focus was on post-Ketsana
recovery and the project was processed in five months (Concept Review: November 18, 2009;
Board Approval: April 17, 2010) as an emergency operation under the GFRP. The project also
supported more strategic activities aimed at: (i) strengthening the capacity of the country to
respond quickly to climatic disasters in the future and restore the national production of rice, the
commodity most critical for national and household level food security, through the improvement
of NAFRI’s capacity to produce seeds of improved, high productivity rice varieties (Component
1); and (ii) improving food security and resilience of uplands communities to climatic or other
external chocks (sub-components 2a and 3a). As this was an emergency operation, there was little
time to carry out any detailed analytical work to support project design. The design of its post-
disaster components (sub-components 2b and 3b) was based on the experiences and lessons of
other post-disaster recovery operations. The design of the seed and agricultural extension
Component 1 and sub-components 2a and 3a was based on the lessons from other donor-funded


                                                 6
projects/programs in Laos as well as on the preliminary results of the World Bank-financed Rice
Productivity Improvement Project (RPIP), which were adapted to upland conditions in Lao PDR10.
22.     Assessment of the project design. The design of sub-components 2b and 3b (Post-Ketsana
recovery) was straightforward and consistent with recognized principles of post-disaster
assistance. The selection of beneficiary households/communities was based on a detailed field
level identification carried out by the PDNA in November 2009. Implementation arrangements
were in line with the national institutional framework: overall coordination responsibility was
given to the MAF’s DOP and the implementation of specific components entrusted to the
responsible MAF’s Directorates and national institutions: the NAFRI was responsible for
agricultural research and seed production; the NAFES and Provincial Agricultural and Forestry
Officers (PAFOs) and District Agricultural and Forestry Officers (DAFOs) were responsible for
extension activities and support to farmer groups; the DOA was responsible for seed quality
control; and the Lao Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF) was responsible for assisting communities in
Government’s poorest districts to implement a wide range of community infrastructure and other
activities selected by the communities themselves. The districts targeted for improving
communities’ resilience and food security (sub-components 2a and 3a) were all part of the GOL’s
47 priority poorest districts. The targeting of specific communities (Kuhn Banhs, villages) within
these districts and implementation arrangements for sub-component 3a were based on the agreed
upon methodology developed by PRF. The criteria for the selection of farmer seed multiplication
groups were adequate and the extension mechanism adopted under sub-component 2a based on
the country’s official Lao Extension for Agriculture Project (LEAP)’s approach.
23.     However, there were some weaknesses in the project design, mainly related to the urgency
for speedy preparation of the project to provide a timely post-Ketsana response:
Cross-cutting:
    The design underestimated the difficulties in ensuring the effective coordination of
       implementing agencies. As a result, the DOP of the MAFF, which was responsible for the
       overall coordinating the project, had occasional difficulties, especially at the beginning of
       the project, of ensuring timely provision of information by these agencies on the
       implementation progress and for the project M&E system.
    Although the project design recognized the need to strengthen the procurement and
       financial management capacity of implementing agencies (except PRF) and took the
       necessary steps to mitigate these fiduciary risks, it underestimated the capacity at the
       decentralized level to prepare annual work programs and budgets.
Component 1:
        The strengthening of NAFRI seed production capacity aimed at restoring the existing seed
         stations to their original production capacity after years of underinvestment. While these
         investments appeared justified, this approach responded only partially to the Component’s
         underlying objective which was to improve the Lao PDR/NAFRI preparedness to respond

10
   Such as the Rice Seed Multiplication and Distribution System Improvement Project funded by the JICA, the
Increasing Crop Yields Project funded by Australian bilateral aid, and research programs financed by the Australian
Center for International Agricultural Research, and the International Rice Research Institute. RPIP was funded under
the GFRP grant approved in August 2009. The ICR number is ICR 0002579 of December 21, 2012.


                                                         7
        quickly and efficiently to a demand of improved seeds due either to post- disaster recovery
        needs or the increased demand from private rice producers. Due to the limited preparation
        time given the emergency nature of this operation, the component’s design was not based
        on the thorough technical assessment of investment needs and related operational
        requirements of the targeted NAFRI seed stations as it would have been done under
        traditional investment lending projects.
       The design of Component 1 did not take into consideration the need to strengthen the
        national capacity to control the quality of seeds produced by NAFRI’s stations and by
        farmer multiplication groups. This was corrected during implementation by adding
        support to DOA for seed quality control.
Component 2a:
       The approach to the establishment of seed multiplication groups was similar to the RPIP.
        It assumed that farmer groups established under the project would be able to sell a
        significant share of their improved R3 seeds to local farmers at prices higher than paddy
        and thus make seed multiplication a profitable business. This assumption, which was more
        appropriate for the more favorable lowland areas in the Mekong Plains of the RPIP where
        rice production systems exhibited more commercial characteristics, may not have been
        sufficient for some remote upland areas where the LUFSIP operated where subsistence
        production systems dominated. Some seed multiplication farmers found it difficult to sell
        their R3 seeds at remunerative prices because of the absence of an effective local demand
        due to insufficiently connectivity to the market. The EPP did acknowledge this risk by
        estimating that about 25 percent of the groups would emerge as functional, viable seed
        multiplication enterprises. Even this may have been overly optimistic.
Results Framework:
       Although the PDO consisted of two parts, i.e. (i) improved food security through rice
        productivity increases in selected upland poor villages and (ii) restoration of livelihoods
        of the cyclone-affected households in five affected provinces, the PDO indicator
        (“Increase in rice yields in beneficiary farmer groups by twenty percent compared to the
        baseline”) covered only part (i) of the PDO. Part (ii) was included in the list of the
        Intermediate Outcome Indicators (“Sample checks at village level confirm that inputs
        reach target beneficiaries” and “Number of villages benefiting from agriculture-related
        community sub-projects delivered through PRF participatory approaches”).
       The EPP did not specify that “beneficiary farmer groups” in the PDO indicator included
        only members of seed multiplication groups and farmers participating in extension
        activities while excluded farmers in Ketsana-affected areas, who were supported to restore
        their livelihoods rather than increase productivity, and farmers receiving small seed kits
        for trials under sub-component 2a. Some Intermediate Outcome Indicators did not have
        the end targets or were hard to monitor.
24.     Adequacy of the GOL’s commitment. GOL was fully committed to project’s objectives.
The post-disaster components (2b and 3b) were clearly a high priority. The objective of the
project’s more production and productivity improvement components (1, 2a and 3a) were also
fully in line with GOL’s poverty reduction, food security and agricultural strategies.


                                                8
25.     Assessment of risks. The EPP correctly assessed the overall risk level as “Substantial” and
identified eight specific risks with the following levels: (i) “Substantial”: for delays in procurement
due to limited expertise in the Bank procedures; fiduciary risks because of an overall high risk
financial management environment; and rice seeds and fertilizers not reaching intended
beneficiaries; (ii) “Moderate”: for the ability of research stations to establish and maintain suitable
farmer groups; possible misuse of inputs by poor beneficiary farmers; the ability of weak technical
staff at DAFO level to carry out the proposed extension and farmer support activities; and the
adequate delivery of community infrastructure; and (iii) “Low”: for the exclusion of ethnic
minorities from project’s benefits. These risk assessments were broadly adequate.
26.     Overall, although the Project’s objectives were pertinent and GOL’s commitment was high,
the Project’s Quality at Entry was Moderately Satisfactory when considering the shortcomings
in design and the risk assessment.

2.2      Implementation
27.      Overall, the Project Implementation was Satisfactory. The post-Ketsana recovery sub-
components (2b and 3b) were straightforward in design and implementation arrangements. These
activities were all completed within the two year recovery period defined by the PDNA (ending in
December 2011), except for the distribution of small animals (completed by October 2012), which
was delayed due to difficulties in sourcing a large number of suitable animals in the concerned
Provinces11. Component 1 was also simple in design. It was completed satisfactorily, although with
some delay, except for its conservation agriculture activities (demonstration of conservation
agriculture technologies, see below). Sub-component 2a was the most complex in terms of
implementation arrangements as it required close cooperation between NAFRI and NAFES. After
initial delays, it was finally implemented in an excellent fashion. Component 3, supporting the
establishment and/or rehabilitation of small community infrastructures, was implemented in a
satisfactory and timely fashion by the PRF, an agency with a proven track record in this area.
28.     The first months of implementation showed some technical capacity weaknesses within the
implementing agencies (except within PRF), in particular at local level. This issue was addressed
through: (i) continuous assistance by the World Bank during and in-between supervision missions,
providing detailed technical guidelines for Component 1 (detailed preparation of technical
specifications of the needed seed production/conditioning equipment) and Component 2
(establishment and operations of seed multiplication groups, setting up of demonstration/extension
activities); and (ii) well-focused training program including for financial/accounting staff at
PAFO/DAFO level. These measures were effective. DAFOs team, strengthened by intensive
training and backed up by NAFES central unit, were capable, without the external technical
assistance envisaged under the project12, to efficiently plan and implement a rapidly expending
program of demonstration/extension activities covering a large proportion of the target districts’



11
   A second round of vaccination, following that undertaken in the immediate aftermath of Ketsana in October-
December 2009 (which benefited from retroactive financing), was undertaken at the request of government in
2011following a new disease outbreak in the target Provinces. It was completed by mid-2012.
12
   It was originally envisaged that NAFES and DAFO/PAFO staff would be supported by specifically recruited
external technical assistance at central (advisor), provincial (coordinators) and local (young ag. graduates) levels. This
external assistance proved to be inefficient (young graduates) or impossible to mobilize for posting in remote areas.

                                                            9
population. DAEC/DAFO teams were also able to design and implement extension
messages/activities based on the analysis of local needs.
29.      At the beginning of the project implementation, there were some coordination issues:
between some implementing units (NAFES and NAFRI), between DOP which housed NCO and
NAFRI and PRF, and between MAF’s central departments and decentralized units (PAFA/DAFO).
These issues were identified by the first implementation support mission in October 2010 and
effective remedial actions were taken: (i) appointment of a specific staff responsible of project
activities and liaising with NCO within NAFRI and NAFES and at DAFO level; (ii) greater power
given to NCO to make budget allocations between components based on their performance; and
(iii) greater implication of the Task Force established under the Project for overseeing the
implementation of the Project, as well as a faster arbitrage by the Project Steering Committee,
chaired by the Vice-Minister of MAF and responsible for providing strategic vision and resolving
implementation issues.
30.      During the first two years of implementation, Component 2a (extension and seeds
multiplication activities) suffered from recurrent delays in the funding of operational costs of field
activities. This was caused by weaknesses in accounting for funds by DAFOs and PAFOs. At mid-
term review, it was decided, within the framework of the Government’s decentralization policy,
to pilot the opening of District accounts allowing the direct transfer of funds from central to district
level (by-passing PAFOs), after strengthening FM capacities at district levels. This considerably
sped-up implementation of front-line activities.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
31.     The short project preparation affected the quality of its M&E system, which had to be
corrected during the implementation. The results framework at entry had a number of
shortcomings, including the omission of PDO indicator related to the post-Ketsana recovery,
unclear definitions of some indicators, and lack of end targets of some intermediary outcome
indicators. Overall, the Project’s M&E system was not fully operational at effectiveness.
32.     Yet the strong system was built during the project implementation. It included detailed
inputs and outputs data collected by NAFRI and NAFES staff at Provincial and District levels and
by PRF’s existing M&E system. Data was collected quarterly, supplemented twice a year at
harvest time by a short questionnaire requested from a random sample of (about 350) households
and focusing on areas planted, yields, tracking seed usage, and adoption of improved agricultural
practices. During implementation, the results framework was improved through clarification of
some indicators and the addition of core sector indicators. Monitoring of indicators was
complemented by impact evaluation. The baseline survey, undertaken by an externally recruited
firm, was completed in 2011. The same firm then undertook the 2012, 2013 and 2014 (final)
benchmark surveys. The M&E officer was responsible for maintaining the database, carrying out
data analysis, and preparing quarterly progress reports.
33.     The overall M&E is rated as Moderately Satisfactory as initial weaknesses were addressed
during implementation. The progress reports were submitted in time to the World Bank and they
were of high quality. Data was collected and analyzed in a timely fashion, allowing project
management to plan and monitor implementation and progress. The quality of the analysis and
reporting was good, gradually improving throughout the life of the project. It produced detailed
and useful information for project management and monitoring by NCO and the World Bank. The

                                                  10
baseline survey provided a reasonably good basis for evaluating project impact. The three
successive benchmark surveys, covering six crop cycles (from the dry season 2011/12 to wet
season 2014), were of good quality and provided data to adequately assess project’s impacts.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
34.     Environmental and Social Safeguards. The project was classified as category B. It
triggered Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), due to civil works in
subprojects under Component 3, OP 4.09 (Pest Management) and OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous
Peoples). The project’s overall environmental impact was considered as positive through
improvements in soil fertility and reduction of slash and bum activity. Its social impact was also
positive by improving the food security of upland communities with diverse ethnic groups and a
high incidence of poverty. Under Component 1, the civil works were small scale and undertaken
within the existing research centers and seed stations. Infrastructure built or rehabilitated under
Component 3 was small, with limited potential adverse environmental or social impacts. The
project paid specific attention to the participation of ethnic minorities in activities under
Components 2 and 3.
35.     The Project Safeguard Compliance was Satisfactory. No major safeguard issues were
identified during project implementation. Project financed activities did not cause significant
negative environmental or social impacts. The project did not procure pesticides and it promoted
IPM through farmers’ trainings, bio-compost production and application for soil management
techniques. No major concerns were raised by farmers during project implementation and ethnic
preferences and concerns were taken into account in the planning and implementing the project
activities. According to the M&E System, participation by ethnic farmers in project’s rice seed
multiplication and extension demonstration activities was consistent with the share of these groups
in target Districts’ populations. The technical audit of small infrastructures realized under
Component 3 undertaken in 2014 confirmed that there were no adverse environmental impacts and
no resettlement. No problems were observed concerning the Unexploded Ordinances’ clearance.
36.      Financial Management. The FM, rated Moderately Satisfactory during the entire project
period, was upgraded to Satisfactory during the last supervision mission. The project met all FM
covenants of the Financing Agreement, and FM arrangements complied with the World Bank’s
requirements per OP/BP 10.02. There was some delay in recruiting the FM staff at the beginning
of the project (the international FM consultant was recruited in early 2011) and the computerized
accounting system (ACCPAC) was not operational until mid-2011 (project accounts and IFRs had
to be produced manually). Throughout the project life, substantial training of staff at central,
province and district levels was carried out on financial management and the use of ACCPAC.
The IFRs and audit reports were submitted in time. All annual external audits were unqualified
and prompt remedial actions were taken on auditors’ recommendations. One of the notable
achievements of the project was the opening, in 2013, of district accounts in six of the project
districts (for Component 2) to facilitate flow of funds for the implementation of extension and seed
multiplication activities to pilot Government decentralization policy. This pilot was successful and
this arrangement will be gradually scaled up by MAF to all the districts of the country.
37.    Procurement. The Procurement Management rating of the project was Satisfactory.
There were no major issues regarding compliance with procurement policy and guidelines. The
procurement plan was regularly updated. Two minor issues -- the procurement of small animals
under component 2b and the eligibility of some expenditures claimed by the Department of
                                                11
Irrigation (DOI) for irrigation rehabilitation sub-projects under Component 3b -- were resolved
satisfactorily. There were delays in: (i) the recruitment of NCO’s international procurement
specialist (recruited only at the end of 2010, shared with RPIP) due to difficulties in mobilizing
the necessary expertise on the local market, and (ii) the preparation by NAFRI of the technical
specifications for the civil works and equipment for the rehabilitation of its seed stations under
Component 1, which made necessary (as already mentioned) to reallocate funding responsibilities
between the two Grants and permit the full disbursement of the EU grant before its closing date.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
38.      There is no direct follow-up to LUFSIP, which was an emergency response to the Ketsana
cyclone and the 2008 food crisis. However, some of the activities and undertaken under sub-
component 2a (seed multiplication/purification activities by farmer groups at village level and the
new approach to extension) may continue under MAF’s own operations. Project support to the
Naphok gene bank will also permit the implementation of important programs for the conservation
of Laos’ very rich diversity in traditional rice varieties for future research and breeding programs.
Institutional reforms piloted under the LUFSIP such as the program (Component 1) for
strengthening DOA’s capacity for seed quality control or the opening of District accounts for
speeding up the flow of funds in favor of front line activities will be scaled up nationally and
mainstreamed into MAF’s policies and procedures.
3.     Assessment of Outcomes
3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
39.      The objectives of providing recovery assistance to Ketsana victims and improving the food
security and resilience to shocks of very poor and vulnerable households in upland communities
were highly relevant at the time of appraisal, in line with emergency needs and the country
development and agriculture sector agendas. The project coverage of priority poverty districts and
its criteria for selecting participating villages and households were in line with the NGPES. Its
overall design was in general valid, with implementation responsibilities given to the relevant
ministries and departments. The project was also fully in line with the mandate of the World
Bank’s GFRP.
40.     The activities undertaken under the project remain highly relevant. Although the 2008
global food crisis has subsided, the main focus of GOL’s strategy, as stated in the NGPES, still is
to eradicate rural poverty through “improving livelihood and food security through agriculture”
and the country is prone to increasingly frequent climatic disasters. Improving the productivity of
farming systems and food security in upland areas, and strengthening the country’s readiness to
respond to recurring climatic disasters by increasing its capacity for producing good quality seeds
is thus still at the core of GOL’s poverty alleviation strategy.




                                                 12
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory13
41.     The weighted-average rice yield in beneficiary farmer groups increased by 21 percent
compared to the baseline, according to the 2014 benchmark survey14. This is slightly above the
project’s 20 percent end target. By beneficiary group, the average yield increased by 25 percent
for 74 “seed farmers” included in the 2014 survey and by 18 percent for 140 surveyed “extension
farmers”. Moreover, the comparison of paddy yields obtained during the wet season 2014 by
participating and non-participating farmers in the same villages (thus eliminating the impact of
different agro-climatic conditions between different years and villages) showed that yields of
project farmers were about 20 percent higher than yields of non-project farmers15. Thus, the target
increase of 20 percent over the baseline was achieved, i.e. the first part of the PDO (“contributing
to improved security of poor rural households in upland communities of project provinces”).
42.     In addition to achieving the productivity target, the project had the positive impact on food
security. By the end of the project, about 26 percent of extension farmers included in the 2014
benchmark survey experienced some rice shortage during the year. In the same villages, the
number of non-participating farmers with rice shortages was estimated at 32 percent.
43.     The project also achieved the second part of its PDO (“addressing recovery needs of
Ketsana affected households in the project’s target districts of the Sekong, Saravane and Attapeu
provinces”), although indicators to measure this progress were included in the list of intermediate
outcome indicators. All households identified by the November 2009 PDNA received the
necessary emergency assistance (seeds, agricultural inputs and small livestock) within a two year
period following the cyclone, and sample checks at village level confirmed that inputs reached
target beneficiaries. All community infrastructure in 86 villages damaged by Ketsana, as also
identified by the PDNA, was rehabilitated before the end of 2011.
3.3      Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory
44.     The assessment of the project efficiency includes three aspects, i.e. (i) speed and efficiency
of emergency assistance as this was emergency project; (ii) cost effectiveness of community
infrastructure delivery; and (iii) other gains not realized by the project closure but having lasting
impacts. More details are provided in Annex 3.
45.    Emergency assistance. The audit of activities under Component 2b indicates that most
beneficiaries identified by the post-Ketsana PDNA received the required inputs in a timely manner.
The direct cost of inputs (seeds, livestock) distributed to beneficiaries represented 86 percent of


13
   The ICR rating is upgraded to Satisfactory from Moderately Satisfactory in the last Implementation Support Report
(ISR) due to: (i) the availability of the final impact assessment that showed higher yields than assumed at ISR and had
data on yield changes for the project participants and non-participants (see footnote 15); (ii) the evidence from the
final PRF’s technical audit on the good record of investments’ quality; and (iii) the addition of evidence of the project’s
positive impacts on the cyclone-affected households despite the absence of the specific PDO indicator.
14
   CES LUFSIP Impact Assessment Study 2014- Final Report.
15
   Paddy yields of farmers, members of seed producer groups, averaged 4.70 tons/ha, 21 percent higher than the
yields (3.91 tons/ha) of non-participants in the same villages. Yields of participants in extension activities were 19
percent higher than those who did not participate (3.59 tons/ha and 3.01 tons/ha respectively).

                                                           13
total cost of activities under the component, and overheads about 14 percent. The latter indicates
that the emergency assistance activities were delivered efficiently.
46.     Community Infrastructure under Components 3a and 3b. According to the technical audit,
the unit costs and technical quality of sub-projects were reasonable, with two-thirds of the sub-
projects in the sample having the cost below that of similar projects in Laos. The overall quality
of most irrigation sub-projects was found satisfactory or moderately satisfactory (11 out of 16 sub-
projects, 70 percent), while the quality of pasture fencing sub-projects was less satisfactory largely
because weak O&M arrangements. Most irrigation investments has high economic and financial
returns. The analysis of a sample of 16 irrigation sub-projects carried out by the technical audit
indicates that 11 sub-projects had a high financial rate of return (above 20 percent ), although 4
had negative FRRs (all concerning weir rehabilitation, which had relatively high costs compared
to the irrigated area)16. The PRF’s infrastructure investments were accompanied by the
establishment and strengthening of community arrangements for O&M.
47.     Longer-term gains: The short implementation period of the project did not allow realization
of some important gains by the end of the project, but they have large lasting effects. For example,
information on adoption of various extension technologies (see Annex 2) and rates of return to the
use of different seed technologies and seed multiplication (see Annex 3) provide the unique
information to MAF for design of the next generation extension programs. Such an information
was not available before. Moreover, the establishment of the Gene Bank has enabled Lao PDR to
ensure the preservation and storage of more than 13,000 traditional and improved varieties of rice
and to enhance food security through improved protection of country’s rice gene diversity. The
strengthened capacity of MAF for seed quality control provides a basis for improving the quality
of seeds produced in the country.

3.4       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

48.     The project’s objectives were highly relevant. The project met most of its key performance
targets, provided efficient assistance, and had a significant institutional development impact. Its
Overall Outcome Rating is thus Satisfactory.

3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts.
(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
49.       The project had a strong poverty alleviation focus and impact:
         It provided post-Ketsana assistance to about 20,000 households in 400 villages of 15
          districts of the Saravane, Sekong and Attapeu provinces through: (i) addressing their
          immediate food security concerns by providing emergency assistance to more than 15,000
          households; and (ii) rehabilitating productive and transport infrastructure damaged by the
          cyclone and thus restoring about 18,000 households’ productive capacities to pre-Ketsana


16
  The results of this analysis have to be considered carefully since accurate information was difficult to obtain and
the evaluation implied a lot of assumptions (crops cultivated, yields and irrigation intensity) since the sub-projects had
just been recently completed.

                                                           14
          level (7,122 households benefiting from rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure and 13,000
          households benefiting from restored access to water, markets and social services) in 86
          villages of 13 districts in the same Provinces17;
         It improved the productive, income generating capacity, access to market and food
          security of an estimated 22,000 households in 301 communities in 17 upland districts, all
          part of Government’s 47 poorest priority districts, of the 5 Provinces of Xiengkhouang,
          Houaphan, Luang Namtha, Savannakhet and Sekong by: (i) training 684 farmers in seed
          multiplication/purification activities; (ii) promoting improved agricultural technologies to
          about 4,000 farmers through extension points established in 425 villages; (iii) distributing
          10 kg packs of improved R3 seeds to more than 5,000 farmers for demonstration/trial
          purposes; and (iv) creating collective productive/economic infrastructure (irrigation, rural
          roads, bridges, storage, and improved pasture) benefiting an estimated 15,000 households.
50.     These activities equitably benefitted to ethnic minorities. Although there is no available
information regarding the gender dimension, it is reasonable to assume that project activities
benefitted equally male and female members of beneficiary households.
(b)       Institutional Change/Strengthening
51.     The project contributed significantly to the strengthening the capacity of NAFRI to produce
high quality seeds and to the establishment within MOA of a good capacity to control the quality
of improved seeds produced in the country. It supported the establishment of the Gene Bank that
will be able to store and preserve the country’s very rich diversity in indigenous rice varieties. It
established a significant decentralized capacity for seed multiplication/purification at village level
in remote upland areas. Finally, it also strengthened extension system and increased the technical
and communication skills of DAFOs staff in participating districts.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
52.    A baseline survey and three successive benchmarking surveys were conducted by an
externally recruited firm (2012, 2013 and 2014). A technical audit of sub-projects implemented by
PRF under sub-components 3a and 3b was also carried out. They all included extensive field work
and discussions with project’s beneficiaries. Their findings were taken into account in the
assessment of project’s achievements.

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

53.     The project has generated significant benefits. The GOL is committed to finance the
NAFRI seeds stations, the Gene Bank, and continue the provision of seed and extension services
in the project areas. Investments in community infrastructure are packaged with the appropriate
O&M arrangements. MAF’s seed quality control system enables further development of farm seed
multiplication across the country. Given the renewed attention to smallholder agriculture in Lao
PDR and the recognition of its role in poverty reduction and nutritional security in the (under
preparation) 8th Five-Year National Socio-Economic Development Plan (2016-2020), the above-

17
   There is a degree of overlap between beneficiaries of Component 2b and 3b, between beneficiaries of various activities under
Component 2b and as well as between beneficiaries of rehabilitated irrigation and other infrastructure under Component 3b.

                                                             15
described agricultural public goods are expected to receive increased financing over coming years.
The risk to development outcome is however Moderate. The remote and poor upland districts have
difficult environment for farming requiring persistence and experimentations in promoting new
technologies there. Maintaining and scaling up the activities supported under the project without
continued donor support may prove difficult.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
54.     The project was prepared and processed as an emergency operation under OP/BP 8.0. It
was a combination of emergency recovery activities and improvement of the food security and
incomes of rural households in upland areas through agricultural productivity increases. The
design of the post-disaster components (Components 2b and 3b) was satisfactory. It was
straightforward, based on recognized principles of post-disaster assistance and consistent with the
mandate of the Bank’s GFRP. The selection of beneficiary households/communities was based on
a detailed field level identification carried out by the PDNA. The approach to the establishment of
the seed multiplication groups was based on the preliminary results of the World Bank financed
RPIP, which was adopted to upland conditions of the LUFSIP, and the extension mechanism on
the main principles of the country’s official national extension approach. The rural infrastructure
components were implemented according to the satisfactory methodology of the PRF.
55.    However, because the project was processed in only five months as an emergency
operation, there was little time to carry out the detailed preparation and the design suffered from
some shortcomings. Components 1 and 2a were prepared mostly with NAFRI, as a follow-up to
the RPIP project, with little involvement of other relevant MAF departments (DOP, DOA, NAFRI,
DAFOs/PAFOs), which resulted in coordination/cooperation difficulties during the project’s start-
up phase. The PDO outcome indicator measured only one of the two objectives of the Project
(improved food security of rural households in selected poor villages in upland areas in the Project
Provinces by demonstrating and implementing improved rice-based farming systems) but did not
address the recovery needs of cyclone-affected households in the Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu
provinces. In addition, several Intermediate Results and Indicators were not clearly defined.
(b)    Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
56.      The Bank staff quickly identified and resolved the main design, implementation and
fiduciary issues. The first implementation support mission carried out the participatory preparation
of the detailed Project Implementation Manual which clarified implementation arrangements. In
total, eleven implementation/technical support missions were carried out over the 4.5 year project
period. In addition, many teleconferences were held to resolve urgent implementation issues. The
TTL who was based in the region visited Lao PDR on monthly basis to follow up with the MAF
on implementation issues. Supervision reporting was detailed and frank, providing a clear
guidance for necessary corrective actions. The World Bank spent a substantial amount of time
providing FM, procurement and technical guidance. Bottlenecks in financial and procurement

                                                16
management were efficiently resolved and there were no major fiduciary or safeguard issues
during implementation. The World Bank team also paid considerable attention to the design and
operations of the M&E system for tracking progress against the PDO and key indicators.
Corrective/supportive action was thus quickly taken.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
57.     The Overall Bank Performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The satisfactory
implementation support allowed to correct initial design weaknesses, helped achieve the project’s
PDO and most of its intermediate results, and even improved some of the outcomes (e.g., support
to seed quality control and the completion of the Gene Bank).

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
58.     GOL was fully supportive of the project and the performance was Satisfactory. The NCO,
established within MAF’s Department of Planning, was well staffed and provided very strong and
focused guidance and support to the various implementing agencies. Project’s activities were
monitored closely and implementation issues and potential risks efficiently addressed. Although
the Project Steering Committee (PSC) did not meet regularly, an efficient, informal coordination
mechanism was established between the NCO and the Heads of implementing agencies, which
allowed to address implementation issues on an on-going basis. The PSC did act quickly when key
issues were raised at its level (such as the need to improve coordination between implementing
agencies at the beginning of the project and to restructure the project).
(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
59.     The performance of implementing agencies was Satisfactory. NCO faced initial difficulties
in establishing effective coordination and collaboration among implementing agencies (between
NAFRI and NAFES and between central agencies but the issue was quickly resolved through the
guidance of the PSC. There were extensive beneficiary/stakeholder consultations for the planning
and oversight of the various project activities, and there were no issues with respect to social and
environmental safeguards. There were no major issues with respect to procurement or financial
management issues. Financial reporting was timely and annual audits were submitted on time, and
unqualified. Although there was also a slow start in establishing the project’s M&E system, it was
fully operational by the end of the first year and very effective for supporting project
implementation and reporting. Its findings also made a major contribution to the detailed project
implementation completion report produced by the NCO.
60.     The performance of MAF’s Directorate of Livestock and Fisheries and PRF responsible
for the implementation of the emergency activities under Components 2b and 3b respectively was
very good. The activities were performed efficiently and within the prescribed two year “recovery
period”. PRF’s performance in implementing component 3a was equally good. DOA was very
efficient in implementing the seed quality control activities, including the pilot field testing
program. NAFES at central level and PAFO/DAFO at field level were very committed and pro-
                                                17
active in implementing Component 2a’s seed multiplication and extension activities. Although
they often had to acquire new communication and technical skills, they ensured a good coverage
of beneficiary populations, as evidenced by beneficiaries’ feedback under the M&E system. From
project’s third year, they were able to independently analyze local social, economic and
environmental conditions and re-orientate field activities to align them with local circumstances
(selection of well suited technologies and shift from R3 multiplication to the purification of
traditional varieties). Only NAFRI’s had a sub-par performance (although it did not have a major
impact on project outcome), with long delays in defining the technical specifications of
investments in seed stations and low interest in implementing conservation agriculture activities.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
61.    Based on the assessment of Borrower and Implementing Agencies’ performance, the rating
for Overall Borrower Performance is Satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned
62.     The emergency project can be used to kick start longer-term programs. When the
central focus of the operation was on the one-off short-term measures of an emergency nature,
such as providing post-Ketsana recovery assistance, adding activities that strengthened capacity of
farmers and government to better respond to future emergencies and build a foundation to improve
the quality of public programs is appropriate. However, care should be taken to avoid including
activities which require significantly more time to design adequately and achieve their
development objectives, and may be negatively affected by broader structural institutional and
policy issues.
63.    Demand side issues should be addressed as well as its supply side. LUFSIP’s objective
of establishing a viable network of rice R3 multiplication groups in three-four years was too
optimistic in view of the very limited existing and foreseeable local demand for improved seeds
(except the institutional demand from projects and NGOs). Project objectives and design should
have taken better into account local constraints and existing institutional and policy framework.
64.    Project’s design should be framed by a good strategic understanding of the objectives
and issues. Project’s activities for rehabilitating NAFRI’s seed stations were useful but based on
an incomplete understanding of the issue. The stated objective of Component 1 (“Improving the
national capacity to sustainably produce larger quantities of high quality seeds according to
demand”) would have required a more strategic analysis of the existing capacity constraints and
of where capacity should be established in view of projected regional demand. This was not done,
which resulted in a sub-optimal investment mix.




7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
       Agencies/Partners
(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

                                                18
65.     MAF and PRF prepared a comprehensive Completion Report (Annex 5) which confirmed
that LUFSIP had achieved its two central Development Objectives and its intermediate outcomes:
(i) the full achievement of its post-Ketsana recovery objectives, with more than households
receiving timely assistance; (ii) the upgrading of NAFRI’s aging seed stations and the resulting
improvement of the national capacity to produce high quality seeds; (iii) the establishment within
MAF of an operational capacity for seed quality control; and (iv) the establishment of a
decentralized capacity to multiply R3 seeds of improved rice varieties (or to purify traditional
varieties), and the establishment of efficient, result-oriented extension services. The report also
recognized that the lack of demand for improved seeds in the uplands could affect the viability of
seed production activities in those locations, and that although MAF was favorable to expand the
operational arrangements for seed quality control and field extension services piloted by the
project, the sustainability of these activities would depend on appropriate levels of budget
allocations. The report pointed out the insufficient involvement of MAF’s central and regional
departments in project design and preparation and the lack of sufficiently detailed project’s
implementation arrangements which resulted in the coordination and implementation difficulties
during the project start-up phase, but also the strong support and flexibility of the World Bank
team which allowed to quickly resolve implementation issues and to introduce improvements in
the design such as the inclusion of support to DOA, the completion of the Naphok Gene Bank or
the decentralization of project accounts to District level.
(b)    Co-financiers
66.     The project was co-financed by a grant of the EU’s Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility
($4.6 million). The EU commissioned its completion report in early 2012. The report confirmed a
high degree of project’s ownership both at GOL and community level and stated that the project
had been doing well. It underlined that the presence of many implementing bodies had made
coordination difficult at first but that these difficulties had been overcome as a result of intensive
supervision efforts by the Bank team which involved frequent visits to Lao PDR and project
management meetings between the Bank and NCO teams. Originally, the grant would have
financed activities under Components 1, 2a, 3a and 4 until its closing date of December 31, 2011.
Because of start-up delays, the grant was restructured to direct EU funding to Component 3b to
allow full disbursement by closing date. At the close of EU funding, the project provided
emergency assistance to a large number of Ketsana-affected households and financed 315 sub-
projects completed by end-2011 to restored damaged agriculture; NAFRI’s seed stations were
being rehabilitated as planned and would improve their capacity to produce quality rice seed and
support overall national food security; ten rice seed multiplication groups were established and
they started production under specific contracts; their production supported extension of improved
rice production techniques to a significant number of upland communities.
(c)    Other partners and stakeholders
n/a




                                                 19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in $ million equivalent)
 Components                                 Appraisal      Actual   Percentage of
                                            Estimate                 Appraisal
 Component 1: Conservation Agriculture
                                                2.03        2.03        100
 Station Support
 Component 2: Farm Systems
                                                3.33        3.16         95
 Development
 2(a): Farmer Livelihood Group Support          1.92        1.95        102
 2(b): Emergency Assistance                     1.41        1.21        86
 Component 3: Community Infrastructure
                                                7.92        7.93        100
 and Livelihoods
 3(a): Infrastructure for Agricultural
                                                3.73        4.09        110
 Livelihoods
 3(b): Community Recovery                        4.19       3.84         92
 Component 4: Management and M&E                1.31       1.53         117
 Total baseline and project costs               14.60      14.65        100

 Total financing required                       14.60      14.65        100


(b) Financing
 Source of Funds                            Appraisal      Actual   Percentage of
                                          Estimate (in $             Appraisal
                                             million
                                           equivalent)
 IDA GFRP Grant H561-LA                       10.00        10.07        101
 EU Food Crisis Response Program               4.41        4.58         104
 TF097058




                                           20
Annex 2: Outputs by Component
Component 1: Support to Conservation Agriculture Stations and Seed Multiplication
             Centers ($2.03 million, 14.0 percent of total cost)
1.          This component was to:
           Strengthen the capacity of public sector to produce high quality crop and forage seed of
            varieties, in collaboration with farmers. It addressed the loss of critical equipment and
            infrastructure in Government Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (RRSMCs)
            to provide for the production of clean, dry, weed free, high quality R1 and R2 seed for
            later multiplication as R3 seed for general use by farmer. The Rice multiplication station
            at Luang Prabang would be supported as both a multiplication station and a seed bank for
            upland varieties, which are in danger of being lost as a result of the campaign against slash
            and burn agriculture. The Southern Agriculture and Forestry Research Center (SAFReC)
            would be supported with office and storage facilities to coordinate work in the south. In
            addition, the project was to provide support to establish a small seed laboratory at Naphok
            Central Station and others stations which were considered essential for ensuring quality
            standards.
           Support improvements to soil fertility by the demonstration of conservation agriculture
            based approaches. Existing small Conservation Agriculture Stations in Luang Namtha and
            Xiengkhouang were to be strengthened to expand seed production and outreach. New
            small storage and demonstration stations were also to be established in Houaphan,
            Savannakhet and Xekong.
2.          The component’s intermediate result and result indicator were as follows.


 Improvements in the capacity of the public sector               Production of an incremental annual volume of
 (research centers and seed multiplication stations) to          quality seed (R1 foundation and R2 registered
 sustainably produce larger quantities of high quality           seed) of at least 12018 tons from all participating
 seed (breeder, foundation and registered seed)                  centers supported under the project.
 according to demand.

3.          The main end-of-the-project achievements are the following. The component:
           Strengthened five NAFRI seed centers to increase production and quality of R1 and R2
            seeds responding to the market needs.
           Supported a cumulative increase in production of R1 and R2 seeds by 138 tons from 2011
            to 2014, above the end-of-project target of 120 tons (30 tons/year).
           Supported the development of 5 new upland rice varieties to be made available to farmers,
            compared to the baseline target of 3 varieties.
           Built and equipped a new National Seed Gene Bank in Naphok.



18
     The end target was increased from 30 tons in EPP to 120 tons during the second project restructuring in June 2013.


                                                           21
           Assisted NAFRI to develop training materials for conversation agriculture and to start
            demonstrating a number of promising technologies to farmers in collaboration with
            DAEC.
           Supported DOA in the development of seed quality control regulations and in building its
            capacity for field inspections and laboratory testing of improved seed multiplied by seeds
            stations and farmer groups in selected provinces.
Support to Seed Multiplication Centers
4.       All agreed civil works, farm and the procurement of seed processing equipment and
additional small-scale seed station infrastructures approved in May 2012 were completed in early
2013. Specifically, the project completed: (i) Huaphanh: the renovation of the center’s offices; (ii)
Louang Namtha (LAFReC): new seed equipment, shelter’s construction, renovation of existing
irrigation headwork and laser guided land leveling for paddy field; (iii) Luang Prabang (NAFReC):
storage facilities, grading house, drying floor’s construction, road access to drying floor and
conditioning house, construction of breeding house, erosion control measures and electrical works;
(iv) Phonengam Agriculture and Forestry Research Center (Champassak): workshop for seed
graders, conditioning house and electricity connection to the grid; (v) Sekong Conservation
Agriculture Research Center: storage and drying floor; and (vi) Naphok seed multiplication center:
electricity connection to grid, buildings rehabilitation, construction of a new Conservation
Agriculture Centre and the establishment of a fully operational gene bank. The component also
provided the seed stations with critical farm equipment (6 tractors) and seed processing equipment
(24 winnowers and 24 seed dryers).
5.      The strengthening of NAFRI’s seed production capacity aimed at restoring the existing
seed stations to their original production capacity after years of under-investment. Investments
under the Component were justified and undeniably contributed to increase the capacity of NAFRI
to produce quality seeds. An impact assessment19 was conducted in November-December 2014 in
LAFREC, NAFREC, Naphok, Thasano and SAFREC. It estimated that the additional quantity of
R1 and R2 seeds produced by these centers was 138 tons over a three year period, or about 45
tons/year, higher that the target of an incremental 120 tons (30 tons/year) fixed by the Intermediate
Result Indicator. The Component’s Intermediate Outcome Indicator was achieved.
                                       R1 and R2 seed production     Annual increase
                                           in 5 centers (tons)           (tons)
           Baseline two seasons                    456
           Total 2012 WS                           521                      65
           Total two seasons 2013                  472                      16
           Total two seasons 2014                  513                      57
           Total (cumulative)                     1,506                     138
6.     The sub-component’s indicator was however not defined to determine the specific impact
of the project on NAFRI’s seed production capacity because: (i) other investments were being
made on the same stations under other projects (including under the World Bank-financed RPIP)
in parallel with investments supported under LUFSIP; (ii) centers’ actual production does not
depend on their capacity but on the actual demand for seeds; and (iii) the annual capacity of all

19
     CES LUFSIP Impact Assessment Study 2014- Final Report.


                                                      22
five centers combined was estimated at 900 tons/year, thus exceeding the level of actual annual
demand (fluctuating around 500 tons/year). The Impact Assessment however concluded that
LUFSIP investments had clearly contributed to: (i) an effective capacity increase in the Luang
Namptha and Luang Prabang seed stations (around 30 tons of 1 and R2 /year); and (ii) improve
the quality of the seeds produced and reducing spoilage.
7.      Related to above, while investments under the component appeared justified, they were
only a partial response to the Component’s underlying objective of improving Laos/NAFRI
preparedness to respond quickly and efficiently to a demand of improved seeds due either to post-
disaster recovery needs or the increased demand from private rice producers. Indeed, the
component’s design wasn’t based on a clear strategy for NAFRI’s seed production operations
spelling out clearly potential post-disaster emergency needs or projected medium term needs for
improved seeds in each of the country’s main regions (Uplands, Mekong plains) and thus the
specific role that each of NAFRI’s main seed stations should play within the national seed
production system: its specialization (crops and varieties), required production capacity, etc.20).
Also, there was no assessment of the existing management and human resource capacity at seed
station level, which affected NAFRI’s capacity for seed production as much as the lack of
equipment.
8.      Establishment of Gene Bank in Naphok Research Center. Originally, LUFSIP support
for the rehabilitation of the rice Gene Bank at Naphok research center was limited to the
construction of a new building, as it was expected that the necessary equipment would be financed
from other sources. However, this other financing did not materialize and the GOL requested the
World Bank to finance under LUFSIP the minimum equipment necessary to make the gene bank
fully functional. The proposed change enabled Laos to ensure the conservation of Laos’ very rich
rice gene diversity through the long-term storage of more than 13,000 Laos’ traditional rice
varieties.
9.      Support to DOA of MAF to strengthen its capacity for seed quality control. Although
not originally envisaged, activities specifically directed at ensuring the quality of seeds (including
those used under the project for multiplication and extension activities) were supported under
LUFSIP to operationalize MAFs’ new Rice Seed Quality Management Regulations and Guidelines
for Rice Seeds Inspection: (i) the upgrading of DOA’s main seed control laboratories (in NaFREC,
Vientiane and Savannakhet), (ii) the training of its staff; and (iii) a pilot program to implement the
new seed quality control arrangements in two provinces. These activities, as the productivity
increases expected from the use of improved rice varieties, and thus its impact on farmers’ food
security and income, critically depend on the quality of the seeds. Strengthening DOA capacity at
seed quality control, and therefore improving the likelihood of a wide-spread adoption of improved
seeds by farmers, was thus very much in line with the PDO21.


20
   A nation-wide baseline survey, undertaken by NAFRI (with the participation of the International Seed Quality
Control Expert financed under the project) in November 2011, highlighted the urgent need for better coordination in
the centers activities and for a clear rationalization in investments. This survey was the basis for the cancellation of
investments in a planned new seed station in Xieng-Kouang.
21
  This support to DOA was approved through an amendment to the IDA FA signed by the Country Director, Lao
PDR East Asia and Pacific Region on June 7, 2013. This amendment also included approval for the financing of
additional equipment for the Naphok gene bank (see below) as well as minor changes in the definition of “incremental
operating cost” and clarifications of the Intermediate Result Indicators of components 1 and 2(a).
                                                          23
10.     Support to conservation agriculture. The only Component’s activity that fell short of its
objective under the component was the promotion of conservation agriculture (CA) through
demonstration of improved soil fertility and crop rotation techniques. The main purposes are to
demonstrate the CA technology to farmers and have CA technology gradually adopted by the
farmer community. However, at the beginning of the project, the detailed adaptive research
program to be implemented had not been prepared and there was no assessment of the staff
available at national and provincial level to carry out an efficient implementation of a significant
program. Very few demonstration activities were implemented until the wet season 2014, less than
a year before closing date. Some activities took place in 2012 to serve as a basis for farmers and
NAFES staff training: in Ban Mee on 8 ha (Xiengkhouang province) and in Ban Sivilay 3.5 ha and
in Ban Namsing 8.7 ha (Louang Namtha province).
11.     An acceptable CA program was finally prepared and accepted by mid-2013, focusing on
testing of new promising technologies suited to the specific agro-ecological and market conditions
of the target districts; and tailored to each district/province specific needs. This program was
implemented during Wet Season 2014 by a joint team from NAFRI’s Centre for Conservation and
Development Agriculture Land and DAEC. The CA program was carried out in nine districts of
the four provinces Sekong, Luang Namtha, Huaphanh and Xiengkhouang. It involved 30 villages,
126 households working on 13.7 acres22. Finally, CA teaching materials were prepared to be used
in training of both DAFO staff and farmers (100 sets of posters (2 posters per set), 200 copies of
guideline (manual) of application of CA technology and 200 copies of DVD of application of CA
technologies, and 20 hand seeders (planting tools) were purchased for distribution to DAFO to use
for demonstrations in target villages.
Component 2: Support to Improved Farm Systems for Food Security ($3.33 million, 22.8
           percent of total cost)
12.     The component includes two sub-components: (i) sub-component 2a provides food
security support to farmers in upland areas of five provinces through improvements of upland rice-
based farming systems; and (ii) sub-component 2b supports post disaster recovery to farmers
affected by the Ketsana cyclone through the provision of seeds, fertilizers and other agricultural
inputs in three cyclone-affected provinces.
Sub-component 2a: Support to Farmers Livelihood Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations (total
                   cost $l.92 million, 13.1 percent of total cost)
13.    This subcomponent was at the core of the project overall PDO with respect to the
development of Laos’ upland areas. The PDO Outcome Indicator specified in the EPP was “an


22
   Upland rice and Stylo, maungbean and corn intercropping technologies were demonstrated to 19 PAFO/DAFOs
staff and 50 farmers on 5 ha of land in 10 villages of the Kaleum and Dakcheung districts of Sekong; Red beans and
corn intercropping technology was demonstrated in both Long and Viengphoukha districts to 32 PAFO/DAFOs staff
and 7 farmers on 0.7 ha of land from 4 villages and in both Viengxay and Xengkhor districts to 27 PAFO/DAFOs
staff and 18 farmers on 1.8 ha of land from 5 villages; and Stylo and red beans intercropping techniques were
demonstrated in both Khoune and Thathom districts to 18 PAFO/DAFOs staff and 10 farmers on 1 ha of land from 6
villages.




                                                       24
increase in rice yields in beneficiary farmer groups by twenty percent (20%) compared to the
baseline”. According to the Final Impact Evaluation23, the average yield (paddy) of beneficiary
farmer groups (participating in seed multiplication groups and extension activities) in wet season
2014 was 3.98 tons/ha in wet season 2014, an increase of about 21 percent against the average rice
yield of 3.28 tons/ha recorded by the baseline survey in wet season 2010. In addition, when
comparing paddy yields obtained during the wet season 2014 by participating and non-
participating farmers in the same villages (thus eliminating the impact of different agro-climatic
conditions between different years and different villages), the average yield of participating
farmers was about 20 percent higher than yields of non-participating farmers24. It can be
considered that the target increase of 20 percent over the baseline was broadly achieved and that
the first part of the PDO (“contributing to improved security of poor rural households in upland
communities of project provinces”) was achieved.
14.    The sub-component had three main expected outcomes: (i) increase in rice productivity
and overall levels of production for household adopting the improved packages; (ii) increased
demand for high quality seed and modern high-yielding inputs; and (iii) emergence of farmer
groups as good quality (R3) seed producers after two seasons of support. To achieve these
outcomes, the subcomponent was to support the establishment of village-level farmer seed
multiplication groups and demonstrate the impact on productivity of selected improved
technologies, including improved seeds and fallow improvement, in the project’s target districts.
15.      The sub-component’s Intermediate Result and Result Indicators were as follows:

 Establishment of a system of seed multiplication by Rice production of participating farmers in seed
 small farmers’ groups based on the use of producer groups increase by at least fifteen
 demonstrated modem high yield technical packages.   (15%) compared to baseline.

Establishment of decentralized seed multiplication groups
16.     The project initially intended to establish 20 seed producers groups, two in each of the 10
target districts. The R2 seeds were provided by the research centers supported under Component
1 and the seed production groups produced R3 seeds of improved rice varieties under contract with
LUFSIP. Those seeds were bought from the groups by the project to be graded, dried and bagged
by DAFO technical service centers at district level before further distribution to paddy farmers in
respective production area.
17.     In the 2011 wet season, the project supported the establishment of 12 seed groups: 144
participating farmers produced 114 tons of R3 seeds of improved rice varieties on 49 ha of land.
Each group signed with DAFOs a contract specifying the inputs and support they would receive
from the project, the production techniques to be employed and the quantities to be bought back
by the project and the price they would receive for good quality R3. The quality of R3 seeds was
unequal and less than 20 percent of total production was bought by the project, the balance being
left with the groups for sale (mostly at the price of as standard paddy) and/or consumption. The
number of groups decreased steadily during the project period, as indicated by the table below.

23
  CES LUFSIP Impact Assessment Study 2014- Final Report, February 2015.
24
  Paddy yields of farmers member of seed producer groups averaged 4.70 tons/ha, 21 percent higher than the yields
(3.91 tons/ha) of non-participants in the same villages. Yields of participants in extension activities were 19 percent
higher than those who did not participate (3.59 and 3.01 tons/ha respectively).

                                                         25
There were only 11 R3 seed production groups still active in 2012, and only 4 groups in 2013 and
2014. R3 seed production activities had ceased in all but three districts, because introduced rice
varieties were found to be unsuitable for local cropping conditions (altitude, climate, and farmers’
preferences) and farmers could not sell their seeds except to the project. Instead, many of the R3
seeds production groups were reoriented to local seeds purification of local varieties. At the end
of the project, 4 R3 groups with a total of 23 members were still operating in the 4 target districts
of Xiengkhor, Thathom, Phine and Sepone and produced 51 tons of R3 seeds, and 38 farmers
located in 7 villages of 4 districts (Viengxay, Xiengkhor, Long and Khoune) shifted to local seed
purification activity on 14 ha of land, i.e. the seed improvement technique suitable to local
conditions.
 Districts                   Baseline                      Year 2                   Year 3
                          R3 groups only               R3 groups only      R3 and local seed groups
 Phine              Saysomboun Napkokham (no            Saysomboun          Saysomboun 4 villages
                               est.)                                                 (R3)
 Sepone                    Na Bo (no est.)                 Na Bo                 Na Bo (R3)
                            Tha Khong                    Tha Khong             Tha Khong (R3)
 Dakcheung                    Ayoun
                           Drak (no est.)
 Kaleum                      Vak Neua
                         Songkhon (no est.)
 Viengphoukha                 Nam Fa                         -                   Nam Fa (local)
                             Nam Sing                     Nam Sing                     -
 Long                         Nam An                      Nam An                 Nam An (local)
                              Sivilay                        -                         -
 Viengsay                 Nam On (no est.)                   -                 Pounnakeo (local)
                           Sieng Louang                      -                Sieng Louang (local)
                                                                                  Navid (local)
 Xiengkho                     Ban Hab                     Ban Hab                      -
                          Xiengkho (no est.)              Xiengkho                     -
 Khoun                        San Noy                     San Noy               San Noy (local)
                         Taenthong (no est.)                Koua                  Koua (local)
 Tathom                 Phonechaleun (no est.)          Phonechaleun                   -
                            Nyamchaleun                 Nyamchaleun            Nyamchaleun (R3)
 Villages                        20                          11                       14
 Groups               11 R3 groups established          11 R3 groups          4 R3 + 7 Local = 11
 Members                        161                        56 R3             23 R3 + 38 Local = 51
                              Source: CES LUFSIP Impact Assessment Study 2014- Final Report
18.     The R3 seeds produced by the groups in wet season 2013 were tracked as to their different
uses. A total of 33.8 tons of R3 seeds were produced of which 27.7 tons (82 percent) were assessed
of good quality. About two-third (22.7 tons) of the seeds were sold as seeds at prices between
4,500 to 5,000 Kips/ton (of which 17.7 tons to LUFSIP and 5 tons to other projects). About one-
third (11 tons) could not be sold as seeds and had to be sold as paddy or consumed locally,
including 5 tons that met R3 quality requirements. The fact that only very small quantities could
be sold to non-project parties was the main reason of groups’ loss of interest in R3 multiplication
activities.



                                                 26
19.     The R3 seeds bought by LUFSIP were used in extension activities with a total of 1,300
farmers in 200 different villages using the seeds for demonstration plots (averaging 7 kg per
household). A large quantity of seeds (16.3 tons) was also distributed for testing to 2,766 farmers
out of the original extension groups and villages (without accompanying extension advice).
 Districts        Use in LUFSIP extension villages, kg         Distribution to non-project participants
                  R3 used in Villages      Families         Seeds      Families      Other        Quantity
                  extension                                                         purposes      stored in
                                                                                                   district
 Viengphoukha       2,150        34            198          2,820         277        7,000          1,100
 Long               1,598        54            354            0            0           0              0
 Phine              1,640        37            171          9,015        1,803       3,055            0
 Sepone             1,496        45            205          4,455         686          0              0
 Thathom             150          1             5             0            0           0             942
 Xiengkho           2,040        29            367            0            0           0              0
 Total R3           9,074        200          1,300         16,290       2,766       10,055         2,042
20.    The Sub-component’s Intermediate Output Indicator was “Rice production of participating
farmers in seed producer groups increase by at least fifteen (15%) compared to baseline”.
Although important changes in group membership occurred during the course of the project,
available data indicate that paddy production of selected participating farmers in seed producer
groups increased by 19.2 percent compared to baseline and that yields increased by 16.2 percent
over baseline25. The outcome indicator thus was achieved.
                            Baseline WS 2010          WS 2013         WS 2014         Change to baseline
 Paddy production (kg)           102,286              121,900         121,960             +19.2%
 Planted area, ha                  30.1                 32.6            30.9               +2.7%
 Yield, tons/ha                    3.40                3.74            3.95               +16.2%
21.     The support to seed multiplication has evolved from promoting R3 to seed purification.
The most interesting development in this respect was the introduction of the “purification”
technology. Purified seeds seem to get increasingly popular among upland farmers who can easily
adopt the technology. A major advantage of using purified local seeds is an increase in productivity
and less weed infestation when compared to non-purified seeds. In 2013, the seed purification
group members obtained an average paddy yield of 5.16 t/ha against 4.25 t/ha for non-members in
the same villages, a yield difference of 21 percent. The production of the 2013 cropping season
was consumed rather than sold as the willingness to buy those seeds was still low. However, there
is a growing interest among non-participating farmers in producing purified seeds themselves, or
buying them from other farmers at a premium price over non-purified seeds (3,250 kip/kg against
2,300 kip/kg, a 41 percent premium), and in continuing to use the purified traditional varieties for
consumption or sale. Purification of traditional varieties may well have in the future a significant
and lasting impact on rice productivity beyond the project time frame.
22.    Establishment of an efficient extension system for the promotion of improved
technologies. The EPP did not specify the operational modalities of the extension mechanism to
be used under the project or a specific indicator for its outreach and impact. The following indicator
was included in the PIM during the project restructuring: “At least 2000 farmers reached by


25
   The number of beneficiaries is 26 seed farmers interviewed from 2010 to 2014 about evolution of their rice
production.

                                                      27
extension activities, of which 25% adopt improved techniques at project end”. It was further agreed
that extension activities should cover about 60 percent of all villages of the target districts by the
end of the project.
23.      Extension coverage. Extension activities started during the 2011 wet season: 54 farmers
were involved in extension activities on 12 ha of land, located in 2 villages of 2 target districts
(Viengphoukha and Long of Luang Namtha province). In 2011, less than 10 percent of DAFO
staff as involved in extension activities and the geographical coverage was very low. DAEC
provided intensive training (communication skills, socially inclusive approaches and technical
skills) and technical backstopping of DAFO staff. From project’s third year, DAFO’s extension
staff were able to independently analyze local social, economic and environmental conditions and
re-orientate field activities to align them with local circumstances (selection of well suited
technologies and shift from R3 multiplication to the purification of traditional varieties). During
the 2014 wet season, the target of 60 percent village coverage was reached: 2,991 farmers located
in 425 villages of the 10 target districts were involved in demonstration plots (462 ha of land).
Cumulatively, about 4,000 farmers were directly involved in extension activities during the project
period26.
24.      Finally, about 35 tons of improved seeds were distributed in small pack of 10 kg to 5,144
non-farmers who did not participate in extension activity in 427 villages of seven of the target
districts (Xiengkhor, Viengphoukha, Long, Khoune, Thathom, Phine and Sepone)27, for these
farmers for testing productivity and suitability. This could potentially have a significant impact on
the productivity and production over a large area of paddy production in the following years28.
25.     Adoption rate. According to the CES report, the (weighted average) rate of adoption of
technologies29 was 27.5 percent, above the 25 percent end-of-project target. However, adoption
rates varied widely according to the specific technologies. The assessment of adoption in 2014 of
extension techniques introduced in 2012 presented below.
26.     The improved lowland rice planting techniques (including soil preparation, rice nursery,
and transplantation) were adopted by almost all extension participants. This was however the only
technique adopted by the majority of farmers. The recommended lowland varieties were adopted
by only 19 percent of participants because improved varieties are ripe earlier and are vulnerable to
pests (birds, rodents); farmers prefer local varieties because of their eating characteristics (bigger
grain size, aromatic taste); improved varieties may perform well in lowland plains, but are more
sensitive to cold weather conditions that occur at higher altitudes in uplands. The adoption rate of
upland rice production techniques was 22 percent. The main limit to adoption in this case was the
decrease of upland rice farming related to government policies that aim to reduce slash and burn
cultivation. The soybean planting techniques did not lead to adoption from the farmers because of
low yields as well as unsuccessful results with inter-cropping with upland rice.


26
   Seven agricultural technologies tailored to specific local conditions were promoted by the project, with an adoption
rate of 28 percent among participating farmers and significant spillover effects to farmers not directly participating in
the project.
27
   The remaining three districts (Viengxay, Kaleum and Dakcheung) did not received the R3 seed packs because the
varieties were not suitable for their local conditions.
28
   A small pack of 10 kg is enough to test the improved seeds on about 0.1 ha and to produce about 300 kg of R4, i.e.
enough to plant 3.5 ha in the second year.
29
   After two years. The assessment was made in 2014 for technologies demonstrated in 2012.

                                                          28
 Activity introduced in 2012                   Number of           Farmers still      Adoption rate
                                             participants in        applying in       after 2 years
                                                2012 WS              2014 WS
 Lowland rice planting techniques                   84                  81                96%
 Use of improved seeds (lowland variety)           79                   15                19%
 Upland rice planting techniques                    68                  15                22%
 Use of improved seeds (upland variety)             68                  15                22%
 Soybean planting techniques                        40                   0                 0
 Application techniques for fertilizers            133                  24                18%
 Use of organic fertilizers or pest                49                    0                 0
 repellent
 Foreign rice variety removal                       20                   0                  0
 Seeds selection                                    5                    0                 0
 Total                                             546                  150              27.5%
                     Source: CES LUFSIP Impact Assessment Study 2014- Final Report.
27.     Significant spillover effects were also observed with farmers who, while not directly
involved in extension activities, appropriated some of the techniques promoted by extension staff.
The overall (weighted average) spillover ratio was found to be 44 percent, although, similarly to
participating farmers’ adoption rates, the highest rate of spillover was for the general improved
rice planting techniques with a spillover effect of more than 200 percent (2 non-participating
farmers adopting the technology for each participating farmer adopting). The second highest
spillover rates were for the use of organic fertilizer or crop protection techniques with 76 percent.
Subcomponent 2b: Agricultural Assistance for Cyclone Recovery ($1.42 million, 9.7 percent of
               total cost)
28.     This sub-component responds to immediate needs for seeds and agricultural inputs for rural
households, including livestock, to recover losses for livelihoods suffered during cyclone Ketsana
through both emergency assistance and improved resilience of agriculture to natural disasters. The
target beneficiaries of this Subcomponent comprise the most vulnerable and severely impacted
communities in Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu Provinces.
29.    The Intermediate Result and Result Indicator for the sub-component were as follows:

 Requirements for wet and dry season agricultural inputs Sample checks at village level confirm that
 and minor irrigation infrastructure repairs and medium inputs reach target beneficiaries.
 recovery needs met for the priority cyclone affected
 districts in Xekong, Attapeu and Saravane Provinces.

30.     The sub-components was straightforward in design and implementation arrangements. The
selection of beneficiary households/communities was based on a detailed field level identification
carried out by the PDNA in November 2009. Actual distribution of required inputs started at the
end of 2010 and was completed by end-2011, i.e. within the post-Ketsana two year recovery period
defined by the PDNA, except for the distribution of small animals which was completed in October




                                                  29
2012) because of difficulties in sourcing a large number of suitable animals in the concerned
Provinces30.
31.      A total of 300 tons of certified rice seeds were provided in time for the wet season 2011 to
8,110 affected households in 301 villages over 14 target districts of the 3 affected provinces.
498,215 small animals (3,518 goats, 2,218 pigs, 18,493 poultries and 473,986 fish fingerlings)
were distributed to 3,088 households (in 224 villages of 15 districts), thus restoring these
households productive capacities. A vaccination campaign was also undertaken in 2011 to fight a
disease outbreak in the 3 target provinces, covering around 7,500 households in 413 villages of 15
districts. Sample checks at field level confirmed that the emergency assistance was efficiently
provided to more than 90 percent of pre-identified households by the Ketsana DLNA31. Globally,
taking into account a degree of overlap between the various activities (a number of households
benefiting from more than one kind of support), it can be estimated that about 20,000 households
directly benefited from post-Ketsana assistance under the project. Therefore the sub-component
achieved its objectives32.
Component 3: Support for Rural Infrastructure Improvement and Community-led
             Recovery ($7.92 million, 54.2 percent of total cost)
32.      This subcomponent aimed at: (i) developing small community infrastructure such as small
irrigation perimeters, road and track improvement, livestock fencing and handling facilities and
grain storage, among others to improve income opportunities in upland communities located in 17
poor districts of the five provinces of Xiengkhouang, Houaphan, Luang Namtha, Savannakhet and
Xekong; and (ii) restoring rural infrastructure damaged by the Ketsana cyclone in 13 districts of
the Saravane, Xekong and Attapeu Provinces.
Component 3 a. Rural Infrastructure for Improved Agricultural Livelihoods ($3.73 million, 25.5
               percent of total cost)
33.     The sub-component provided sub-grants and technical assistance for improving small
community infrastructure contributing to the improvement of agricultural livelihoods and food
security. In the five target provinces, the districts were selected among the 47 priority districts
identified by the GOL for poverty reduction programs. The component was implemented by the
PRF, which has a long and successful experience in this type of community development program.
The selection of beneficiary villages and the selection and implementation of sub-projects were
done according to PRF’s participatory procedures which were reviewed and found satisfactory by
IDA, and which ensure gender and ethnic group inclusion. Sub-projects were selected by
beneficiary villages out of their list of priority development activities.
34.   The table below summarizes the list of provinces and districts covered by the sub-
component 3a:




30
   A livestock vaccination campaign was however carried out in the immediate aftermath of Ketsana (early 2010), and
financed by the project through retroactive financing, to fight a disease outbreak.
31
   Source: 2011 and 2012 CES Baseline Surveys
32
   Although implied by the EPP, it was unrealistic to expect that recovery assistance could be provided in time for the
2010 wet season (April-May 2010). Detailed data about affected households had to be checked (done early 2010) and
the necessary inputs sourced, packaged and distributed, including large quantities of improved seeds.

                                                         30
       Provinces                Districts
       LuangNamtha              Long, Viengphoukha, Nalae
       Xiengkhouang             Nonghaet, Khoun, Thathom
       Houaphanh                Xiengkhor, Viengthong, Viengxay, Huameuang, Xamtay
       Savannakhet              Phine, Sepone, Nong, Vilaboury
       Sekong                   Kaleum, Dakcheung


35.      Between 2010 and 2014, 326 sub-projects were completed in 279 villages (27 villages
received more than one sub-project). Excluding the 112 very small agricultural training sub-
projects, agriculture sub-projects represented 55 percent of the total number of subprojects
(irrigation sub-projects 34 percent), transport infrastructure 35 percent and water and sanitation 10
percent.
            All Cycles (VIII + IX + XI) Sub-Project Completion of Component 3a
 C3a Sub-projects                 Number of sub-projects        Beneficiaries (HH)    Investment, $
 Agriculture                                119 (37%)                  10,060        1,841,345 (49%)
 Irrigation                                      74                                      1,129,611
 Rice storage                                    10                                       335,135
 Barb fences                                     30                                       324,818
 Other (fish ponds, biogas)                       5                                        51,782
 Public works                                71 (22%)                   5,148        1,361,053 (37%)
 Rural roads                                     51                                      1,024,067
 Bridges                                         14                                       242,195
 Culverts                                         5                                        72,841
 Others                                           1                                        21,951
 Water and sanitation                         21 (6%)                   1,819         261,210 (7%)
 Health                                       2 (1%)                     87            9,438 (0.3%)
 Education                                   1 (0.3%)                    30            2,824 (0.1%)
 Training                                   112 (34%)                                 254,612 (7%)
 Total                                          326                    17,261            3,730,483
                              Source: PRF Procurement Unit, October 30, 2014.
36.     Specifically, the component achieved the following outputs: (i) the
rehabilitation/construction of by 74 small irrigation perimeters benefitting 5,839 households (with
irrigable land after investment increasing by 300 ha from 2,460 ha to 2,750 ha); (ii) the
rehabilitation and/or construction of 269 km of rural roads, 14 bridges, and 5 culverts benefitting
to 5,142 households; (iii) the implementation of 45 other agriculture sub-projects, including 30
pasture fencing projects (7,660 ha for improved animal feeding and health for about 5,072 cattle
and buffalo) benefiting 1,978 households; and (v) the construction and/or rehabilitated of 24 other
small-scale community infrastructure, including water supply systems as well as health centers
and school. In total, taking into consideration that 34 villages benefitted from more than one sub-
projects, it is estimated that a total of about 15,000 households benefitted from Component 3a sub-




                                                    31
projects, through increased access to markets and social services and increased productivity and
incomes33.
37.     The main challenges faced during implementation were: (i) the unequal quality of
agricultural training sub-projects (the number of these sub-projects was drastically reduced in the
last two years of project implementation; (ii) the lack of upfront economic screening of productive
agriculture sub-project which, once selected by communities, were however checked for the
number of potential beneficiaries (to avoid elite capture)34; (iii) the insufficient collaboration
between PRF and MAF to ensure that beneficiaries of agricultural productive infrastructures would
receive the necessary technical support they needed to make full use of the assets.
38.  Globally however, the final Technical Audit Report of sub-projects undertaken under
Components 3a and 3b 201435 confirmed the satisfaction of communities:
         The selected investment sub-projects were consistent with the priorities specified in the
          Village Development Plans and matched with the priority needs of the different segment
          within the communities.
         The community involvement was satisfactory during selection and implementation. The
          results were regularly reported to the community.
         87 percent of sub-projects were rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory with regard
          to technical quality. Key issues for the unsatisfactory sub-project are mostly related to
          rural road rehabilitation and due to attempts to carry out full improvement instead of spot
          improvement in spite of a limited budget.
         90 percent of the sub-project were rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory with regard
          to Operation and Maintenance with only 10 percent considered as moderately
          unsatisfactory (mainly roads and animal fencing). None of the sub-projects sampled was
          rated unsatisfactory on this aspect.
         No significant adverse social or environmental impact was observed. No resettlement was
          carried out and no specific problems were observed concerning the Unexploded
          Ordinances’ clearance.
Sub-Component 3b: Community-Led Recovery ($4.19 million, 28.7 percent of total cost)
39.    The Sub-Component 3b supported post-cyclone recovery through the restoration of
damaged agricultural infrastructure, including rehabilitation and repairs of damaged irrigation
systems, in the 13 districts of Saravane, Sekong and Attapeu provinces most affected by the
cyclone. All the sub-projects rehabilitated come from the detailed PDNA conducted during
October and November 2009. It was also implemented by the PRF, although through a process
modified to ensure the expediency required for an emergency response. The target districts are as
follows:



33
   Estimated to correspond to about 90,000 persons.
34
   The Technical Audit assessed that that 11 out of a sample of 15 irrigation sub-projects had a high financial rate of
return (above 20 percent) and 4 had negative financial rate of return (all concerning weir rehabilitation which had very
high costs compared to the resulting irrigated area).
35
   Technical Audit of LUFSIP Components 3a and 3b, Lao-Asie Consultants Group, December 2014.

                                                          32
 Provinces                           Districts
 Sekong                              Kaleum, Dakcheung, Lamam, Thateng
 Saravanh                            Ta Oy, Sa Moy, Toumlam, Saravanh
 Attapeu                             Xayxetha, Sanxay, Phouvong, Sanamxay, Samakhixay
40.     The component financed 92 sub-projects in 86 villages to rehabilitate the damaged
agricultural infrastructure identified by the PDNA, as follows:
                     Sub-project completion of Component 3b (2010-2011)
 C3b type sub-projects           Number of sub-projects        Beneficiaries (HH)        Investments, $
 Irrigation (agriculture)             41 (45%)                       7,122              1,848,382 (60%)
 Public works                         23 (25%)                       4,261               737,993 (24%)
 Rural roads                              18                                                 634,397
 Bridges                                   2                                                  78,051
 Other                                     3                                                  25,545
 Water and sanitation                 17 (18%)                         5,810             329,931 (11%)
 Health                                8 (9%)                          2,274              126,408 (4%)
 Education                             3 (3%)                          1,041              61,808 (2%)
 Total                                    92                          20,508                3,104,522
                     Source: Engineer Division, Provincial Staff, PRF, November 2014.
41.     The sub-projects included 41 irrigation sub-projects, 23 public work sub-projects, 17 water
supply sub-projects as well as 8 health sub-projects and 3 education sub-projects. The 41 irrigation
sub-projects rehabilitated irrigation perimeters damaged by Ketsana, increasing the irrigable area
by 1,017 ha (3,749 ha after rehabilitation against 2,732 ha before) and allowed 7,122 household to
restore their production to pre-Ketsana levels. The other community infrastructure sub-projects
(including the rehabilitation of 154 km of rural roads) benefitted 13,384 households. With a few
villages benefitting from more than one subproject, it can be estimated that a total of 18,000
households (about 94,000 people) benefitted from the component’s sub-projects in in 86 villages.
Regular sample checks at village level during project implementation and the findings of the 2014
Technical Audit Report confirmed that the sub-projects were those identified by the PDNA and
that implementation was satisfactory in spite of the sometime difficult working conditions due to
the remoteness of some of the communities. The findings of the Technical Audit Report about
Component 3b sub-projects were positive, similar to those presented above for sub-projects under
Component 3a. They also confirmed the satisfaction of communities.
Component 4: Project Coordination and Management ($1.31 million, 9 percent of the project
            cost)
42.     The component, under the responsibility of the National Coordination Office (NCO)
established within MAF’s DOP, financed activities related to the overall coordination of the
project, including technical assistance and incremental operating expenditures to support
procurement, financial management, management of safeguards issues, internal and external
auditing and the establishment of M&E system specifically designed for the project.
43.     The project team met most agreed targets. The NCO was well staffed and provided very
strong and focused guidance and support to the various implementing agencies. Project’s activities
were monitored closely and implementation issues and potential risks (environmental, social)
efficiently addressed. Although the Project Steering Committee did not meet regularly, a very

                                                   33
efficient, informal coordination mechanism was established between the NCO and the Heads of
implementing agencies, which allowed to address implementation issues on an on-going basis.
The PSC did resolve issues quickly when key issues were raised at its level (such as the need to
improve coordination between implementing agencies at the beginning of the project and to
restructure the project in two occasions).
44.     Safeguards. Project financed activities did not cause significant negative environmental or
social impacts. The project did not procure pesticides and it promoted IPM through farmers’
trainings, bio-compost production and application for soil management techniques. No major
concerns were raised by farmers during project implementation and ethnic preferences and
concerns were taken into account in the planning and implementing the project activities.
According to the M&E System disaggregated data on farmers’ participation in rice seed
multiplication and extension demonstration activities, participation by ethnic farmers in project’s
rice seed multiplication and extension demonstration activities was consistent with the share of
these groups in target Districts’ populations. The technical audit of small infrastructures realized
under Component 3 undertaken in 2014 confirmed that there were no adverse environmental
impacts and no resettlement. No problems were observed concerning the Unexploded Ordinances’
clearance.
45.     The Financial Management of the project, rated Moderately Satisfactory during the entire
project period, was upgraded to Satisfactory during the last supervision mission. The project met
all FM covenants of the Financing Agreement, and FM arrangements complied with the World
Bank’s requirements per OP/BP 10.02. One of the notable achievements of the project was the
opening, in 2013, of district accounts in six of the project districts (for Component 2) to facilitate
flow of funds for the implementation of extension and seed multiplication activities to pilot
Government decentralization policy. This pilot was successful and this arrangement will be
gradually scaled up by MAF to all the districts of the country.
46.     The Procurement Management of the project is rated Satisfactory. There were no major
issues regarding compliance with procurement policy and guidelines. The procurement plan was
regularly updated. Two minor issues -- the procurement of small animals under component 2b and
the eligibility of some expenditures claimed by the DOI for irrigation rehabilitation sub-projects
under Component 3b -- were resolved satisfactorily.
47.     The well-functioning M&E system was built during the project implementation. It included
detailed inputs and outputs data collected by NAFRI and NAFES staff at Provincial and District
levels and by PRF’s existing M&E system. Data was collected quarterly, supplemented twice a
year at harvest time by a short questionnaire requested from a random sample of (about 350)
households and focusing on areas planted, yields, tracking input usage (in particular improved
seeds), and adoption of improved agricultural practices. During implementation, the results
framework was improved through more clear definition of some indicators through the project
restructuring and the addition of core sector indicators as they became available. Monitoring of
indicators was complemented by impact evaluation. The baseline survey, undertaken by an
externally recruited firm, was completed in 2011. The same firm then undertook the 2012, 2013
and 2014 (final) benchmark surveys. The M&E officer was responsible for maintaining the
database, carrying out data analysis, and preparing quarterly progress reports.
48.    The overall M&E is rated as Moderately Satisfactory as initial weaknesses were addressed
during implementation. The progress reports were submitted in time to the World Bank and they

                                                 34
were of high quality. Data was collected and analyzed in a timely fashion, allowing project
management to plan and monitor project implementation and progress. The quality of the analysis
and reporting was good, gradually improving throughout the life of the project. It produced
detailed and useful information for project management and monitoring by NCO and the World
Bank. The baseline survey provided a reasonably good basis for evaluating project impact. The
three successive benchmark surveys, covering six crop cycles (from the dry season 2011/12 to wet
season 2014), were of good quality and provided data to adequately assess project’s impacts. This
data was subsequently extensively used for the preparation of GOL’s and the World Bank’s
Implementation Completing Reports.




                                               35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Introduction
1.      The assessment of the project efficiency includes three aspects: (i) speed and efficiency of
emergency assistance as this was emergency project; (ii) cost effectiveness of community
infrastructure delivery; and (iii) other gains not realized by the project closure but having lasting
impacts.
I.        Emergency assistance (Component 2b)
2.      The audit of activities under Component 2b indicated that most beneficiaries identified by
the post-Ketsana PDNA had received the required inputs. The cost of inputs distributed (seeds,
livestock) distributed to beneficiaries under Component 2b represented 86 percent of total cost of
activities under the component, and overheads (equipment and non-salary direct operating costs)
about 14 percent. Although these overheads do not include the salaries of MAF staff involved in
the delivery, it this appears that the delivery of emergency assistance appears to have been
efficient.
II.       Community Infrastructure under Components 3a and 3b
3.     No estimate of financial or economic analysis was included in the EPP for these activities.
The following comments can be made on the basis of the findings of the technical audit:
         PRF intermediation costs were acceptable. The costs of sub-projects amounted to
          respectively 91 percent and 81 percent of the sub-components 3a and 3b total cost. The
          lower intermediation cost under the sub-component 3a is due to the fact that PRF used its
          standard approach and field staff for the selection and implementation of sub-projects
          while sub-projects under the sub-component 3b had to be implemented using fast-track
          procedures and required additional staff to be deployed in areas where PRF was not
          normally operating.
         The cost and technical quality of sub-projects appears reasonable. According to the
          technical audit, 87 percent of beneficiaries at the village level thought that investment
          costs were reasonable. Actual costs were systematically below the standard costs used for
          budgeting purposes. The comparisons made by the Technical Audit indicate that for two-
          thirds of the sub-projects in the sample, the cost was below that of the cost of similar
          projects in Lao PDR, the remaining third having a higher cost, most of them being located
          in remote locations of the Attapeu province. Although this analysis should be taken with
          some caution, in view of the small number of sub-projects in the sample (16) and the
          difficulty in obtaining reliable data, it seems reasonable to conclude that PRF’s
          management of sub-projects was cost efficient. The overall quality of irrigation sub-
          projects (design, quality of material or operation and maintenance) was found to be
          satisfactory or moderately satisfactory (11 out of 16 sub-projects, 69 percent), while the
          quality of pasture fencing sub-projects was less satisfactory largely because poor O&M
          arrangements.




                                                 36
                           Cost effectiveness (actual cost/cost of comparator)
 No.       Sub-project description                                 Province               Cost effectiveness (%)
 1         Concrete weir construction                                LNT                            31
 2         Canal rehabilitation                                      LNT                            13
 3         Concrete weir construction                                LNT                            10
 4         Concrete weir construction and canal                       HP                            -7
           improvement
 5         Concrete weir construction                                  HP                             -5
 6         Concrete weir construction                                 XKH                             44
 7         Spin water rehabilitation                                  SVK                             31
 8         Weir rehabilitation and canal construction                 SLV                             60
 9         Rock masonry canal rehabilitation and                      SLV                            -48
           extension
 10        Rock masonry canal rehabilitation and                      SLV                             52
           extension
 11        Canal rehabilitation                                       XK                              26
 12        Steel pipe and canal rehabilitation                        XK                              20
 13        Concrete weir improvement                                  ATP                            -92
 14        Rock masonry canal extension                               ATP                            -28
 15        Canal rehabilitation                                       ATP                            -35
 16        Brick canal extension                                      ATP


           Financial Rates of Return. The Technical Audit assessed the financial rates of return for
            irrigation sub-projects and the table in Appendix 1 presents the FRR for 15 irrigation
            projects. It indicates that 11 sub-projects had a high FRR (above 20 percent) and 4 had
            negative FRRs (all concerning weir rehabilitation which had very high costs compared to
            the resulting irrigated area)36.
III.       Longer-Term Gains
4.     The short implementation period of the project did not allow realization of some important
gains by the end of the project, but they have potentially large lasting effects. For example,
information on adoption of various extension technologies and rates of return to the use of different
seed technologies and seed multiplication provide the unique information to MAF for design of
the next generation extension programs. Such an information was not available before37.
5.      For example, it was estimated that the average revenue per day of labor provided by the
three technologies varies relatively little: from about $5.0/day for the traditional method and the
simple use of R3 to $6.5/day for the use of R3 and fertilizer38. The return per incremental day of


36
   The results of this analysis have to be considered carefully since accurate information was difficult to obtain and
the evaluation implied a lot of assumptions (crops cultivated, yields and irrigation intensity) since the sub-projects had
just been recently completed.
37
   In addition, the establishment of the Gene Bank has enabled the country to ensure the preservation and storage of
more than 13,000 traditional and improved varieties of rice and to enhance food security through improved protection
of country’s rice gene diversity. And the strengthened capacity of MAF for seed quality control increased farmers
trust in the value of good seeds in the country.
38
   Using the average exchange rate of 8,230 Kips per $.

                                                           37
labor for switching to simply using R3 without fertilizer is lower than the average return under the
traditional technique ($4.8/day39), but significantly higher for switching to using R3 and fertilizer
($7.5/day). The return per incremental day of labor for using fertilizer is very high, for switching
from traditional to using R3 plus fertilizer ($11.1/day) , and even higher for switching from simply
using R3 to using R3 plus fertilizer ($17.4/day).
 Net revenue and return per day of labor under traditional production using R3 and using
                                 both R3 and fertilizer
                                                   Traditional               R3                   R3+
     Yield                        Kg/ha               2,500                 3,000                4,500
     Revenue                      Kips/ha           5,000,000             6,000,000            9,000,000
     Input cost                   Kips/ha            470,000               700,000             1,910,000
     Net revenue                  Kips/ha           4,530,000             5,300,000            8,090,000
     Incremental revenue:         Kips/ha
        R3/traditional                                                    770,00                  -
        R3+/traditional                                                                       3,560,000
        R3+/R3                                                               -                2,790,000
     Labor                         Days                110                  130                   150
     Average revenue/day           Kips               41,180               40,770               53,930
     Revenue/additional day        Kips
        R3/traditional
        R3+/traditional                                                   38,500                89,000
        R3+/R3                                                                                 139,500



6.      These results show that the best impact of using improved varieties is when combined with
adequate applications of fertilizers. Yet given that there was little interest of upland farmers to
higher fertilizer use promoted by the project, the extension services would need to better
understand farmers’ constraints in using seeds in combination with fertilizers to achieve high rates
of return to seed promotion programs in the future. In remote areas with high fertilizer prices and
low rice prices, the use of traditional seed varieties actually makes economic sense. The analysis
indicates that the return per day of labor is much more sensitive to an increase in farm-gate price
than to a reduction of the cost of R3, for example through a subsidy, and thus illustrates the
importance to customize extension programs to the needs of different areas in the short run and
invest in better connectivity and relax trade policy to accelerate adoption of new, productivity
enhancing technologies in the longer run.




39
  A return which is lower than the generally prevailing wage rate estimated at between Kips 40,000/day and Kips
60,000/day depending on the period ($5.00-7.5).

                                                      38
Appendix 1: Financial rates of return of irrigation sub-projects




                                             39
Annex 4. World Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes



(a) Task Team Members
    (b) Name                  Title/Specialization        Unit    Remarks
Lending
Patchamuthu Illangovan        Sector Manager              EASRE   At the appraisal
Roch Levesque                 Senior Counsel              LEGAM
Kanathee Danaisawat           Financial Manager           EAPCO
Nipa Siribuddhamas            Financial Management        EAPCO
                              Specialist
Chinnakorn Chantra            Procurement Specialist      EAPCO
Paavo Eliste                  Task Team Leader from       EASRE
                              negotiations
Richard Chisholm              Senior Agriculture          EASRE
                              Specialist and TTL until
                              negotiations
Chanhsom Manythong            Rural Dev Specialist        EASRE
Viengkeo Phetnavongxay        Environmental Specialist    EASRE
Sybounheung Phandanouvong     Social Development          EASRE
                              Specialist
Guzman Garcia-Rivero          Consultant                  EASRE
Stephani Anne Kuttner         Consultant                  EASRE
Bong Lee                      Program Assistant           EACLF
Implementation Support/ICR
Paavo Eliste                  Task Team Leader            GFADR
Sergiy Zorya                  ICR Task Team Leader        GFADR   ICR Co-Author
Chanhsom Manythong            Rural Dev Specialist        GFADR
Jacqueline Rodriguez Garcia   Consultant
Michael Colegrove             Seed Sector Specialist,
                              Consultant
Nuno Santos                   M&E Specialist, FAO
Helene Carlson Rex            Senior Social Development
                              Specialist, PRF co-TTL
Ingo Wiederhofer              Lead Social Development
                              Specialist, PRF TTL
Jean-Paul Chausse             Consultant                  GFADR   ICR Co-author
Siriphone Vanitsaveth         Financial Management        GGODR
                              Specialist
Christopher Fabling           Senior Financial            GGODR
                              Management Specialist
Malarak Souksavat             Financial Management        GGODR
                              Analyst
Khampet Chanvongnaraz         Procurement Specialist      GGODR
Viengkeo Phetnavongxay        Environmental Specialist    GSURR

                                          40
 Sybounheung Phandanouvong    Social Development        GSURR
                              Specialist
 Bong Lee                     Program Assistant         EACLF
 Vatthana Singharaj           Program Assistant         EACLF




(c) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle           No. of staff weeks        $ thousand (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
 FY10                                    7.10                        70.3
 Implementation Support/ICR
 FY11                                    27.6                       74.2
 FY12                                    32.7                       88.7
 FY13                                    24.2                       89.8
 FY14                                    24.6                       73.7
 FY15                                    23.2                       55.7
 Total                                   139.3                      452.4




                                         41
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                 42
43
44
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments from the European Commission

1.      The Project was co-financed by the European Union in the amount of Euro 3,360,000 in
response to uplands food insecurity, global economic crisis and emergency after the Ketsana
Cyclone. The project was implemented by Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and by the Poverty
Reduction Fund established under the Prime Minister’s Office. The project was declared effective
on August 30, 2010 and closed on December 31, 2014. The EU grant was closed on December 31,
2011 and had a major emphasis on rehabilitation of affected areas of Ketsana and support to
strengthening of public stations to product quality seeds. The area affected by the Ketsana Cyclone
can be defined as a “protracted crisis” area, namely the uplands. In fact, the poor communities in
the uplands of Laos face recurrent rice shortages for 3-4 months or more of the year, especially in
the mid to late wet season, the reason being that increases in rice yields and total production are
not matching population growth rate.
2.       Expected outputs of the project were to: (i) improve availability and quality of rice seed;
(ii) increase agricultural productivity by improving the use of new technologies (mainly quality
seeds and improved farming techniques); (iii) establish village development groups to promote
community development efforts at the grassroots level; and (iv) restore livelihoods of Ketsana
affected households.
3.      Despite the start-up delay, project has been doing well compared to its original schedule.
As of January 2012, the time of the closure of the EU grant, the project rehabilitated four major
public seed stations to improve their capacity to produce quality rice seed that will strengthen
capacity of the station to produce quality of seed and support overall national food security and
project farmer groups. In addition, two out of four conservation centers were rehabilitating and
conservation agriculture demonstrations were implemented, minimum tillage cultivation was
introduced and expected to scale up with various techniques in the coming seasons.
4.      As the core of the project, rice seed production technology was introduced to ten farmer
groups in rural upland districts across five provinces for seed multiplication in 2011 involving of
200 households and had initiated producing more than 150 tons in 2011 and expect to double in
the 2012. The introduction of seed technology was key factor that would impact overall
improvement of food security both in short term and long term. In combination with the seed
multiplication, extension of improved rice production techniques was carried out involving many
households and was scaled up to 4,000 by the end of the project in 2014. The project provided
agriculture emergency assistance to about 20,000 Ketsana Cyclone affected farmers, including
11,628 households receiving farm inputs, 7,500 households benefitting from livestock vaccination,
and 18,000 households benefitting from infrastructure rehabilitation in all affected provinces. The
project supported 418 infrastructural subprojects by December 2014, up from 315 projects by the
closure of the EU grant.
5.      Thus the project, while focusing on the immediate emergency needs of the target
populations most affected by the cyclone, undertook targeted actions to improve the resilience and
livelihood of poor upland communities in the provinces of Luang Namtha, Xiengkhouang,
Houaphan, Savannakhet and Xekong. The project aimed at reducing their vulnerability to future
shocks through the introduction of improved, more sustainable technologies and farming systems.

                                                45
As such, the project served as a pilot for the development of a sustainable rice-based but diversified
farming system for all Lao upland areas.
6.     As per provisions of the Administration Agreement between the World Bank and EU, the
current report, as well as the financial information, covers the entire Project described in the
Administration Agreement regardless of the fact that it is not entirely financed by the EU grant.




                                                 46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
GOL                      National Growth and Poverty              June         2004
                         Elimination Strategy
World Bank               The Country Partnership Strategy for     March        2005
                         the Lao PDR
WFP                      Comprehensive Food Security and          June         2007
                         Vulnerability Analysis
GOL                      Lao Household Expenditure and            September    2008
                         Consumption Survey
GOL/PRF                  PRF II Manual of Operations              May          2010
World Bank               Emergency Project Paper                  April        2010
World Bank               Financing Agreement                      June         2010
World Bank/EU            Grant Agreement                          June         2010
World Bank/PRF           Project Agreement                        June         2010
GOL/MAF                  Agricultural Strategy 2011-2015          September    2010
GOL/MAF                  Project Implementation Manual            October      2010
World Bank               (First) Project Restructuring Paper      May          2011
EU                       Evaluation Report of the EU Trust Fund   May          2012
                         under LUFSIP
World Bank               Rice Policy Study                        October      2012
GOL/Community and        Project Baseline Survey                  January      2012
Environmental Services
Ltd.
GOL/Community and        Project Baseline Survey                  May          2013
Environmental Services
Ltd.
World Bank               (Second) Project Restructuring Paper     May          2013
GOL/Community and        Project Baseline Survey                  May          2014
Environmental Services
Ltd.

World Bank               Aide Memoires of the Project                     2010-2014
                         Implementation Support Missions
World Bank               Project Status and Results Reports             2010-2014
GOL/MAF                  Project Quarterly Reports                      2010-2014
GOL/PRF/LAO-ASIE         PRF Technical Audit Report               January     2015
Consultants Group
GOL/Community and        Impact Assessment Study                  February     2015
Environmental Services
Ltd.
GOL/MAF                  Project Completion Report                March        2015




                                           47
The Map of the Project Areas




                               48
