OFF K I A&0 2 AUG 2013
,ocU        *-. RECEIVED
The World Bank                                  301h Floor, Siam Tower      Telephone: (66) 0 26868300
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  989 Rama I Road, Pathumwan  Facsimlle: (66) 0 26868301
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           Bangkok 10330, Thailand     www.worldbank.org.th
June 7, 2013
H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
23 Singha Road
Vientiane, Lao PDR
Excellency:
Re: LAO PDR UPLAND FOOD SECURITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
fIDA GRANT H561-LA) - Amendments to the Financing Agreement
We refer to your letter dated May 8, 2013 requesting the International
Development Association ("Association") to consider: (i) the reallocation of funds
between the expenditure categories; (ii) some amendments to the Financing Agreement
for the Laos Upland Food Security Improvement Project dated June 4, 2010, as amended
on June 6, 2011 ("the Agreement"); and (iii) some amendments to the Supplemental
Letter 2 on Performance indicators between Lao People's Democratic Republic and the
Association for the above mentioned project dated June 4, 2010 ("Supplemental Letter
2"). We also refer to discussions between the Association and the Implementing Agency
(Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry) during the project Mid-term Review in May 2012
and October 2012 implementation support missions.
We are pleased to inform you that after due consideration, the Association agrees
to amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
1. Reallocation of IDA Funds for Expenditure Categories. The funds provided by the
Association under the Agreement will be reallocated as follows: (i) SDR 360,713 from
Category 2 to Category 1; (ii) SDR 108,853 from Category 2 to Category 3; and (iii)
SDR 50,983 from Category 4 to Category 3. For more clarity, the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is replaced by the table in Attachment I to this Letter of
Amendments.


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong     -2-                          June 7, 2013
2. Amendments to the Financing Agreement:
1. Part 1.1.(c) of Schedule I to the Agreement is replaced by the following:
"(c) Upgrading of soils and seed quality control laboratories, and training of
NAFRI's and DOA's staff in the fields of safe and efficient use of said
laboratories, and conducting related soil and seed quality control activities in
proiect provinces";
2. Part 1.1. of Schedule I to the Agreement is amended by inserting the following
sub-paragraph (d) immediately after sub-paragraph (c):
"(d) Construction of the NAFRI gene bank and provision of related goods and
materials for seed gene storage".
3. The Appendix to the Agreement is amended by replacing the definition of
Incremental Operating Costs by the following:
""Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable expenditures directly related to
the Project, incurred by the Recipient or the PRF (which expenditures would not
have been incurred absent the Project), including inter alia, expenditures for
Project staff travel, lodging and per diem, consumable materials, office supplies,
communication services (including postage handling, telephone and internet
costs), publication services, translation services, office space rental and utilities,
maintenance of office equipment and operation, operation and maintenance of
vehicles, day labor wages and other input costs for seed production by NAFRI
under Part I of the Project, reasonable operational costs related to seed quality
control activities by DOA under Part I of the Project, reasonable costs directly
related to the production by Veterinary Supply Unit and delivery of vaccines for
livestock and small ruminants, including related locally manufactured drugs and
instruments required for administering the vaccinations, by Department of
Livestock and Fisheries under Part 2 of the Project, but excluding civil services
salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil service."


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong      -3-                          June 7, 2013
3. Amendment to Supplemental Letter 2
The Annex to the Supplemental Letter 2 is replaced by the table in Attachment 2 to this
Letter of Amendments.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the
enclosed copy of this Letter of Amendments and returning one signed original copy of
this letter for our files.
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO TION
By                         h
/Authorized Representative
Alassane Sow
Acting Country Director, Lao PDR
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Namehouphet KHAMPHOUNVONO
Title
Date


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong     -4-                         June 7, 2013
Attachment 1
Category               Amount of the Grant      Percentage of
Allocated         Expenditures to be
(expressed in SDR)        Financed
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, Works, Consultants'         3,301,119               100%
Services, Incremental Operating
Costs and Training and Workshops
under Part 1, Part 2.1, Part 3.1(b)
and Part 4 of the Project.
(2) Goods, Works, Consultants'          1,080,434              100%
Services, Incremental Operating
Costs and Training and Workshops
under Part 2.2, and Part 3.2(b) of the
Project
(3) Sub-grants under Part 3.1(a) of     1,319,836              100%
the Project.
(4) Sub-grants under Part3.2 (a) of     898,611                100%
the Project.
TOTAL AMOUNT                           6,600,000


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong     -5-                          June 7, 2013
Attachment 2
ANNEX TO SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER 2
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The PDO are to: (i) contribute to improved food  Increase in rice yields in beneficiary farmer
security of rural households in selected poor villages in  groups by twenty percent (20%) compared to
upland areas of Project Provinces by demonstrating and  the baseline.
implementing improved rice-based farming systems;
and (ii) address recovery needs of cyclone-affected
households in the Xekong, Saravane and Attapeu
provinces.
Part 1. Improvements in the capacity of the public  Production of incremental annual volume of
sector (research centers and seed multiplication  quality seed (RI and R2 seed) of at least 120
stations) to sustainably produce larger quantities of high tons from centers supported under the project
quality seed (breeder, foundation and registered seed)  above the baseline of 456 tons with the end of
according to demand.                             the project production target of576 tons
Part 2 (a). Establishment of a system of seed    Rice production of participating farmers in
multiplication by small farmers' groups based on the  seed producer groups increase by at least
use of demonstrated modern high yield technical  fifteen (15%) compared to baseline.
packages.                                       At least 2, 000 farmers reached by extension
activities and out of which 25% adopted
improved techniques at the end of the project
Part 2 (b). Requirements for wet and dry season  Sample checks at village level confirm that
agricultural inputs and minor irrigation infrastructure  inputs reach target beneficiaries.
repairs and medium recovery needs met for the priority
cyclone affected districts in Xekong, Attapeu and
Saravane Provinces.
Part 3 (a). Beneficiaries at village level in selected  Number of villages benefiting from
districts of Houaphan, Luang Namtha, Xiengkhouang,  agriculture-related community sub-projects
Xekong and Savannakhet have increased access to  delivered through PRF participatory
infrastructure and increased capacity to improve  approaches.
agricultural livelihoods and food security.
Part 3 (b). Requirements for assistance in restoring  Sample checks at village level confirm that
livelihood-related rural infrastructure among villages  inputs reach target beneficiaries.
in cyclone-affected districts in Attapeu, Xekong and
Saravane Provinces met, using Sub-grants and
participatory approaches.
Part 4. Establishment of a system of project     MAF project management team operational
management and Monitoring and Evaluation in MAF  and staffed staff experienced fiduciary and
which would contribute for longer term development of  technical specialists.
a sustainable upland agriculture based livelihood
systems.,


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong    -6-                         June 7, 2013
cc:   H.E. Mr. Vilayvanh Phomkhe
Minister
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Dr. Phouang Parisak Pravongvienkham
Vice Minister
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Mme. Thipphakone Chanthavongsa
Director General
Department of External Finance
Ministry of Finance
Mme. Sisomboun Ounavong
Acting Director General
Department of International Cooperation
Ministry of Planning and Investment
Dr. Bounthong Bouahom,
Director General, National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Vientiane, Lao People's Democratic Republic
Mame, Khamvay Nanthavong
National Project Director, LUFSIP, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Mr. Sundaran Annamalai
Executive Director for Lao PDR, World Bank


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong           -7-                               June 7, 2013
Cleared with and cc: Messrs./Mmes. Levesque (LEGAM); Shen (CTRLN); .M. Fraser (EASTS);
Distribution: Messrs./Mmes.   Sennhauser (EASOS); Dixon, Chikosi (EACTF); Miwa (EACLF);
Sirithirath (EACLF); lonata (EACSQ); Abushakra, Cato (LEGAM); Roome, (EASSD) Shuker, Labaste
(EASER); TACT; CTRLD, CTRLN MANILA
Task Team: Messrs./Mmes.     Eliste; Manythong; Unkulvasapaul; Phetnavongxay; Phandanouvong
(EASTS); Chanvongnaraz (EAPPR); Fabling; Siribuddhamas, (EAPFM), Lee(EACLF).


