Document of                    fILE COPY
The World Bank                                C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3220-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL-SCALE MINING
February 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL-SCALE MINING
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Dirham (DH)
DR 1.00                      US$0.19
US$1.00                      DH 5.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                            British/US System
1 meter (m)                              3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.622 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                          2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                         1.1 short ton (st)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMCE    - Banque Marocaine du Commerce Extgrieur
BRPM    - Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
CADETAF - Centrale d'Achat et de Developpement de la Region Miniere
du Tafilalet et de.Figuig
ENIM    - Ecole Nationale de l'Industrie Minerale
EPP     - European Producer Price
LME     - London Metal Exchange
HEM     - Ministry of Energy and Mines
PZ      - Plomb de Zellidja
tpy     - tons per year



- i                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE MINING
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Kingdom of Morocco
Beneficiary:        Centrale d'Achat et de Developpement de la Region Miniere
du Tafilalet et de Figuig (CADETAF).
Amcunt:             US$9.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Amortization in 17 years including four years of grace,
at an interest rate of 11.6% per annum.
Relending
Terms:            The Government would onlend the Bank loan to CADETAF on
the same terms. About $1.7 million of the Loan would be
made available by CADETAF as credit in kind to
beneficiary miners or miners'associations, to be repaid
over 5 years with one year of grace, at an interest rate
of 12% per annum. The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk.
Pro ject
Description:      The project would increase the production of lead and
zinc concentrates, thus generating foreign exchange
earnings, by: permitting the mining and processing of
low-grade ores; facilitating the marketing of high-grade
ores; and promoting increased production in selected
mines. The financial, technical and administrative base
of CADETAF would be strengthened, so that it can improve
and expand its services to artisanal miners, and lay the
basis for future expansion of small-scale mining
activities.
The project consists of: (a) acquisition by CADETAF of
mobile lead and zinc concentrators, and of a crushing and
grinding unit; (b) provision to miners against credit of
mining equipment and works; (c) establishment of a
training mine; (d) establishment of ore collector centers
and provision of equipment to CADETAF; (e) development of
CADETAF's financial and management systems and of its
financial organization; and (f) execution of geological
and socio-economic studies.
The beneficiaries of the project would be about 7,500
self-employed artisanal miners with average incomes now
close to the absolute rural poverty level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Since the miners have a high price elasticity of supply
and their response to the measures introduced under the
project cannot be reliably predicted, constituting a
major project risk, the project was designed as a pilot
phase, to test the miners' response to the new equipment,
services and policies introduced lunder the project. A
number of measures would also be implemented under the
project to stabilize CADETAF's financial position and
reduce its vulnerability to sudden declines in metal
prices or mining production.
Estimated Cost:l/
Local      Foreign      Total
Item                                  -------US$ Million---------
Lead concentrator                       0.59         1.51       2.10
Zinc concentrator                       0.32         0.86       1.18
Crushing and grinding unit             0.11          0.23       0.34
Financing for mining
equipment and works                  0.44          1.37       1.81
Training mine                           0.03         0.08       0.11
Ore collection centers                  0.38         0.15       0.53
Equipment for CADETAF                   0.07         0.21       0.28
Technical assistance                    0.18         0.18       0.36
Geological and socio-econ. studies  0.89             0.90       1.79
Working capital                         1.97          --        1.97
Base cost                        4.98         5.49      10.47
Physical contingencies                  0.20         0.47       0.67
Price contingencies                     0.52         1.20       1.72
Total project cost                      5.70         7.16      12.86
Interest during construction               -         2.34       2.34
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED         5.70         9.50      15.20
Financing Plan                        Local       Foreign      Total
----------US$ Million--------…
Government contribution
to CADETAF                           5.1            -         5.1
Bank loan                                -           9.5        9.5
CADETAF internal cash generation    0.6               -         0.6
5.7          9.5       15.2
1/ Includes taxes of $0.92 million.



- 112 -
Estimated                       Bank FY         1983      1984       1985      1986
Disbursement                                 ----------US$ Million----------
Annual             1.35      4.64       2.19      1.32
Cumulative         1.35      5.99       8.18      9.50
Rate of Return:   32%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3393-MOR of February 26,1982






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
SMALL-SCALE MINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$9.5 million to help finance
a pilot project for small-scale mining. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The
Government would onlend the proceeds of the loan on the same terms to the
Centrale d'Achat et de Developpement de la Region Miniere du Tafilalet et de
Figuig (CADETAF).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A mission to review Morocco's Five
Year Plan (1981-85) and development prospects was in the field in December
1981. Country and Economic Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
largest and most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
phosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amounts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the country's energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.        During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco.  GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 Development Plan as the economy derived substantial momentum
from exports.  However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small
externally financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share
of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with
no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report No.
P-3176-MOR of December 10, 1981 on a proposed Middle Atlas - Central
Area - Agriculture Development Project.



- 2 -
force was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural
sector, and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise
exports, with phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The 1973-77
Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as well as an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the original plan
strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings effort and the
development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled. As a result of this
windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and budgetary receipts rose
by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the petroleum import bill also
quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in
surplus. The plan's concern for exports and savings lost some of its urgency,
and the Government launched a massive public investment program which brought
about a sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy and a
considerable increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share
in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was led
by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern of
investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure mere than the
productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry, agriculture
and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize import
substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created strong
pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget. While
investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977,
gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of GDP in
1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in 1976-77. The
large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20%
of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed
heavily from the international capital market, which led to rapid increases in
external debt and the debt service burden. By the end of 1977, external debt
outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of
exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977, and 18.5% in 1978.



- 3 -
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Total
budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977, in
response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large scale
public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase in
defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara, and
the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs (particularly
education). As a result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased
sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977. The
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the period led to
some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was largely allowed
to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 12% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Since then,
bhowever, the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles,
including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on
the commercial debt.  In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation
of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. Although the economy
continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by 1980 both fiscal and
external imbalances were still substantial. The resource gap (in current
prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio of the overall budget
deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
cdropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
accelerated to 16% in 1979 and 22% in 1980.



- 4 -
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a significant
boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus, despite a large
increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400 million in 1977 to
$1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest payments by about
$350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account deficit was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed considerably during the
period. However, the absolute level of gross external capital requirements
rose because of growing amortization payments on medium-term commercial
credits contracted earlier and the rise in the interest rate on these credits
in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to 4% in 1978-80. The adverse impact of the stabilization
program on employment has probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid
-ate of employment creation during 1973-77.  On the whole, the demand
mnanagement policies followed since 1978 have had a high cost in terms of
growth and employment and appear to have been only partly successful in their
short-term stabilization objectives.   These results brought out the urgent
<'>ed to address adequately the long-term structural weaknesses which are at
the root of the continuing financial imbalances in the Moroccan economy, and
which nust be corrected if an acceptable rate of economic growth is to be
&2hieved over the medium term without unsustainable external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl  of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and spreading
the benefits of growth more widely.  The main objectives are to achieve a
significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in the
elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and the
employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such changes
would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



- 5 -
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
does not rise.
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.



- 6 -
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of locial communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and conmmrcial sources.  Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the I[F in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion). However, as Morocco did not satisfy performance
criteria at the end of July 1981, its purchases under the EFF were suspended
pending an understanding with the IMF. Discussions between the Government and
the IMF are now at an advanced stage for replacement of the EFF by a one-year
standby arrangement for 1982.
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.1 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.57 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits.  As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.8 billion annually in the early 1980s. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and
selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government
will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Limits on
commercial borrowing are to be incorporated in the framework of the standby
arrangement with the IMF, and efforts should be continued to seek loans on
softer terms.



- 7 -
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 7 percent. The share of the Bank Group
in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and
6 percent in 1980. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are projected at about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 50 projects,
financing a total of $1,833.1 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,379 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $31.2 million ($17.1 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA
projects. In some cases delays in project implementation have been caused
by management problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall
performance in project execution has been improving and is satisfactory.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 percent each of total
commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16 percent), tourism
(9 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6 percent), energy (3 percent)
and urban development (3 percent). While limited as regards the transfer of
resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 2.2 percent
of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the main
objectives of Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen
development institutions, provide technical assistance, especially for
project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, in recent years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives:  to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the
dLelivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; to increase employment and improve
income distribution; and to bring about structural adjustment.



- 8 -
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has eimphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives
to a less favorably endowed region and finances investments for agricultural
development, erosion control, forestry and livestoc]k. It should have a
significant poverty impact and address major issues in developing Morocco's
relatively densely populated but poorly endowed nountainous regions.  The
Middle Atlas Agriculture Development Project, just approved by the Board,
and the Forestry Project scheduled to be presented to the Board shortly,
address similar issues with particular emphasis on integrated agro-sylvo-
pastoral development and forestry rehabilitation.  Continued Bank support of
rainfed agriculture is expected to be provided through an integrated rural
development project in the Khemisset province, which is under preparation.
A fourth line of credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has
helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
(;nder preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and iproduction, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry. Projects are also under lpreparation for research
and extension, for irrigation rehabilitation,  and for development of small-
and medium-scale irrigation.
~7.     Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
Db creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
lourism. A ninth line of credit to Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
conomique (BNDE), incorporating a pilot component for export-oriented
Lndustries, as well as a second line of credit for small scale industries
-7th an emphasis on job creation have recently been approved by the Board.
A project focussing on the development of electro-mechanical industries is
reing prepared.  A fourth line of credit to Credit Inmmbilier et Hotelier
(CIH) for tourism projects was also recently approved by the Executive
Directors, in a sector which has contributed a substantial share of
Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided significant employment.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was approved by the Board in FY1981, which would
continue to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway
project approved in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance
efforts and a fourth project now being prepared would continue support for
maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred
smnall towns and villages. A third water supply project, recently approved,
will provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as
well as expand a pilot component initiated under the second project to
provide credit for house connections to low income urban families. In
addition, a project to strengthen the capacity of local conmunities to



- 9 -
prepare and implement their own development programs and provide financing
for such programs through the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being
prepared. It will not only help to widen the distribution of infrastructure
and services but will also support the Government's policy of encouraging
administrative decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. This would be
complemented by future projects in non-formal education and vocational
training. The Government's recent policy supporting primary health care
would be tested through a project currently being prepared as a first phase
in a nationwide program to reorganize medical and paramedical training,
health education, nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning
services, especially in rural areas.
30.      In order to aim at reducing the impact of the oil import burden on
the Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 to contribute to
the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum resources. An oil shale engineering project, the main
objective of which is to help Morocco identify the best course for
development of its oil resources, is expected to be presented to the Board
shortly. Additional projects for development of coal and hydropower
resources are under consideration.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the
public sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings,
would be reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under a possible
Structural Adjustment Loan which has been appraised. Negotiations for the
loan began in mid-1980, but were not completed by the time the release of
the second tranche of the IMF's EFF was postponed (see paragraph 20). The
government has requested resumption of negotiations; further progress would
depend on the IMF and the Bank reaching agreement with the Government and
may require reappraisal of the structural adjustment program.
PART III - THE SMALL-SCALE MINING SECTOR
The Mining Sector
32.      Mining is an important sector of the Moroccan economy, contributing
about 5% to GDP, but accounting for 35% of the value of Moroccan exports in
1979. Phosphates represent about 75% of sectoral GDP and account for 90% of
the sectoral export value. Lead is the most important of the non-phosphate
minerals; average production of 134,000 tons per year (tpy) (1974-1978), has
accounted for 4% of export value. Production of zinc averages 25,000 tpy,
representing only 0.5% of exports. Small-scale or artisanal mining



- 10 -
generally accounts for less than 10% of lead production, but about a quarter
of zinc production. Representing a little over 1% of the labor force,
mining employs about 40,000 workers in industrial mines, plus some 15,000
artisanal miners.
33.      The Government gives high priority in the 1981-85 Development Plan
to increasing resource-based, export-oriented activities and to improving
the distribution of income and infrastructure in disadvantaged regions; the
small-scale mining sector fits both criteria. The Bank has previously
supported activities in the phosphate sector through two loans totalling
$100 million (Loans 1017-MOR and 1625-MOR) to Maroc-Phosphore, a subsidiary
of the Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP), the state-owned company
responsible for mining, processing and marketing of phosphate rock, to
finance the construction of a plant for the production of phosphate
fertilizer inputs. IFC has made a $15.3 million investment in a copper
mining project (SOMIFER), sponsored by the Bureau de Recherches et de
Participations Miniares (BRPM). The project is progressing well.
34.      Small-scale mining activities are essentially confined to the
southeastern part of Morocco (see Map No IBRD 15548). The region is mostly
arid and, outside oases, has little agricultural or economic potential
except for mining. It is isolated from the richer urban and agricultural
centers of the northwest and central provinces by tlhe Atlas mountains, and
has been largely bypassed by previous development programs. Little social
or economic infrastructure serves the semi-nomadic population, which is
widely dispersed over some 48,000 sq.km.
35.      Small and irregular, but very rich lead and zinc deposits occur
throughout the southern Atlas region. In most cases, they are unsuited to
industrial mining and are exploited in about 1,600 small mines. Reserves
have not been explored systematically, but are estimated to be more than
sufficient to support projected expansion of mining over the next several
years. In the longer term, there is a need for systematic exploration and
analysis of lead and zinc potential in the region. The level of mining
output is presently limited by primitive mining practices and the lack of
basic mining equipment, which result in very low productivity. Most miners
work only with sledge hammers, hand winches, wheelbarrows and rudimentary
jigs and sluice boxes for upgrading the ore. Over 50% of the miners' time
is taken up in hoisting the ore out of the mine. The lack of mechanized
equipment also limits productivity due to the physically demanding nature of
the work in the mines; miners generally work for 4 weeks, then rest for one
week before returning to the mine. Production is further restricted by the
lack of beneficiation facilities that could process low-grade ores into
marketable concentrates. At present, lead and zinc ores can only be
purchased with a metal content of 30% and 35% respectively, whereas ore
grades of 4% or above would be viable for development if facilities for
further processing were available. Focus on high-grade ore alone also
distorts the rational exploitation of the mineral deposits.



- 11 -
36.      Mining is a full-time occupation for approximately 11,000 artisanal
miners; for another 4,000, it is part-tine and their participation is
conditioned by agricultural activities and by mineral price incentives.
About 50% of the miners work alone or in family groups; the other half have
organized themselves into three formal cooperatives or into several hundred
small miners' associations. In general, production by the self-employed
miners is highly price elastic, and has varied from a high of about 38,000
tpy in 1972-74 to less than 12,000 tons in 1978. Price and production
variations and the irregular working habits of the miners make it difficult
to estimate their average income; however, it is considered well below the
minimum agricultural wage ($690 per annum) and may be close to the
Bank-defined absolute rural poverty level of $238 per annum.
Sectoral Organization
37.      Non-phosphate mining activities are under the aegis of the Ministry
of Energy and Mines (MEM), which provides general guidance and supervision
through the Directorate of Mines and undertakes research, development and
operational activities through BRPM and its subsidiaries. University-level
training in mining is provided through the Ecole Nationale d'Industrie
Min6rale (ENIM), in Rabat. In 1960, following cessation of mining by
private foreign companies in the southeastern part of Morocco, the
Government created the Centrale d'Achat et de Developpement de la Region
Miniere de Tafilalet et de Figuig (CADETAF), an autonomous public agency
with a marketing monopoly for minerals - mainly lead and zinc - produced by
artisanal miners in the region now comprising Errachidia, Figuig and part of
Ouarzazate provinces. CADETAF provides a broad package of support services
to the miners, including: purchasing and marketing of ore; provision of
explosives, hand tools and transportation of ore to collection centers, at
cost; and supporting services free of charge such as calcination of zinc
o-re, boring of mine shafts and galleries, pumping of mines which extend
below the water table, geological surveys, maintenance of access roads,
basic medical services and insurance coverage. While mining rights in
traditional mining areas are issued by local tribal authorities, in new
mining areas, CADETAF issues mining permits. During the process, CADETAF
cooperates closely with the local authorities and the local representatives
of MEM to ensure that there are no conflicting claims. This system has
worked well.
38.      Lead and zinc ore marketing.  World consumption of lead and zinc
grew slowly in the 1970s as a result of the difficult economic conditions
following the 1973-74 oil price rise. Demand trends are expected to
strengthen however in the 1980s; lead consumption is projected to increase
at 1.8% annually and zinc consumption at 2.6% annually during 1980-90.
World prices for lead and zinc are generally based on the London Metal
Exchange (LME) price. The LME price is very sensitive to changes in supply
and demand and fluctuates considerably on an annual basis. On a long-term
trend basis, in real terms (1980 price level) future lead prices are
projected to remain constant and zinc prices to rise at an average annual
rate of 1.76 percent. These projections have been made on a conservative
basis because of the sensitivity of the project to the cyclical fluctuations
that will continue to occur.



- 12 -
39.      The artisanal production of lead and zinc ories is purchased by
CADETAF through regional collection centers. At present, miners receive a
price for their ore which is based on the previous month's LME price for
lead and European Producer Price (EPP) - which is closely related to the LME
price - for zinc, after deducting estimated crushing and smelting charges,
transportation costs, and taxes, as well as a witholding margin for CADETAF
amounting to 25% of the minehead price of ore. In the past, these
deductions have averaged 42% of the gross metal value. Lead ore is upgraded
through manual crushing and sorting into marketable concentrates, with about
60% metal content. The zinc ore is processed in two calcination facilities,
which yield concentrates of about 50% metal content. These concentrates are
trucked to the port of Kenitra-Mehdiya by the Office National des Transports
(ONT), from where they are exported to Europe. Shipments must accumulate
during 3 - 4 months in order to average 1,500 to 2,000 tons because of
vessel availability and customer specifications.  Payments to CADETAF are
based on the LME or EPP average price during the calendar month following
arrival at the destination port, a total lag of 5 - 6 months from the time
of purchase from the miners.
-O.      The lead and zinc concentrates have been marlketed by BRPM on behalf
-f CADETAF through annual contracts with European smelters. The market for
lead and zinc concentrates is such that they can always be sold, even in
periods of very low demand. Furthermore, CADETAF's concentrates are well
accepted because they are simple ores and comparatively easy to smelt.
Since 1981, CADETAF has sold  all of its lead concentrate to the lead
si.elter Plomb de Zellidja (PZ), located in northeastern Morocco. This
arrangement eliminates the need to accumulate large shipments and reduces
t-ansportation time, thus decreasing the lag between purchase and payment
r   reducing CADETAF's price risk and working capital requirements.
However, this advantage should not limit CADETAF's marketing option.
CADETAF will evaluate annually offers from various domestic and
international smelters for the purchase of lead concentrates and select the
most advantageous one. CADETAF will annually furnish information to the
Bank on the agreed sales agreements (Project Agreemenit, Section 2.07 (c)
(ii)). All prospective new customers for CADETAF's zinc require that the
ore be crushed to grains below 5 millimeters, a service previously performed
by CADETAF's main client for zinc which closed down in 1980. Since then
zinc ore has been stockpiled for about 6 months, untiL it could be
custom-crushed by several mines in the vicinity of CAD)ETAF. In order to
facilitate sale of the zinc ore, financing of a crushing and grinding unit
is proposed under the Project.
CADETAF's Management and Financial Situation
41.      CADETAF's revenues currently come from the 215% witholding margin
deducted from the minehead price of ore, which is allocated to cover
administrative costs (10%), inputs and supporting services for miners (10%)
and investment (5%). Since artisanal production fluctuates in response to
international metal prices, CADETAF's revenues, which are based on ore
purchases, vary considerably, whereas its operating excpenditures remain
relatively constant and generally exceed 10% of purchases. Moreover, the
lag between ore purchase and payment by smelters exposes CADETAF to a price
risk which further reduces CADETAF's revenues in times of declining mineral



- 13 -
prices. Between 1974 and 1979, ore purchases declined sharply, so that in
1976, for example, operating expenditures represented 80% of ore purchases.
Inadequate financial controls led to large operating losses and negative
cash flows, which severely strained CADETAF's liquidity position and
resulted in delays in payment to miners for ore and the suspension of
certain supporting services in 1978. In March 1979, after review of these
problems by an interministerial committee, CADETAF headquarters were
relocated from Rabat to Errachidia in the mining region, personnel costs
were reduced, accounting was improved.   CADETAF resources were also
supplemented by an interest-free Government advance of DH 2 million (about
US$0.4 million).  Higher metal prices in 1979 stimulated ore production and
helped eliminate CADETAF's deficit; nonetheless, CADETAF's financial
position remains vulnerable to sharp fluctuations in artisanal production or
metal prices. While CADETAF's bookkeeping system, under the control of a
Ministry of Finance auditor, is more tightly organized now, long-term
financial planning and the establishment and monitoring of financial
performance objectives are still lacking (see paragraph 54).
42.      Prior to the 1979 reorganization, CADETAF was managed from Rabat by
BRPM staff, who combined their CADETAF responsibilities with other
functions. The new management team works full-time for CADETAF in the
field, supervising the operation of 7 ore collection centers which also
serve as distribution centers for assistance and materials to miners, and
the two zinc calcination facilities. The Director General of CADETAF,
assisted by 3 technicians and an accountant, supervises about 250 permanent
staff. CADETAF's current management is competent and highly motivated and
has succeeded in providing services to the miners which were recommenced in
1981, but will need to be strengthened in order to carry out the expanded
operations planned under the proposed project.
43.      At present, CADETAF is under the administrative control of the MEM,
which also chairs its Board of Directors. The Board comprises representa-
tives of other concerned ministries, BRPM, the Governors of the three
concerned provinces, and the miners themselves, and nust approve CADETAF's
operating procedures and financial commitments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.      The project was identified in June 1979, and prepared by the
Government and CADETAF with the assistance of Bank missions. It was
appraised in December 1980.  Negotiations for the proposed loan took place
in December 1981. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Hassan Belkoura of
the Prime Minister's Office. The main features of the project are outlined
in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report; a
Supplementary Project Data sheet, Annex III, and Map No. IBRD 15548 are also
attached. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3393-MOR, dated February 26, 1982)
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
45.      Through the development of CADETAF, the proposed project is aimed
at increasing the production of lead and zinc concentrates for export, thus
generating foreign exchange earnings; and at increasing the relatively low
incomes of about 7,500 self-employed artisanal miners in an isolated rural
region in southeast Morocco (see map) which has limited development
potential. The miners' production response to varying prices and the new
equipment, services and procedures to be introduced under the project,
cannot be reliably predicted, and is the reason for its pilot nature. The
project will a) permit the mining and processing of low-grade lead and zinc
ores; b) facilitate the marketing of high grade ores; c) promote increased
productivity and production in selected mines; d) improve and expand the
services offered by CADETAF to artisanal miners; and e) increase knowledge
of the mineral potential of the region for future exploitation.
46.      The project consists of the following components: (a) acquisition
by CADETAF of nubile lead and zinc concentrators, and of a crushing and
grinding unit; (b) provision to miners against crediit of mining equipment
and works; (c) establishment of a training mine; (d) establishment of ore
collector centers and provision of equipment to CADETAF; (e) development of
CADETAF's financial and management systems and of its financial
organization; and (f) execution of geological and socio-economic studies.
47.      Mobile lead concentrator.  The proposed concentrator, with an
estimated productive life span of 15 years, would treat about 36,000 tpy of
low-grade lead ore (average metal content 10%) to produce concentrates of
67% lead content. The ore will first be treated by gravimetric separation,
then by flotation to ensure maxinum recovery of metal. The unit will
include a crushing and grinding section and a power generator. A mobile
plant has been chosen because a single location cannot ensure enough
production for continuous full-capacity utilization or equitable access by
all miners. The unit will thus rotate among eight locations during a
four-year cycle. Necessary staff would be trained by the supplier and
BRPM.
48.      To utilize the concentrator at full capacity, each location must
have accunulated about 16,000 tons of low-grade ore stocks prior to
start-up. This requires that CADETAF purchase and maintain stocks in the
various locations totalling about 63,000 tons. Until sufficient artisanal
production accumulates, CADETAF will utilize about 64,000 tons of existing
stocks of old mine tailings and rejects, totaling about 200-300,000 tons.
The tailings will also serve as back-up feed if artisanal production is
lower than expected. Abandoned by foreign companies in the 1950s, the
tailings are considered to belong to the Government who has permitted
CADETAF to use them free of charge.



- 15 -
49.      Mobile zinc concentrator.  The concentrator would upgrade an
estimated 29,000 tpy of ore with average 15% zinc content to concentrates of
35%, a level sufficient to permit further upgrading in calcination
facilities to 46% metal content. The unit would be similar to the lead
concentrator, but without the flotation section which is not necessary for
zinc ores. Zinc ores are mined in a smaller area, allowing a more limited
rotation between two locations which are adjacent to the existing
calcination facilities, over a single year. Each location must build up
8,350 tons of stock to ensure full capacity utilization of the
concentrator. CADETAF already owns 87,000 tons of low-grade ore stock which
are rejects from previous ore purchases and which will serve as start-up
feed for the concentrator and as back-up reserves.
50.      Crushing and grinding unit.  The unit is needed to reduce zinc or
lead concentrates to small, uniform grain size for marketing purposes (see
paragraph 40). Centrally located, the unit will treat high-grade,
hand-sorted zinc and lead ores which are then immediately marketable without
further processing.
51.      Mining equipment and works.  In order to raise miners'
productivity, financing will be provided on an experimental basis for simple
mechanized equipment which will be made available to some 39 beneficiaries
operating pilot lead mines (see paragraphs 58 and 65). The proposed
equipment, which includes compressors, jackhammers, hoists, minecars and
tracks, pumps, and aerial tramming equipment (for transporting ore from
high, steep slopes), is small, simple to operate, does not require large
maintenance facilities, and is affordable to the target beneficiaries. In
addition, CADETAF will construct tunnels for the underground transportation
of ore in 6 of the beneficiary mines. The beneficiaries for the first three
tranches of equipment and works (1983-85) would be 3 mining cooperatives, 6
miners' associations at Taouz, and some 30 other individual miners or
miners' associations distributed throughout the region.
52.      Training mine.  To familiarize miners with new equipment and
techniques, CADETAF will open a demonstration lead mine near Errachidia.
Training will be provided to miners in groups of ten during courses of
1 - 2 months. The detailed training program, which will be developed in
collaboration with the training division of MEM and the Ecole Nationale de
l'Industrie Minerale (ENIM), and selection criteria for the trainees, will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comments by September 30, 1982 and
thereafter implemented (Project Agreement, Section 2.10).
53.      Ore collection centers and equipment for CADETAF.  In order to
extend its services to new areas, CADETAF will construct and equip four ore
collection centers and four smaller sub-centers. Two existing collection
centers which have laboratory facilities will be equipped to handle the
increased demand for ore assays. CADETAF's existing workshops will be
equipped and two mobile maintenance vans will be set up to handle the
expanded maintenance requirements under the project. Additional surveying
equipment will also be provided.



- 16 -
54.       Management development for CADETAF.  Consultants would help CADETAF
develop and implement systems and procedures for management information,
financial and cost accounting, budgeting, the financing facility to miners
(para. 51), and long-term financial planning. The consultants would also
assist CADETAF to analyze its financial organization and to identify
possible training needs in this field.
55.       Geological studies.  A metallogenic inventory of the types of lead
and zinc deposits found throughout the mining region will be carried out
over 3 years through surveying and geological mapping. A wide range of ore
samples will be taken, tested and sent to BRPM for geochemical analysis.
Exploration of known reserves will also be carried out through geological
mapping of outcrops, underground surveys of veins and systematic trenching,
drilling, sampling and testing. These geological studies will enable
CADETAF to calculate probable reserves, including the ore ahead of the
existing mine faces, in order to evaluate the potential for further
expansion of production and to determine optimal mining methods.
56.       Socio-economic study.  The project would incLude a socio-economic
study of the artisanal mining sector in order to assess the impact of the
project on mining production and on the incomes and welfare of the miners
and make recommendations for future activities.
Project Implementation
sd;,      The project will be implemented over a period of four years, based
on appropriate phasing of the various components in order not to overburden
CADETAF's physical and institutional capacity. The project will be
iml)lemented by CADETAF. To carry out its expanded activities, the Director
General of CADETAF will be assisted by five senior staff: a technical
director seconded from BRPM, assisted by a geologist acting as a deputy
director; a financial director; a mining engineer; and a maintenance
engineer. In addition, by December 31, 1982 and June 30, 1983, CADETAF will
employ suitably qualified medium-level technical and support staff (Project
Agreement, Section 3.01 (b). CADETAF will also utilize consulting services
to help execute the management and financial study (paragraph 54) (36
man/months), and the geochemical study (42 man/months)", for which
consultants would be hired by September 30, 1982 and I)ecember 31, 1983
respectively (Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (a)). lJpon completion of the
management and financial study, CADETAF will review by June 30, 1983, in
consultation with the Bank staffing levels and training needs of its
financial organization, in light of the consultants reconmnendations (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02 (b)). CADETAF will hire local consultants to
implement a metallogenic inventory of lead and zinc occurences throughout
the regions within CADETAF's jurisdiction (36 man/months), and a
socio-economic study (12 man/months), for which the terms of reference would
be furnished to the Bank for review and comments by March 31, 1983 and June
30, 1983, respectively (Project Agreement, Section 2.03). CADETAF will
enter into a technical services contract with BRPM whereby BRPM will provide
procurement services and carry out the metallurgical testing, flow-sheet and
engineering, receipt, installation and start-up of equipment for lead and
zinc concentrators and the crushing and grinding units as well units as well
as staff training for the use of the equipment (Project Agreement,
Section 2.04).



- 17 -
58.       CADETAF will provide financing for mining equipment and works to
about 39 beneficiaries operating the pilot mines (see paragraph 51) which
have been or will be selected according to criteria acceptable to the Bank.
CADETAF will also procure the equipment, construct the works, and provide
maintenance services at cost. This facility will be funded initially by a
portion of the Government's contribution ($0.5 million) and part of the Loan
from the Bank onlent by the Government to CADETAF ($1.7 million). The
financing facility will be administered separately from CADETAF's other
finances and in accordance with policies and procedures agreed with the
Bank (Project Agreement, Section 4.02 (a) and Schedule 2). Because of its
close working relationship with the miners and its monopoly on ore
purchasing, CADETAF is best suited to control the utilization of and cost
recovery for this financing facility, and for these purposes will establish
by January 1, 1983, a special unit, staffed with two qualified credit agents
reporting to the financial director. CADETAF will appraise and supervise
the beneficiaries according to agreed guidelines (Project Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part 2 and 4). Since this will be CADETAF's first experience
with a financing system, it is recognized that these guidelines and terms of
financing may need to be adjusted in the light of actual results of the
first pilot mines. Therefore, CADETAF will exchange views with the Bank on
these matters by June 30, 1985 and make modifications thereafter if
necessary (Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part 5).
Cost Estimates
59.       The total financing required for the project including taxes,
contingencies, working capital and interest during construction, is
estimated at $15.2 million, of which approximately $9.5 million or 63%,
represents the foreign exchange component. Taxes are estimated at about
$0.9 million equivalent. Working capital requirements are estimated at
about $2.0 million, and interest during construction represents about $2.3
million. Costs for equipment, estimated at about $5.0 million, are based on
delivered prices quoted by suppliers in December 1981. Expenditures for
civil works and the geological studies have been estimated by CADETAF, based
on its own construction as well as exploration activities. Consultant costs
include a total of 60 man/months for foreign consultants, at an average cost
of $13,500 per man/month including travel and subsistence. Estimates for
local consultants (66 man/months) are based on an average cost of $5,000 per
man/month. Physical contingencies for equipment are estimated at 15% of the
base cost except where number and type of equipment have been clearly
identified, and for other components 10%. Price escalation for all foreign
components is calculated on the basis of annual international price
increases of 8.5%, 7.5%, and 6% for 1982, 1983-1985 and 1986, respectively.
Domestic costs have been escalated at 12%, 10%, 8%, 7.5% and 6% for 1982,
1983, 1984, 1985, and 1986 respectively. Total contingencies amount to 25%
of the estimated base cost. Incremental working capital requirements have
been estimated for the purchase of the low-grade ore stocks for the
concentrators (of which 80% for the lead concentrator) which are based on a
two-phase payment formula (see paragraph 63), as well as for the increased
purchase of high-grade ores.



- 18 -
Financing Plan
60.      The proposed Bank loan of $9.5 million would have a maturity of 17
years including 4 years of grace. It would finance the full foreign
exchange component of the project or 63% of the project cost, net of taxes.
The Loan would be on-lent to CADETAF at the same terms as the Bank loan to
the Government. CADETAF would finance local costs of $0.6 million from its
own cash generation. Remaining local costs ($5.1 million) would be financed
by the Government. The Government would provide the funds necessary to
complete the project, regardless of whether the need for additional funds
results from cost overruns or a shortfall in CADETAF internal cash
generation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Financial Arrangements
61.      Cost recovery.  It is expected that artisanal production will
increase considerably as a result of the project, thus expanding the base
for CADETAF's revenues. Production is expected to increase by 14,300 tpy
lead and 7,560 tpy zinc by 1988, the peak production year, raising the
annual average production from 14,000 tons to 36,000 tons. The bulk of the
production increases comes from the concentrators (13,110 tpy). Output is
expected to increase in the pilot mines receiving the imining equipment by
30% for two cooperatives and the 30 individual mines, and by 50% for the
remaining cooperative and the 6 miners' associations (4,050 tpy). The
extension of ore purchasing and mine pumping services will also raise
production levels (3,550 tpy).
62.      Nonetheless, changes in CADETAF's ore pricing formula and the
introduction of treatment fees are necessary so that the capital and
incremental operating costs implied by the project are fully recovered from
the artisanal miners. CADETAF's withholding margin wouald be maintained at
25% for the purchase of high-grade lead concentrates and in addition,
laboratory fees would now be charged. For high grade zinc concentrates, the
margin would be reduced to 10%, to compensate for the introduction of
specific fees for zinc calcination and laboratory services. In addition,
CADETAF would charge a fee to cover the full cost of crushing high-grade
ores, a service previously provided and charged for by the smelters (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, Parts 1A, 2A (a) and (b), and 3). For low-grade lead
and zinc ores, CADETAF would deduct a 10% margin on the purchase price, as
well as charge fees to cover the full operating and replacement costs for
the concentrators and the operating costs for the laboratory and zinc
calcination services (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Parts lB(b), 2A (c) and
(d), and 3). Annual budgets for operating costs, investment and supporting
services would be prepared by CADETAF and furnished to the Bank (Project
Agreement, Section 2.07 (c) (ii)). On the basis of these proposed budgets
and the forecast ore purchase prices, the allocation of the withholding
margin would be determined at the beginning of fiscal year so that the
proceeds would cover the above budgeted expenditures, except for expenses
which can be recovered directly through the various fees or for investments
which are financed by the Bank Loan and Government contributions. At
mid-year the forecast prices and proposed budgets would be reviewed and if



- 19 -
necessary, the budgets would be revised to reflect the actual results of the
previous six months (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part 2B).
63.       The ore payment formula would remain the same for purchase of
high-grade concentrates (see paragraph 39), whereas low-grade ores would be
paid for in two installments: 80% at the time of purchase, based on an
estimated average annual price, and the balance 12 months later, based on
the average actual price, as well as the performance of the concentrators,
for the preceding year (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part 1B (a) and (c)).
This payment formula would reduce the amount of working capital required for
the concentrators as well as the price risk for CADETAF. The phasing of
payment is considered acceptable to the miners, as purchase of low-grade ore
represents largely incremental income.
64.       The proposed revisions in the ore pricing and payment formulas,
earmarking of the witholding margin and calculation of treatment fees would
become effective not later than October 1, 1982. The ore pricing and
payment formulas would be reviewed with the Bank by June 30, 1984 (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02 and Project Agreement, Section 4.04)).
65.       The cost of the mining equipment and works to be provided to the
pilot mines through the financing facility would be repaid by the
beneficiaries under a lease-purchase contract over a period of five years,
including one year of grace. The cost of the equipment and works would be
repaid at an annual interest rate of 12%, which would be positive in real
terms, and is considered affordable to the target beneficiaries. Payments
equivalent to quarterly installments would be deducted from ore purchases
from the beneficiaries or made in cash (Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part
3 (d)). Furthermore, CADETAF will furnish the Bank with government-audited
financial statements for itself and the financing facility within 7 months
after the end of the fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.02 (b)).
66.       CADETAF's financial prospects.  The financial projections for
CADETAF (excluding the financing facility) through 1990 indicate modest
profits beginning in 1985. This is to be expected in view of the fact that
the ore pricing formula recovers costs, but passes on to the miners as much
of the benefits as possible. The debt service ratio is satisfactory,
reaching a low of about 1.2 in 1987 when debt repayment starts in full and
rising again to about 1.9 in 1990. With the contributions from the
Government in 1982-86, the long-term debt equity ratio is projected at 61:39
in 1985 and 41:59 in 1990. The current ratio is satisfactory for the
projection period, rising from 1.2 in 1982 to 1.6 in 1984 once the
concentrates are producing. by 1990, it would be 9.0 as a result of the
excess cash projected from 1986 onwards and which has not been allocated for
new investments or supporting services to miners.



- 20 -
67.      To ensure maintenance of a sound financial position during project
implementation and thereafter, CADETAF would build up its reserves and limit
additional expenditures for investment and supporting services. For any
year until the completion of the project, (a) CADETAF's non-project
investments and supporting services to miners will not be permitted to
exceed an aggregate amount of DH 1.5 million (US$0.28 million) (Project
Agreement, Section 4.03 (a)); and (b) CADETAF will not incur any non-project
debt (Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (c) (i)). After project completion,
(a) the combined amount of CADETAF's investments and supporting services
expenditures in any given year should not exceed 50% of its net income of
the previous year until such time that CADETAF's accumulated reserves exceed
J> 5.0 million (about US$0.96 million) (Project Agreement, Section 4.03
(:)), and (b) CADETAF may not incur long-term debt if its debt/equity ratio
would be greater than 60:40 and its current ratio would be less than 1.5
tProject Agreement, Section 4.03 (c) (ii)).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      The major equipment items (concentrators, crushing, and grinding
units and compressors) totalling $3.7 million and representing 70% of
Bank-financed equipment, will be procured through international competitive
bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. About $1.4 million worth of
equipment will be procured either through limited international tendering
(LIT) for contracts costing more than $100,000 or through price
solicitations of at least three suppliers of Moroccan firms and foreign
fin.-s represented in Morocco for contracts costing less than $100,000.
Small workshop and laboratory equipment, amounting to about $250,000, would
be procured through prudent local shopping (Project Agreement, Schedule 1,
PaZt C). Services of consultants financed by the Bank would be procured in
accordance with the Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.
69.      Disbursement of the Bank loan proceeds would be made on the
following basis: a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods and 75%
of local expenditures for goods procured locally; b) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for consultants; and c) amounts
due for interest and charges during construction up to $2.3 million. The
Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 1986.
Project Benefits and Risks.
70.      The financial rate of return for the incremental costs and benefits
expected under the project is estimated to be 24%. The project would be
only marginally viable if artisanal production drops 20% below projections
or selling prices for lead and zinc drop 20% or more below projections.
However, the production and price assumptions used for the base case are
conservative, in order to take account of possible cyclical declines in
demand for lead and zinc.



- 21 -
71.      Benefits from the project accrue to the economy, in the form of
increased foreign exchange earnings resulting from the export of lead and
zinc, and to the miners, in the form of increased incomes. The economic
rate of return for the project is estimated at 32%. Projected net foreign
exchange revenues from the project would amount to a cumulative $34.0
million through 1990. Benefits from the concentrators and from the new ore
collection and mine pumping services, would accrue to some 7,500 artisanal
miners. Incremental income per miner resulting from increased production of
low-grade ore is estimated at about $145 (in 1981 terms) per year, or an
average increase of 57% over 1980 income levels. Mine budgets were
established for the pilot mines, employing some 1,500 miners, and the
additional net annual income per miner resulting from the equipment provided
under the project was estimated at about $275, an average increase of 23%.
72.      Most of the production increases do not require incremental labor,
although some employment would be generated by the additional production of
hand-sorted, high-grade ores induced by the concentrators, and by the
production of the mines receiving pumping services and those served by the
new collection centers. Other non-quantifiable benefits relate to the pilot
nature of the project, including the increased knowledge of mineral deposits
resulting from the geological studies, which would permit the planning of
expanded activities, and the identification of appropriate organization,
methods and equipment for the optimum exploitation of the mineral deposits.
Moreover, the mining of low-grade ore would alleviate the despoiling of
deposits due to mining only the richest parts of veins. The socio-economic
study will also allow CADETAF to understand and predict with greater
certainty the miners' responses to the policy changes, so that it can better
plan its services.
73.      The major risk faced under the project stems from unpredictable
sharp declines in lead and zinc prices, which are subject to cyclical price
fluctuations. A sharp price drop would be accentuated by the time lag
between ore purchase and final payment; this price risk would be reduced to
the extent that deliveries of lead concentrates are made to the domestic
smelter PZ (paragraph 40) and by staggering payments to miners for low grade
ores (paragraph 63).. Price declines could also discourage artisanal
production, reducing CADETAF's revenues and jeopardizing recovery of its
operating costs. This risk has been reduced by the proposed pricing and
payment changes (paragraphs 62-63), and by the financial assurances
requested (paragraph 67).
74.      The other risk facing the project is the uncertainty concerning the
miners' response to the measures proposed under the project. While changes
in CADETAF's operating procedures have been kept to a minimum, they may be
viewed with suspicion by the miners. Miners could also decide to maintain
their current income levels and reduce their production of hand-sorted
concentrates because of the opportunity to sell low-grade ore, instead of
increasing overall production. CADETAF might have to make purchases of
low-grade ore conditional on delivery of hand-sorted concentrates. These
uncertainties are the reasons for the pilot nature of the project, which
contains built-in mechanisms for reviewing and adjusting the proposed
measures in the light of actual results.



- 22 -
75.      Mine safety is inspected by CADETAF's technicians periodically and_
hard hats are required for the miners' safety in the shafts and tunnels.
Few accidents seem to occur due to good rock conditions. The only source of
pollution under the project is the effluents from the flotation section of
the lead concentrator, which contain chemical reagents used in the process.
The effluents will be held in watertight tailings ponds until evaporated to
provent their entering the aquifer.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Centrale d'Achat
et de Developpement de la Region Miniere du Tafilalet et de Figuig (CADETAF)
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
77.      In addition to the features of the Loan and Project Agreement which
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of effectiveness include: (i) the execution of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and CADETAF; and (ii) the execution of a
technical services contract between CADETAF and BRPM (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01).
78.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - Recommendation
79.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                                           AN I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEF4ES
LAhD ARLA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ES       aE
TOTAL             447.0/c                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL      203.7 7c                               MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMUICA & CAItUAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   200.0       310.0      740.0                 865.5                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUM.PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)       169.3       222.2      315.2                 758.3                    1324.1
POPULAT ION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATlON, tID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0       14993.0   19538.0
URBAN POPULATUON (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3          34.6       39.9                  45.2                      64.2
POPULATIlN FROJECTIONS
PuPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         35.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           81.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2090
kPOPULATION DENSITY
PLR SQ. Km.                        26.0         33.5       43.7                  36.3                     34.3
PYb SQ. KEh. AGRICULTURAL LAND     59.0         76.0       92.9                 442.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         47.6       46.3                  44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6         48.3       50.4                  52.4                     55.3
tS YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          4.1        3.3                   3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH SATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.6         2.5        2.9                   2.7                      2.4
LhhAhA                               3.7         4.2        4.5                   4.6                      3.7
LRLDU  BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2        47.4       44.2                  41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.8        16.4       12.8                  12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6         3.5        3.2                   2.9                      2.3
F'A,IILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1       78.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0        5.4
FP0L AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF P000 PRODULTION
PbE  CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0         98.0       85.0                  96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
RRQUIREMLtSTS)                   96.0        102.0      105.0                 110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         66.0       67.0                  73.4                     65.8
OF WHICH ANInAL AND PULSE        13.0         13.0,      13.0                  17.1                     34.0
ChlLU (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       30.3        21.4       15.7                  14.9                      7.6
HLALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.9          51.9       56.4                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  ..           ..         ..                    ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              30.6         51.0       55.0                  59.4                     65.7
UhbAN                              58.7         92.0      100.0                  83.9                     79.7
h(LhAL                             19.0         28.0      25.0                   40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        29.0         ..                    ..                     59.9
UhbAN                                           75.0                                                      75.7
KURAL                                            4.0                                                      30.4
PbPULAIIUN PLK PHYSICIAN           9406.11d   12814.5   11037.4                  4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATIOUN PEk  URSING PERSON          ..      2742.2    1693.5                 1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL BLD
TOTAL                             626.U        664.3     773.6                  647.4                    471.2
URBAN                                ..        454.7     623.4                  547.2                    558.0
RURAL                                ..       5821.4    3089.5                 3361.1
ADhNSSIOWS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         15.5       16.5                  25.3
hULS ING
AVLRAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8          5.5
URBAN                               4.3          4.9
KURAL                               5.1          5.8
AVERAGE NUMbER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TDOAL                               2.2          2.4
URBAN                               2.1          2.1
RURAL                               2.3          2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
ON DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.1/e         ..
URbAN                              85.47T       68.4      65.0.
KURAL                              30.87          ..         .



- 24 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEyAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDL]E EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0        52.0       72.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  67.0         67.0      90.0                  101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                27.0         36.0      54.0                   67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0        13.0       20.0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                   7.0         18.0      25.0                   48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0          7.0      15.0                   28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       3.0                   11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.0        34.0       39.0                   34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                             ..        20.0       21.0                  23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         14.0         21.4      28.0                   43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         14.8      19.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          45.8        62.4       87.4                 121.D                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.6      32.6                   37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   22.0         16.2      10.7                   35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..       2.0                    3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3369.7      3951.7    5117.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.1        14.1       15.6                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.5        56.9       52.7                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.8        17.4       20.7                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 29.0         26.4      26.2                   26.4                     31.8
__E_                                  52.1         45.2      44.2                   47.C                     49.0
FEMALE                                 5.9          7.5       8.2                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          2.0        1.9                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f        20.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.37f        49.07        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0           4.0/f 4                            .                        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f         12.0/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              107.0        157.0     389.0                 271.4
RURAL                               66.0       101.0      238.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     242.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      157.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               51.0        38.0       28.0                   22.1
RURAL                               49.0        45.0       45.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures of households.
Revised



0550'  9 11pu  'SSOT151   odI        0....  .u solpoot uIWl  P.. 501-
I-f-u uuo'61 Pu  uOTo  0100000).T.1 pu. .s;oo00 Ild jo Os"Ij ou 5.500  'o   fsIO    q  -so0-sus  Pu.-
uuOlTuT Tuno Tulous          - - uOuo                                                         TIT    W90  '05050   uouqo;suuoo;u  'T ...dolo                    TuusIu   iT
00109   ss;fdsps'99          -';u;ouO'.T      o.s;d0510;usluu."
-  T_01p0'.d Mo0P     Al~ "- OullT.... po  -uTo-o -TIs-SI  001000 T0501
T-ooS                                                                 090-1005 0 0".051J.10-9
099So;~o'.;u;  op'.0  T  uoOTOuuO.TOuoolep      IIO uo  un Iuu up
ooolq,  uu(alspu   .qo    upodo    uuuOsS-110    's POTS0u   M  j   lOu' 0   9110u   q   uM   ~~0                 PI000500  1Aos
usqe     (uOou)  TO; uuO; u.WouS'.1,001  ulsTulslOuO00909*0-Poo 0                            I0u0   051u 00Id00 "IqeOsn   uIOl Sous sT IIuOlT        P
0~01u90  u   utllJ  00  005000  oooorp   ub10'             0   10.su       q00    010  on us"_        '00 !u0000T       supos00ux,u
.09ueoooo'.SooAD  ;u   TT03-.0   .11OI solOuou  '150   101                            .  (0110'p  SsuluOIpu ,slu;od J0.Iu'00q pluoou               q_0  llMu
- 1100  pus uqoe -  su00 d 0.   0)   ulfS   o    1.u)   lOlnO   OOSus                    o'S'Tzouoo.o-               u5050  sl00  PusOM  Ilu   Ouso                  ..11u  .usI.
1.1-= 11111q T   1  --TI-  -  1-1    1 41'ldp ..OI.. -e      Tu- ous  616 9.q                            16 -0961 -01I.u11   o0010010010
T-oupuauooouudzuuo'uouooOOou'o'd                                                     i~iuu;.oooo;ouSSsouuonooso.rOuSS
To...  pu 0 q1    - .  . ooiio)uId PusiIs0io00e0001du.5Oo1                                      uuseo'oospsuo(eoluu)Tuo1uu½ .d11610T
A- Ia -   T)01-1     - 99-169            ..u . ..6 Pu-0)6   '6-1 -10'   Ts-  -uo  (P ....u 4 u1 050'ITTl  -0010
-so  003  o S;Tus  o'uTo - 0100901  s.losuu  "Io00uT Oo'0961    o  0T 0
--0s   IIo)00l      1   0~.1   0   '.0                IP66   0   06   09                         u I duTs J  oso-   P pu   sou 6o61ouo0 15000 00 Tsu.oO~ 09 p .0...u ..e11
00 uooTToloIOuOd- '110'0  piTs '0's 'lsTuu - )TT'0000) 0100 uulTeIu900.d  .010.0 oT 00 uusouuo uj.Tos - (.sp 0'.0  ssue) 01T1000(;u-10...   IlTuoTuP
flIp 6)61 PT65  P-  0)615                                lO6 !Ap  0)1 5d   06   '19T -96   i. 1001  iOTO I
ITI 0--   5TP- 6)1Pu   )1  06   11M0500-  oeT,01 sTo As 'u Iuuupodols.p'ITooOo1T.10011M6s1A IIpv  Isp oWO
"IT.uuuoo1010  01qi pII'o           0110,Oeoulde    uooo                                  uOo  s   ouro   .                 10100015605      -  ..0 uTo 00I u -Tsuo'  ST
O01p01001'Ouo.oOO  o100~ S11oloeeuO - ( P0uL6010 Poo- IoeqT 10901                          J-10I661 Pu  '0)6          T69191   sql'oOlooOWp-a.S0'.eluTWOu
IT 11;11111,ldlde  oo                                                 u  poq  .1STuue911JO'ujoou-T-eoWW'    ppIn_                           n  l
-T'ui1T00   000100'Tleol'o''oTle    1'  0009psoo   u  PO.5T.p. P' .,0010                                                      IT" uuTeuO OI'M P=II   peI'd 0T       00op
30 oldquOu  -0 00-   P~.s-   o.Oluu os10u0000s00snT0                                      I0uT91sou0TPlaT1~0661l1u1'001o                                      Iu)oeT0.P0
iTOlus 01011 0000 08011 05 00W'WOl 110; .01110,. d sq o9             d00110.a   0..)  T000a                                               9 - TTO.. 0060
p'.oOPTIOO00005000  1.0.002   u;poooso 00 0100.110 0sT""Pu6e6OPWoLI oOpL6    ''1T'9-9T!  .    l:-
-o1PeU1osPe  pO'.TP '096OsO,'                   T 0l090   IsOT.'  0TI,.3   0100000W1W100PIubu  '10    1
~ooosWeo00ls0u 00010 - (oolOeliiOo   PuTu-  000  00901001 -   e10d  5                 o900;os  Io'.uo- T..TI    0MWIl (soPsoS   O61)  '5    u0sMp10Jo05
suusu61  --O 6TlPM1OC510eo WSO66Pu'06 'TB  0109615sosooo   ..-so;SIleuSoo 11
olpeo u0 uolosou'.IT'o  uelu I5013) 0  pu  51000  01  000I 01 --T OuOdlT                  09 00I11   50.5snOTe   0oqeT'Sou      .0   TW000.   11
ATT-T-:1  -  -I .. ~ 50109050.,. SOTOO;TII61O                                                     .0096   6)61d P'-.* )6  '091.. 0010.000
p000000'so''.OiseeossOPOOOu'.00001000001W  0¶0  *~'1Sub,..  0.0             os'S-pl  00  55T0q9   s) 09009 0011  0.016 -(pe50000 000)  00IIM9-' '.0I0
0090  ooo)si soo o.0''s0   - )eWWOiiuo pssOlo  10)TOTe00I00s)                                     6-06    Pu',  'I)-96    '02-061. 00  So
aoooooou.oo  oOe  0.90 00000  Muno-   lood          - usqoo-)ouoTld)  lusT 090000I I.Ts0uo
P..    P---d6 ul~-~6                          096100   oeulou    n
olepu   OS  :p10u19W   dO   tp   190  0IWO.udT               o                    P'110    0000  902P00,    199-1900011W'  000   .TlOo
soOlOOlTOOl  uopuo'o 00 .uuo.ososp  1 00 Sous                 pui 100010010. 00;  0091  5 p100.00 -  u'1 )00T1...W5  5900 10
~pe'.o'.ii109o10o  qoIq  sOWoSoeosqOoOe111000001   '11000000  001009                                                      IWp 6)91  01 0)61'0961  005P1T-A
I.  p .. q I.j  ......   (-II:..d11      ''01010.£0010-o0dITO
SIIooluuW'.IIOIsOWoOOOO1P000000100!'.WW   oeso0.))IuOuIOoSllnWsO~~-T-1-1                  I. ..R______P_____T-__..
61000 109 0u0100000i01 00109,01 0'.M ..5 00  P.  '100010    Tlso . -T0';uo             ue1011000-016u01096o 019  050           "'I' - .  ..." 0-1 OoWTT-000eInOOl
OeuooOulSo:ld-   pIolO   30 -ussoTo u.1d1s-1009u-.oed                                                                                                             101190
OO'POOOO)50091 0  P09)000- 11019  Te '150  1190  - IO0osoIPu0Ou-.0.000  0 lOo SOIIOOO  90qOoITT.o'u.oqo p-p'oop OlS 10 0
ouu'.O  01  1TT1 lI  000100- 010OO              I (10010 -19   0000005001.u.s0 Iq                                    010T5 ITT       100   10W   5100'00
-o OltOO   o.o    uOuSs dOOIP00p9  0  99siSo1s''SM                                                   090'00iu.opo.   5   9IP01.'1uuOe0.   9
01-9pIW  uOollM   WOpIoo  £l---0 i000TO--IOOOOO sW.-u00SoOod9  015   10001010191£0 P6OIMO P9 0OL10'0961W                                                       0
600900 SAIluS0000TT0150    Ol  1                                  -0.  0  u 6LTP..lls i  *1 0000  01
pOW0'.0900u    unO1O1  o   010    Wool            100100'W11'P100~1T"   p01 £09100015 I 0'9T  p091 '09S el0561 I5q 001011000   1-9
lWOouOuepOufO I100   poe'oTMd Oll~"T. .uooou dO_olT_Wood'.oMl9lW019'10l9su00100000.0300o5TluOiD WTllod
P.               q.)                                                                        -PT- T00e100-oeo00oI100W S0'lsu                               000400TWOIOO
OlledP        o 1-- 101010010   pITTMW'0      Y 19-10                                                    P66  6001  P0-6 'O96  T¶011090      ......
oo'   -   ..q- .ueb011    009 -0    111u1 ;   feS0 *-00p05pIT0T00P1;   p1900   V!001t                      0   10  elfTi-   T0090  JO 01910 -(OTO0T1I)0910)090
A..P..                                                                    -~~lloo  ))  u  0)1'96        1'  050-) PuIe0l)   0'- 0101  0961sI0e)   010
_. ;. - ... -.d.p   ATII.   P-IT                 ..j  -q, II                  IueTOuOYO   0906 00  TOI0TdO
-p..d.p.1   d. ~Tq       * 0..0  000009                     I.0g                                                                      -P p1ojp"IojsT o96T 0000
ool'.eqooip  0009  0000W5150l 00009000 llOl - P'9 IslIosoK  0d0 _0010515be   I05
- 10090500  10  P50101  00  IWOosiOpe'i1T010    05--1 06   p0                 0061 '96    00 b)1  Os   u10OO    000  oo              M01(900
OTuou0   uo10TP1P0  0510091s0  0  101  1.100  100  p1                ~         0151'.lMus   0005100'-OP0p001   1000   '01000    '1021   0
'OT1ISIO  1010501510000  .0)W, 00101 SeOIooOWOIeloooou1l'0  100)  lull IloofOu   0 01ud0000  (0009- 9109  01  W6010TTTTO 9do5
010.....  II0... o0T01, 1   IOOopI         I0  ..-lO   0101   00100      I= eln
51110900900 S0o oooood sO0000WloOOus_OT  'T100-000d00  o.IWI90 S
p1 q0    I )0000  OOoss)00s   00119006            0.00  00T19l0 _O9p  )61_'0150'II0  00oup                                        I sqOo  001 0P9., '5.Os-  sujA         0
""qIsisM    J   lMO    oOIIT uolOOso1  I04   oPPOP (00   001  'OlMO                                    001005-os~u1 -0  soul -P'.1d II;.9000   0  0'T I090   lT              00
Jo T_      l   T0 uoW001  101   l0d              1  sToo  III 0100   0  o0;0950j  s ou  20100110 01l pO900                                      I- I0 0019000' 000010  001,    u
000050lOOTun-               lilu   Tss100(01900051T'u0    O                                 qoooOOsOT   -0-T1...01009T01001d9001o00600I6 Iu5100009 I0101
05040 0100 00000 POT 009109001 1005 000 00010 019100010    ps9-0u1u.d..o slos.00-dP oo  001091  0MW..  --0  )s1-10100 1T 001001
0020000  JO 000019 ~0590  1  000 51001  ~01 10009 9006 ~500'1  1001K  1009'.doTuS  ssoondso110 SolooT  109000o 00  tdsoll  IoOToO uns(qo  190-J
OoeS  OWOO  10  10  0001100000910u0Osos990  oo   £TTOO   ()  sIS0loosl)l.09.  0  ooS  00.0  es  .M.  1)IT  sroW   000010d9
SSOT.0  s09.  50100100)0   TSuO   IOsoOOOpu   IPST 111               ''P,lOs   0110   MOSP0   550'519
'001'.00 '00    T000001u000110 u  0s01000  0'.0001  £9p1550)000   00550001'O5PpO'TpOPu50  JO000  09  0W000019  99A1050T610.900
-010019000SI  £99  010  '.uu  9  01  PIOM   0  's901~  91 100010900  50  09  04~  £IOO'.S  TOTOS500P010  11  05.09.900999i..W
I ':d,'A~T"1'TTT'7l'~1-  "TT  ..P 0T.....       0                   l       90009100 9T'.OT0IT600RT
.3- .. I.              ...U       IId-d



- 26 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                   ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                     Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US  at                                   Annual Growth Rates (X)
current prices)                       Actual                                         Pro;ected
Indicator                       1980           1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 B/         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17640            10.2    6.5    3.4    4.5         4.0             3.9      5.7      6.2      6.6      6.7
Agriculture                 3253          4.3  -13.2   23.6   -1.7         6.2              3.5      3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5
Industry                    5599          8.8   10.0   -2.0    8.3         0.5              4.0      6.0     7.4      7.4      7.4
Services                    8788         13.3    8.3    4.3    4.2        13.0              4.0      5.2     6.2      6.9      7.0
Consumption                   15767          11.7    2.0    7.4    3.3         9.1             4.0      2.3      4.1      4.8      6.0
Gross investment               3849         20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2        -5.8             -5.2    15.7    12.8    10.2        8.0
Exports of GNFS                 3273          6.3    9.8    3.8    5.5         4.8             7.6      6.5      8.8      9.6     6.8
Imports of GNFS                5247         23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1        -9.2             -0.3    -1.0       4.8     4.5      5.0
Gross national savings          2429         13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5         *-             -2.2    20.9    10.6    14.1        7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969   100)          .        152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (US0  per DH)        .         .226   .222   .240   .256        .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                             Average Annual Increase (%)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                 (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                              4.0        4.9        5.7        5.9        6.8
Agriculture b           29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                   3.5       -0.5        3.2        3.5        3 5
Industry b/             23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                  4.7         8.6        5.0        6.6        7.3
Se vices b/             47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                   4.1        5.5        7.3        5.9        7.2
Consumption                89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                   4.1        4.7        5.8        4.1        6.1
Gross investment           10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                   8.0       15.9       -2.4        9.4        7.3
Exports GNFS               27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                   1.3        2.6        6.3        8.0        7.2
Imports GNFS               26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                   3.5        7.2        2.1        2.7        4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                     3.5       13.1        3.1       10.0        8.7
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5       16.6       23.3       22.3
Current expenditures                              15.6       14.9       20.2       21.7
Surplus (+' or deficit (-)                         0.9        1.7        3.1        0.6
Capital expenditure                                3.8        5.9       12.2       12.1
Foreiga financing                                    .        1.4        3.7        5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                      4.0        6.0        5.9        5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (X)           1.6        3.1        3.0        2.5        3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (X)    3.8           6.7        4.3        5.9        6.8
ICOR                                     3.09       2.77       3.87       2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                    0.10       0.40      -0.002      0.33       0.24
Import elasticityc/                      0.95       1.44       0.28       0.76       0.80
a/  At market prices.
S/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factot cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/ Estimate.
p/ Preliminary.
February 19, 1982
ENENA CP 11-B



- 27 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                        ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                          Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                   Annual Growth Rates (X)
Indicator            (million tlS at                              (at constant 1969 prices)
cu-rent prices)                 Actual                                     Projected
1980         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979         1980 e/  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    4.0          6.9        7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products             1823       -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5           7.3       3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.2          -7.5       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                    1058       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6          17.1       3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 591           -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3    7.0          5.5      17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)        4283        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7    -11.5           0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                           720        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    1.2         10.7      -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                     1006        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2    -12.5           3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment        805        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2    -19.9           1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                        1752         5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1    -13.8           2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969) = 100)
Export price index                 ,        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2    291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
import price index                 .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4    326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index               .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5i  91.8         90.0      89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                         Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                 (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                            2.0      -0.7        7.5        8.1        6.9
Ptimary products          89.5    89.7   86.9   75.5   61.3   59.8              ..     -2.2        4.7         4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.4   13.1   24.5   38.7   40.2               ..       9.0       17.8        16.0        8.1
factures
Ilmports                                                                           4.0       8.1        0.0        4.5        5.4
Food                      27.3    16.8   24.9   16.8    9.6    6.6              ..     14.0        0.8       -3.8        -1.8
Pet-oleum                  7.4      5.5   10.7   23.5   24.2   23.4             ..      9.5       10.2         1.8        2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.8   28.2   32.3                ..     12.8       -3.0        11.3        8.7
Others                    58.6    53.7   40.5   40.9   38.0   37.7              ..       3.8      -5.4         4.5        5.6
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)          Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960       1970       1975        1960       1970       1975      1960            1970             1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7        25.4       38.8        ..            0.9              0.4
Imports                         76.7       74.9       65.7        23.3       25.1       33.9        ..              ..              0.4
e/  Estimate.                                                                                             February 19, 1982
EMENA CP II-B
.



- 28 -
Population      :  19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                               ANNEX 1
GNP Per Capita:  USi 740 (1979)                                                                                                                                  Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANI) DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                                        Actual                                                           Projected
1970      1975      1976      1977       1978       1979      198  e/   1981       1Q82     1983   1984   1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                 775      2580      2288       2486      2955      3694       4364        5136    5852    6758   7872   8926   16088
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.             488       1530      1245      1283      1488       1938       2413        2851     3314     3951   4759   5477   10336
Imports of goods and services                 946      3134      3691      4364       4353      5268       5911        6369    6899    7911   8791   9865   16604
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.              625      2267      2305      2820      2628       3245       3770       4158    4693    5344   6046   6846   12178
N,t current tranfers                           27          8        47        52        50        44         127          -        -         -       -       -        -
Cur-ent account balance                      -144      -546     -1355     -1826     -1348    -1530        -1420       -1233   -1047   -1153   -919   -939    -516
Special grants                                 ..       100       435        360       260       420        9'7         300      250      200     150    100          -
Curreut account balance after grants    -144           -446      -920    -1466    -1088    -1110          -1323        -933     -797     -953   -769   -839    -516
Prc-ate copital                                21        21         38        53        45        37          88         25       28       31      15      39        79
MLT loans (net)                                90       304       336       1338      1109       946       118E8       1083      901     1121    882    979        727
Official                                    ..        ..        ..        ..         ..        ..          ..        716      643      683    554    612        618
Private                                     ..        ..        ..        ..        ..         ..         ..        367       159      437    329      368      109
Other copital                                  56       104         30        68       -73        73       -11 1        -70      -42      -30       -       -         -
Honrtary movements                            -23        17        16          6         8        53        158        -105      -89    -169   -147   -179    -289
International reserves                        161       437       548        609       772       917        814         972    1061      1229   1376   1556    2681
Of which:  Gold                             21        85        82       104        154       360        415         360      360      360    360    360        360
Reserves as mouths imports                    2.0       1.7        1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1         1.7        1.8      1.8      1.9    1.9      1.9      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                           175       664        725      1787      1182      1405       1567
Cconessional loans                          ..       164       121       634       334        321        750
DAC                                     ..       109         73       107       100        76          97
OPEC                                    ..        42        41        507       189       179         598
IDA                                     ..          1         4         3         -         -           1
Other                                   ..        13          3        17        45        66          69
Non-coocessiusal loans                      . .      500       614      1151       857       1113        817
Official export credits                 ..          3        22        27         2         2          11
IBRD                                    16       110         59        68        72       137          64
Other multilateral                      ..          7         2         7        51          7         13
Private                                 25       380        531      1049       732       967         729
-Suppliers credits                     .       127         10       171        10         8          16
Financial credits and bonds          ..       253       521       878        722       957        713
Extern-l Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             703      1753      2330      4069      5123      6182        7097
Official                                ..      1121       250       1975      2456      2833       3482
Private                                          632      1080       2094      2667      3349       3615
Undisbursed debt                          239        652       801      1024      2280      2337        2018
Debt service
Tutal service payments                      58       145       162       264       547        798       1191
Interest                                23        50        66        148       252       411        618
Payments as % exports of G+S               7.5       5.6       7.1      10.7      18.5       21.6       27.3
Average interest rate on new loans (%)           4.4        7.3       7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2         8.1
Average oaturity of new loans (years)           18.5      14.7       11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9        13.7
As x of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year ( 1979),
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Mat-rities due within 5 years                                              38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                             73.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                              6.9
February 19, 1982                            6
ENEMA CP IT-B
aF Prom IBRD External Debt Reporting System.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years between the external capital and debt service flows
reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
e/ Estimated.



- 29 -
ANNEX TI
Page I of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                         USt Million
C-edit                                                               Amount  7less cancellations)
Number        Year       Borrower                Purpose             Bank       TDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans     Fully disbursed                              411.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                          l. )
1017           1974      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry             50.0                    0.3
1018          1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agricultture           32.0                   11.0
555          1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agricuiltutre                     14.0        11.8
1201          1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            30.0                    6.4
1202          1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                21.0                   12.3
1220-T        1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              25.0                   19.7
1299           '976      Kingdom of Morocco    Power                  49.0                    1.9
1361          1977       CNCA                    Agricultture         35.0                    0.0*
1383          1l77       CIOR                    Induistry            45.0                    0.4
1416           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            41.0                   37.4
1428          1977       BNDE                    DFC                  43.2                   14.9
S-7          1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering             1.5                    1.0
1528          1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                      15.7
1602           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            65.0                   62.2
1625          1978       Maroc Phosphore         Industry             50.0                   10.7
1681          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education             113.0                  112.9
]F 57          1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)              25.0                   15.3
1695          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                  42.0                   41.9
1704          1979       CNCA                    Agriculture          70.0                   51.6
1724           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supplv           49.0                   40.4
1757           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            58.0                   i2.5
S-18           1980      BRPM                    Oil Exploration      50.0                   37.7
1830           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                62.0                   62.0
1848          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            34.0                   31.0
1943           1981      CIN                     Tourism             100.0                  100.0
1944          1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                      36.0
20o6i/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982      BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                  70.0
20381/         1982      Kirgdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                  70.0
Total                                                          1783.1 2/   SO.0       1017.0
of which has been repaid                                      203.0        0.9
Total now outstanding                                          1580.1       49.1
Amount Sold                                 20.1.
of which has been repaid                 17.7                   2.&
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1577.7       49.1
Total undisbursed                                              1005.2       11.8      1017.0
NOTE
I/ Not yet effective.
2   A $29.0 million loan for a Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agricultural Development Project
was approved by the Board on January 5, 1982.
US t40,783.65 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
*US3 Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1963/1978           BNDE                         Development Bank           -       2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                          Canning Factory          0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement             Cement Factory             -       1.4       1.4
1977/1980           Temara Cement                Cement Factory           4.8       3.5       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement                Cement Factory           12.5      2.2      14.7
1q80                SOMIFER                      Copper Mining            13.0      2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                               31.2     12.6      43.8
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales          14.1       3.4     17.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     17.1      9.2      26.3
Total Undisbu'-sed                                                     -        0.4       0.4
1/ Annex II will be updated at grey cover stage.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
C.       PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness; February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport equipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made in
July 1980.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have been
started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected,
mainly because project implementation proves more complex than anticipated.
However, the first results of the completed components are promising. Because
of the initial delay and the complexity in implementation, the original
closing date was extended by three years.
Ln. No. 1201        Doukkala I Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February
27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing
Date.   June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Irrigation and drainage works have been completed and put in service.
Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The balance of the loan
remaining undisbursed is expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last
disbursement requests have been processed.
.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 mDnths, and an extension of
the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness;  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there has been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is still
delayed for the health and tourism components. A two year extension of the
Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1299        Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The project
should be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule. However, ONE has experienced difficulties in collecting arrears
from other public agencies.  The balance of the loan remaining undisbursed is
expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last disbursement requests have
been processed.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed. An amount of about $2.8 million was cancelled.
About two-thirds of the loan have been disbursed.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohamdia region and of a priority first stage project.  It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total popuilation of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. While construction is proceeding
satisfactorily on two sites, that of another site is delayed due to technical
difficulty. There has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the
project due to the lack of experience in Morocco with this kind of project.
Extension of the closing date is being considered.,
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, inmplementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur relting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation has been proceeding slowly, and the contract for technical
assistance has not yet been awarded.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
project.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have now been
recruited and bid documents are under preparation. The Project Unit has been
established, though staffing of the unit has been slow.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover wost of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD
and KfW. To alleviate CNCA's short-term liquidity problems due to the recent
drought, its lenders, including the Bank, have increased their disbursement:
percentages under their respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Mini&re (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling so far has shown
encouraging results and hiring of the consultants is proceeding slowly.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements. The project will be
transferred shortly to the new petroleum development agency, the Office
National de Recherche et d'Exploitation Petroliere.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: Septeuber 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; Septeber 30,_
1981; Closing Date:June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is in its early stages but
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness:  April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit I mmbilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Commitments so far have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program for slum upgrading, sites and services and provision of serviced land
for small-scale industries, to be implemented in th,e cities of Meknes and
Kenitra. Assistance is also provided to strengthen the municipal services of
the project cities. Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient
coordination through the provincial Governors' offices.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981. Not yet effective. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include the construction of two regional
water supply systems and the expansion and upgradinlg of the water supply
facilities in about 32 small centres scattered throughout Morocco.  It would
also provide revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income
households, equipment, technical assistance training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot componenlt in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project would
also focus on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective.  Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project consists of (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending tc) small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating tc
the structure of incentives for SSIs.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Projectz US$29.0 million. Not yet signed. Closing Date:
June 30, 1988.
I



- 38 -
ANNEX III
page 1 of 2 pages
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL-SCALE MINING
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
a) Time taken by country to              18 months (June 1979-December 1980)
prepare project
b) Preparation by:                       Centrale d'Achat et de Developpement
de la Region Miniare de Tafilalet et
Figuig (CADETAF).
c) Project first identified              1979
by the Bank
d) Appraisal mission                     December 1981)
e) Negotiations                          December 1981
f) Planned date of effectiveness:        July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of effectiveness
a) Execution of the contract for technical services between CADETAF and BRPM
(paragraph 57).                                                                             7
b) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and CADETAF
(paragraph 60).
Other conditions
Agreements have been reached with the Government of Morocco and with CADETAF
on the following;



- 39 -
ANNEX III
page 2 of 2 pages
a) submission of a detailed training program and selection criteria for the
trainees to the Bank for review and comments by September 30, 1982, and
thereafter implemented (paragraph 52).
b) maintaining in position a technical director assisted by a geologist
acting as a deputy director, a financial director, a mining engineer and a
maintenance engineer and employment of suitably qualified medium-level
technical and support staff by December 31, 1982 and June 30, 1983
(paragraph 57).
c) employment of consultants for undertaking a management and financial study
and a geochemical study by September 30, 1981 and December 31, 1983,
respectively (paragraph 57).
d) submission of terms of reference of the metallogenic and socio-economic
studies to the Bank for review and comments by March 31, 1983 and June 30,
1983, respectively (paragraph 57).
e) establishment of a separately administered facility for financing
equipment and works to miners to be operated in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (paragraphs 58, 65).
f) application of the new proposed ore pricing and payment formulae not later
than October 1, 1982 and an exchange of views of the Bank on the formulae by
June 30, 1984 (paragraph 64).
g) a number of financial covenants (paragraph 67).






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE MINING                                                                                                       TINom°0 
Project Boundory
O       CADETAF Headquarters                                                                                                                       .rau a
0       Existing Ore Collection Centers
New  Ore Collection Centers
32°          Si;     New  Sub -Centers
r      Location of Zinc Concentrator                                                                                                                                            n
P      Location of Leod Concentrotor                    ,Jdr n-
Training Mine                                                            A,Fb
X      Old Mine Tailings and Rejects
Fracture Filling Deposit Pb and Zn                                                                                                                                                    I)-
L       Vein Depos,t Pa and (Ag)
..      Disse,inated  Deposit                                                                                                    wErfoud                                                                                                          sehs ber pepsiarebvte n
Stratified Deposit                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Thr,r- r ,-         -Y |Io
*   oroiieuyRad                                      i. .resmmreao9n-                                           *r                                                                                                                            orld iSakn WOt ,r iS eates nd
Primar,y Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,dsri00 oe ttsa
a Main Connecting Raads                                      '                     I'                                       srersous                                                                                                         o ovcet    or soondar,es
Connecting Roads                                                                  I_ __n -_v_._\____________
/         -          Paths
Railway
Internaticonal Boundary                                                                                                                                                                                              -            i Ryornios
j  Tarbal;   % m Jreme   ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~  ~~~~~~  /  \   0,         _                   X        . btrZ>°ua w:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/otserirer,troore  OOCO _
5  K LOMETER5 °l  40  eo  120  lbO  _                           7               ;                                                                                      :; \;1 (; 1 S/    g                r--' .             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5 ers ysr r  ea  ROOt
N  ;    ,  ,      ,   ig                                               , ,,                        X                                             A              7  0        i 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  A L G E R I A~~~~~~~~~~~~AL   ER   
N
MILES 0         21)    40    HO       go    If O    *       \;ff                                                                                                                                                                          .fioD
.                 ,                                                                                       X             M A U R I T A N I A  s M A L I  I D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AL 
.'                                                                                                                          7 33-
-3 O' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~3



