L-otsA S  ZA
FILE COPY                                RESTRICTED
Report Nlo. PA-28a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZAMBIA
May 8, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CUGRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   K 0.714 or 71.4 ngwee (n)
Kwacha (K) 1     =  Us$ 1.4O
K 1,000,000      =  US$ 1,400,000
K 1                   100 n
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(British/American System)
1 short ton      =   2,000 lbs = 908 kg
1 square mile        259 ha
1 acre (ac)      =   0.405 ha
1 mile (mi)      =   1,609 m = 1.6 km
1 bag            =   200 lbs = 90.8 kg
ABHLEVIATIOWS
ADS  - Agricultural Development Services
AFC  - Agricultural Finance Company
CDC  -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
GIiB - Grain Marketing Board
MILD - Ministry of Rural Development
TBZ  - Tobacco Board of Zambia



ZAMBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ....................................  i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION . ..................................  1
II.  BACKGROUND        ..................1................. 
A.   General .     ....................................      .            1
B. Agricultural Production .................                               2
C.  Institutions and Agencies            ............................    3
D.  Tobacco Industry o                         ................................. ..    4
III. PROJECT AREAS .....................................  6
A.  Location, Population and Land Tenure  ............* ...   6
B.  Climate, Soils and Vegetation ......             ..................   6
C.  Transportation           ......................................    7
IV.  THE PROJECT .............................................. 7
A.  Description         ..........................................    7
B.  Detailed Features ..................................,    8
C.  Development Schedule  .................................  11
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ............................   11
A.  Project Costs  ..........     ..............................  11
B.  Proposed Financing .................................   13
C.  Provision of Medium  Term and Seasonal Credits .........  14
D.  Procurement .         ..........................................  14
E.  Disbursement ..........................................  15
F.  Accounts and Audit .......          ............................  15
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND PROJECT OPERATION .......................  16
A.  Tobacco Board of Zambia ......             ........................  16
B.  On-Farm Development ................             ..................  18
C.  Selection of Participants  ........... ..            ...............  18
D.  Leases         ..............................................  19
E.  Marketing and Processing  ........... ..            ................  19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission to
Zambia in December 1968 composed of Messrs. M. van Gent, J. Zarandin
(Bank), and P. Hogg (Consultant), and a follow-up mission in June
1969 by Messrs. Rowe and Mehrad (Bank).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                  Page
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMEIS'
BENEFITS AND GO-VERNMENT REVENUES ......  ................... 20
A. Yields and Production .........    ....................... 20
B.  Markets ............................................ .  -
C. Farmers' Benefits . ...................................
D.  Government Revenues ...........  ....................... 23
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ............................... 23
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................  25
ANNEXES
1. Zambian Production of Tobacco and Maize, and Tobacco Growing
Methods
2. Existing Tenant Farmer Scheme, and Lease Arrangements for
Tenants and Assisted-Tenants
3. Operating Costs - Mukonchi Training Farms
4. Operating Costs and Revenues - Mukonchi Training Unit
C. Staff Training
6. Mukonchi Development Costs
7. Assisted-Tenant and Tenant Farmer Scheme Development Costs
8. Assisted-Tenant - Farm Investment and Budget
9. Tenant - Farm Investment and Budget
10. Tobacco Board of Zambia
11. Project Staffing
12. Tobacco Marketing Prospects
13. Applications and Sources of Government's Funds - Mukonchi
Training Unit
14. Impact on Government Budgetary Position - Assisted-Tenant and
Tenant Farmer Scheme
15. Economic Rate of Return Calculation - Assisted-Tenant and Tenant
Farmer Scheme
CHART
MAP



ZANBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report sets forth the appraisal of a project designed to sup-
port Zambia's tobacco industry and the development of commercial farming by
Zambians. The main elements are (i) the Mukonchi Training Scheme which
would train farmers in tobacco and maize production; (ii) the Assisted Ten-
ant Farmer Scheme which would develop farms for leasing to farmers trained
at Mukonchi; (iii) the Tenant Farmer Scheme which would develop new farms
and refurbish existing farms for leasing to suitably experienced persons;
and (iv) the provision of technical assistance services to small farmers.
This would be the third agricultural project in Zambia financed by the Bank,
previous loans being of US$5.3 million for forestry development in 1968 and
of US$2.5 million for beef cattle ranching in 1969. Progress on the live-
stock development project is satisfactory, and while the forestry project
has run into problems it is anticipated that these will be resolved before
the close of 1970.
ii.       Agriculture contributes only 7% of Zambia's GDP, but between some
50% and 60% of the active population are small scale cultivators or cattle
owners. Almost all of the tobacco and most of the marketable surpluses of
maize, livestock and fresh milk sold in Zambia are produced by non-Zambian
farmers. The project would help to promote the growth of the tobacco and
maize industries and to introduce Zambian farmers to cash crop production.
iii.      The project would be carried out by the Tobacco Board of Zambia
(TBZ). TBZ would be reorganized and its staff strengthened for this purpose.
In addition, managing agents would be appointed to operate and supervise the
Mukonchi Training Unit. Until a sound government agricultural credit organi-
zation can be established, TBZ would guarantee loans made by commercial banks
to project participants for seasonal purposes and the purchase of equipment
and the government would indemnify TBZ against any losses. As project to-
bacco and maize would be sold through TBZ and the Grain Marketing Board such
losses should be minimal.
iv.       The estimated cost of the project excluding interest and working
capital is US$11.1 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$5.5 would finance
the foreign exchange costs which constitute 50% of project costs. The
equivalent of US$1.4 million would be met from part of a proposed loan from
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the remaining funds would
be provided by the government, commercial banks, tenants and assisted ten-
ants. Where practical, project procurement would be by international competi-
tive bidding, and goods and services obtained in this way are estimated to
be valued at US$1.3 million.
v.        The rate of return to the economy from the Tenant and Assisted
Tenant Farmer Schemes is estimated at 19% assuming full labour costs. If
tobacco prices should fall by 10% the rate of return would be about 14%.



- ii -
The benefits from the Mukonchi Training Scheme cannot be precisely quantified.
The project would generate substantial foreign exchange earnings from tobacco
of about US$2.9 million a year. and project maize production would be valued
at about K 1.4 million annually. The project is economically justified and
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.5 million for a term of 25 years
including a grace period of six years.



ZAMBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project, subject of this report, would assist Zambians to enter
commercial agriculture and help further develop the Zambian tobacco industry.
It would do so by establishing medium-sized commercial tobacco farms for oc-
cupation by Zambians, and by providing training facilities for potential
farmers lacking managerial experience. Additionally, a small number of larg-
er farms would be leased or rented to farmers possessing managerial experience
of large-scale tobacco and maize production. In its request for financing
the Government asked that the loan should cover the development of tobacco
growing by subsistence farmers. Bank appraisal showed, however, that the
plans for such development were insufficiently advanced and that it would
be about two years before such a project could be considered by the Bank.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government with assistance from
Agricultural Development Services (ADS).  This report is based on the
findings of two Bank missions; one in December 1968, composed of Messrs.
M. van Gent, J. Zarandin (Bank) and P. Hogg (Consultant) and which was as-
sisted by R. Grimshaw of ADS, and a second in June 1969, composed of
Messrs. R. Rowe and B. Mehrad (Bank). The second mission was necessitated
by changes in the project proposed by the Government.
1.03      In the agricultural sector the Bank has made loans to Zambia of
US$5.3 million (562-ZA) in 1968 for forestry development, and of US$2.5
million (627-ZA) in 1969 for livestock development. The livestock project
is progressing satisfactorily. Problems have arisen with the forestry proj-
ect; the planting program has been curtailed in view of new estimates of
timber demand and of the wood quality of tree species being established
under the project, and difficulties are being experienced in obtaining ade-
quate numbers of professional personnel. The project is under close super-
vision by the Bank, and given the expected cooperation of the Government it
is anticipated that its deficiencies will be corrected during 1970.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Comprising about 290,600 sq miles, Zambia is land locked.  Most
of the country lies between 3,000 and 4,000 ft above sea level. Population
was estimated at 4.1 million in 1969 and is believed to be increasing at
2.5% annually.



-2-
2.02      About 325,000 of the active population are engaged in non-agricul-
tural occupations, and the bulk of the remainder are small scale cultivators
and/or cattle owners. About 80% of the production of this latter group
is self-consumed. In 1969 GNP amounted to about K 1,160 million (US$1,625
million) or about US$400 per capita. In 1968, agriculture, forestry, and
fishing contributed about 7% of GDP, and mining (in particular of copper)
about 42% of GDP.
2.03      The value of flue-cured Virginia tobacco production averaged K 4.2
million in the three years 1967-69, or about 7% of the total value of agri-
cultural production, and exports of the crop amounted to K3.5 million. While
these tobacco exports represented less than 1% of the value of total exports,
they accounted for 50% of agricultural exports. In recent years, maize has
become an export crop, but there are large fluctuations in production and
consequently in exports. Of a 1966 crop 1/ of 420,000 short tons, 120,000
tons were exported to Congo (Kinshasa) and Mainland China; but the 1969
crop of 270,000 tons was sufficient only for local consumption and 110,000
tons were imported. Annex 1 contains details of Zambian tobacco and maize
production, and of tobacco cultivation and curing methods.
B. Agricultural Production
2.04      Some 1,000 commercial farmers, who farm north and southwest of
Lusaka along the "line-of-rail" - the access from the South to the Copper-
belt (see map) - form the bulk of the farm families who produce significant
amounts of cash crops.  The remaining 400,000 to 500,000 farm families are
subsistence cultivators who cultivate by hand and practice a system of
shifting cultivation to maintain soil fertility.  These subsistence farmers
produce small surpluses for sale, and the annual value of these surpluses
is believed to be less than US$20 per family.
2.05      Most conspicuous amongst the commercial farmers are the non-
Zambian farmers, largely British citizens, who produce about 95% of the
tobacco and 60% of the maize, livestock and fresh milk sold in Zambia.
Since Zambian independence in 1964, the future of the non-Zambian farm-
er has become uncertain, and this uncertainty has been reflected in a
number of ways.  Several non-tZaubian rarmers have lef t the country; many
of those remaining have l't. 8ec their farm reinvestment to a minimum and
have switched to non-labor intensive activities such as livestock. This
has caused a decline in maize and flue-cured tobacco production.
2.06      The strengthening of Zambian agriculture depends very largely
on the lessening of economic dependence on non-Zambian farmers by the growth
of cash crop production by Zambians. The Government's policy of promoting
cash crop production by Zambians has been too slow to make up the deficit
1/   References are to the crop marketed through the Grain Marketing Board.



- 3 -
in commercial farm production which is being caused by the decline of
the expatriate farming community. The project described in this report re-
presents the Government's most significant effort so far to introduce Zambians
into commercial farming.
2.07      While maize (the basic foodstuff of Zambia) and tobacco dominate
both cash and subsistence farming sectors, other important food crops grown
in the subsistence sector are cassava and millet. Cash crops to which par-
ticular attention is now being paid by the Government are cotton and ground-
nuts, and substantial increases in cotton production are being achieved by
subsistence farmers. Presently, a combination of maize and tobacco growing
gives good financial results, but a wide range of crops and livestock can
be produced in Zambia - many of which could be import substitutes such as
soybeans, cotton and beef. Growing conditions would permit a satisfactorily
diversified agriculture, but this can be brought about only by considerable
government efforts.
2.08      The following table gives an indication of the relative economic
importance of various crops and livestock products. The values refer to
marketed production and not to total production. Certain of the figures,
especially for beef cattle and groundnuts, are tentative.
Average Estimated Value of Selected Agricultural Production
1967-1969
Gross Sales Value   Relative Value
Commodity                               (K million)          (Maize - 100)
Maize                                           9.9                  100
Tobacco: flue-
cured                                       4.2                    42
burley                                .1                    1
Cotton                                           .6                    6
Groundnuts                                      1.2                   12
Sugar                                           1.0                   10
Cattle                                          3.9                   39
Milk                                            1.3                   13
Poultry and
eggs                                        6.2                    62
C. Institutions and Agencies
2.09      Governmental responsibility for agriculture rests with the Minis-
try of Rural Development (MRD). This Ministry has a wide portfolio, encom-
passing such departments as Cooperatives and Social Development, as well
as the departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Livestock. While relatively
well staffed both at headquarters and with specialists at the major field
stations, its extension service is weak. In general the Ministry has yet
to have a significant impact on development in Zambia. The Tobacco Board
of Zambia (TBZ) which would implement the proposed project is responsible
to the Minister of Rural Development.



- 4 -
D. The Tobacco Industry
2.10      In Zambia tobacco production started shortly before World War I,
but it was not until the early 1950's that significant quantities of ac-
ceptable quality were produced. In 1955 the British Government undertook
to buy 4.5 million lb of flue-cured Virginia tobacco to stimulate produc-
tion. After this the industry expanded and in the 1960's annual produc-
tion was in the order of 14 million lb with a peak production in 1964 when
24 million lb were produced. In recent years the tendency has been for
the acreage planted to decline. The decline resulted, in particular, from
the enactment in 1967 of a Government decree greatly increasing farm labor
wage rates and fringe benefits such as housing or a rent allowance in lieu.
This, combined with an attractive maize price, and general labor unrest
in the country led to a fall in tobacco production in 1967. In 1968 im-
provement in the labor situation, more settled conditions, and a lower
maize price, resulted in an increase in tobacco production. A further in-
crease to 15 to 16 million lb was anticipated for 1969, but very high rain-
fall - experienced about once in every decade - caused the loss of much
tobacco and a crop of only about 11.1 million lb was obtained.  The 1969/70
crop is not expected to be substantially larger.
2.11      Until 1966, most of Zambia's flue-cured tobacco was sold in
Salisbury, Rhodesia. An up-to-date auction floor, owned by the Tobacco
Board of Zambia (TBZ) and with a sale capacity of 450,000 lb per day, was
opened in Lusaka in 1966. All Zambia's production is now sold over this
floor. In 1967, TBZ commissioned a modern tobacco processing and packing
plant in Lusaka, with a capacity of 40 million lb annually, to redry and
process leaf. In 1968 the new plant processed and packed 8 million lb of
tobacco.
2.12      About 60% (8.5 million lb) of Zambia's average annual flue-cured
tobacco production is exported to Britain. Zambian cigarette manufacturers
purchase a further 3.5 million lb. The remainder of the crop is exported
to Europe.
2.13      Zambia's tobacco industry faces the prospect of falling produc-
tion at a time when Zambia could profitably sell more tobacco on world
markets. Zambian tobacco is 4 n demand as a replacement for the Rhodesian
leaf which it closely resembles. The fall in production has several dele-
terious effects. First the number of buyers attracted to the Lusaka auc-
tion floor has been falling with the consequences of less competition and
less favorable prices. Due to the circumstances which restrict shipment of
Zambian tobacco through Rhodesia, buyers have to pay about KO.03/lb more
to ship through alternate routes. While the Zaubian crop is attractive to
buyers from a quality point of view the development of a distinct "buyers
market" would result in the passing of this transport differential, and
more, to producers. Second, larger government subsidies to TBZ are needed
to operate the auction floor and packing plant, and the prospects are re-
ceding of ever meeting, from self-generated funds, the service charges on



the capital employed in these facilities. If the crop fell to 6 million
lb or less, TBZ estimates that it would probably benefit Zambia to sell
its crop through brokers and abandon the auction floor and packing plant.
2.14      In 1966 the Government announced its intention to develop Zambian
tobacco production to 100 million lb annually (this compares with a pre-
sanctions annual Rhodesia, Malawi and Zambia production of about 200 million
lb); this target appears to have been replaced by the less specific objec-
tive of increasing production to a minimum sufficiently large to maintain
active overseas interest in the Zambian crop and allow reasonably efficient
operations of the TBZ marketing and processing facilities. Such a minimum
level would be about 25 million lb. The prospects for sustaining tobacco
production by non-Zambian commercial farmers are uncertain, and the Govern-
ment is actively pursuing other methods of sustaining and increasing tobacco
production. and these are aimed at establishing Zambian growers as the main-
stay of the industry. Two development schemes were launched in 1966:
-    The Mukonchi training scheme, and
-    The tenant farmer scheme.
The Mukonchi training scheme, an extension to which is part of the proposed
Bank project, trains Zambians to a stage where they can manage a medium-
size (about 170 acres in arable area) commercial farm, and then settles them
as assisted tenants and supervises them on such a farm. The first trainees
will be settled in 1971/72 1/ on farms established for them in 1970/71. Under
the tenant farmer scheme, a limited extension to which would be financed
under the proposed Bank project, Government rents farms of about 500 acres
of arable land to experienced, mainly non-Zambian, tobacco growers for a
period of five years. Tenant farmers grow a minimum of 60 acres of tobacco
and 120 acres of maize a year; and the major objective of the scheme is
to sustain national tobacco production until Zambian growers begin to play
a significant part in production. In the 1966/67 crop year 11 participating
tenants grew tobacco and TBZ estimates that they produced about 4% of the
Zambian flue-cured crop in that season; in 1967/1968, 39 tenants grew 15%
of the crop; in 1968/69, 62 tenants grew about 23%; and in the present
season 72 tenant farmers are growing a crop. Details of the existing tenant
farmer scheme are given in Annex 2. The supply of non-Zambian tenant farmers
is diminishing, and in the limited extension to this scheme that would be
financed under the project Zambians with appropriate experience, many of
whom have gained this in Tanzania, would be settled on project financed
tenant farms.
2.15      The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) is responsible generally
for the field development of the tobacco industry and TBZ was created in
1968, with wide powers as a controlling body for the tobacco industry. In
October 1969, TBZ's activities were extended from tobacco processing and
1/   Throughout this report the tobacco year, starting August 1 and ending
July 31 in the subsequent year, is used to describe time periods.



- 6 -
marketing to include direct promotion of production, and it took over re-
sponsibility for the Mukonchi and tenant farmer schemes. Since that time
TBZ has also sponsored the production of tobacco by subsistence farmers,
the "one-Acre Schemes"*
III. PROJECT AREAS
A. Location, Population and Land Tenure
3.01      Areas selected for project activity are sparsely populated and lie
adjacent to, or within, the existing tobacco growing areas of the Central and
Southern Provinces.  Most of the land is State Lan4  nministered and con-
trolled by the Commissioner of Lands, and the balance is Trust Land. Trust
Land is administered by the Commissioner of Lands for the use or common bene-
fits of the people, but "rights of occupancy" can be allocated "for the
common good". During negotiations the government gave assurances that legal
titles would be issued to all project participants in accordance with the
terms and conditions described in paras. 6.15 and 6.16. A condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed loan would be the conclusion of a lease or a
"right of occupancy" between the Government and TBZ for lands required for
the Mukonchi Training Unit.
B. Climate, Soils and Vegetation
3.02      Climatic conditions in the project areas are reasonably uniform.
Evenly distributed rainfall falling in the November-March growing season,
ranges from a mean of 28 inches in the Southern Choma area to 40 inches in
the Northern Mukonchi area.  guring thg tobacco growing season mean maxiWum
temperature varies between 77 F and 86 F and the mean minimum between 59 F
and 68 F; frosts do not occur in the tobacco growing season. All project
areas are subject to hail, and hail insurance is taken out by all tobacco
growers.
3.03      Sand-veldt soils, consisting of loamy sands or sands overlying
sandy clay loam or sandy clay, are common to the project areas. These
soils are well drained and suited to flue-cured tobacco production.
Topography is gently undulating and there are very few rock outcrops.
Water supplies in all project areas are adequate, and obtainable from
rivers, dams, boreholes or wells. Generally, growing conditions are very
similar to those experienced in the major tobacco growing areas of Rhode-
sia.
3.04      The project would be carried out on land which is covered with
light forest. Clearing costs average K26 (US$36) per acre. This wood-
land is known as "Miombo", and provides fuel which is ideal for tobacco
curing.



- 7 -
C. Transportation
3.05      All project areas are linked to Lusaka by either rail or road,
and lie within 250 miles of the city. Zambia Railways operate the rail
services, and two Government owned road transport organizations provide
road haulage. Outlets to the sea are by the Great North Road to Dar-es-
Salaam in Tanzania, and by the Great East Road to Beira in Mozambique.
The distance by road to each port is approximately 1,000 miles. Lusaka
has a modern airport suitable for freight aircraft.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project forms part of a Government program to sponsor com-
mercial crop production by Zambians. The crops would be tobacco and maize,
presently a profitable combination; the increased production would further
develop Zambia's tobacco industry and increase maize supplies which are
needed for domestic consumption. The project consists of:
-    Mukonchi Training Scheme:  Expanding the Mukonchi
Training Unit to an extent where it would have
the capacity for a yearly output of 50 farmers
trained in maize and tobacco production;
-    Assisted Tenant Farmer Scheme:  Developing and
equiping about 270 farms of about 170 acres of
arable land each for leasing to farmers trained
at Mukonchi, and to other individuals with suit-
able managerial experience and providing manage-
ment and tractor hire services to support such
farmers;
-    Tenant Farmer Scheme:  Developing and equiping
about 15 new farms of about 500 acres of arable
land each, and purchasing and refurbishing about
15 partially developed 500-acre farms, for leasing
and renting to individuals with experience of
managing this size of farm; and
-    Technical Assistance:  Providing the services of
a specialist in small farmer tobacco growing to
assist TBZ in planning and implementing schemes
under which small farmers would grow a limited
area of tobacco - "one acre" schemes.
Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of TBZ.



-8-
B. Detailed Features
4.02      Mukonchl Training Scheme - Mukonchi is located in the Central
Province, about 40 miles east of Kabwe. The training unit is modelled
on a highly successful training scheme now operating at Kasungu in Malawi
where the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) acts as managing
agents for the Government of Malawi. Mukonchi, which is also managed
by CDC, consists of ten nucleus estates with the capacity for growing a
total of 600 acres of tobacco and 1,200 acres of maize. The nucleus estates
operate as commercial farms and provide,in addition to training facilities,
revenues which are used for operating expenditures.  Trai'!es spend the
first two years on the unit's nucleus estates, the first as laborers and
the second as headmen. In the third through fifth years, trainees are
placed in groups of five on training farms administpred by the Unit. Train-
ees manage these farms under close supervision. Any proiits, up to a maxi-
mum of K850 annually, accrue to the trainees, after the payment of full ex-
penses including rentals for land, buildings and equipment, and a supervision
fee. Such profits are placed in individual savings accounts to provide
trainees with initial working capital when they become independent farmers.
Annexes 3 and 4 provide estimates of the operating accounts of nucleus
estates and training farms under the project. Under its ongoing program
Mukonchi is being developed to a stage where it will graduate 25 trainees
each year.
4.03      Under the project, the training capacity of Mukonchi would be
doubled from 25 to 50 graduates per annum. The length of the training
period would be reduced to four years. Four years have been shown to be
satisfactory at Kasungu and trainees at Mukonchi have shown themselves
to be no less capable. The expansion of the scheme would require an in-
crease in the Unit's training farms and related facilities to enable the
cultivation of 1,350 areas of maize and tobacco annually.
4.04      In mid-1969 the first group of trainees completed their initial
two-year course; members of this group are growing their first training
farm crop in the current 1969/1970 season. In 1971 the first 17 trainees
under the project will leave the scheme and grow their first crop in the
1971/72 tobacco year followed by a further 20 trainees in 1972; in 1973,
45 trainees will graduate and in subsequent years the yearly output would
be about 50. To date only about 13 trainees have dropped out of the scheme,
mostly for health reasons.
4.05      The period over which this type of training, whether for tobacco,
maize or other crops, would be required cannot be forecast. But in view of
the expected demand for developed land as more Zambians enter commercial
farming, assets at Mukonchi would not be wasted even if its training func-
tion is discontinued. Farm planning has taken this future possible use
into account, and Mukonchi is laid out to allow its eventual settlement.



- 9 -
4.06      In order to allow for future diversification the Mukonchi Unit
would test on a commercial scale different crop combinations, both ex-
cluding and including tobacco. The objective of these trials would be
to establish alternative economic rotations, and to teach trainees to
handle these different rotations and crops. During negotiations, as-
surances to this effect were obtained from the Government, together with
assurances that its Ministry of Rural Development would provide all rea-
sonable assistance in this work.
4.07      Assisted Tenant Farmer Scheme - About 270 farms would be de-
veloped under this scheme. Each would be of about 170 acres of arable land
and would support the annual production of 20 acres of tobacco and 40 acres
of maize. Farms would be grouped in threes, and while operated individual-
ly, buildings and facilities of all three farms would be grouped around
a common borehole, or other water supply point. Each assisted tenant would
take up a farm equipped with a house, the buildings needed to cure, grade
and bale the production of 20 acres of tobacco, a water supply system, and
two laborers' houses. In addition, each farm would have 40 acres of land
cleared before occupation, and another 80 acres would be cleared subsequent-
ly. The government would lease these farms to the assisted tenants for
99 years.
4.08      Of the estimated 270 farms that would be developed under the pro-
ject about 180 would be occupied by Mukonchi graduates. Of these 180 farms,
about 70 would be developed adjacent to the training unit on land allotted
by Government to the Mukonchi Unit. The training unit would provide a
management service for the occupants of these holdings. Participants would
be advised by Grower's Advisers, appointed for this purpose. In addition
a tractor and farm machinery hire service would be provided by Mukonchi.
While tenants would be encouraged to purchase and operate their own machin-
ery, it would be uneconomic for them to do so in their early years of pro-
duction. It is anticipated, however, that some project participants would
purchase tractors and equipment and develop their own contracting business,
and that eventually the training unit's service would be discontinued. The
remaining 110 Mukonchi trainees would be settled in other areas. Government
is now conducting surveys of potential settlement areas. In view of Zambia's
extensive land resources no serious problems are foreseen in locating areas
suitable for settling 70-100 assisted tenants in a group to whom similar
services as foreseen for Mukonchi settlers would be provided. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained from Government that areas so selected
would have adequate water and fuelwood resources.
4.09      The balance of 90 assisted tenant farms developed under the pro-
ject would be leased to experienced farm workers, and to men who had success-
fully participated in MRD's apprenticeship scheme, details of which are
given in Annex 5. Almost every expatriate-owned commercial farm in Zambia
has at least one capitao (foreman or junior manager) with the experience
to sucessfully manage a farm growing 20 acres of tobacco and 40 acres of
maize annually. Candidates would be carefully selected, as described in
para 6.13, and in the initial years TBZ would provide one manager to assist
each group of 12 farmers. The farms, which would be organized in the same



- 10 -
way as at Mukonchi, would be developed in clusters of 12 and each cluster
would be supported by a farm machinery hire service that would be operated
by the TBZ manager. Fees for supervision and equipment hire would be the
same as those levied on assisted tenants trained at Mukonchi. In 1968/69
two assisted tenants (ex-foremen) grew their first crop, and achieved to-
bacco yields nearly double the Zambian average for the season, and a good
performance appears likely for the five such assisted-tenants growing a
crop in 1969/70.
4.10      Tenant Farmer Scheme - Under the tenant farmer sc!mne about 30
farms of 500 acres of arable land each would be leased or rented to farmers
with the experience needed to grow 60 acres of tobacco and 120 acres of maize
annually. Of the 30 farms to be developed it is anticipaL,_.d that about 15
would be new farms and the remaining 15 partially developed. The latter are
farms which are expected to come onto the market during the project devel-
opment period and would be purchased by the governmeni.; although such farm
purchase would not be financed by the proposed Bank loan. It is anticipated
that of the 30 farms developed under the project 20 would be taken up by
Zambian citizens and ten by non-Zambians. Tenant farmers ould purchase
and operate their own farm machinery.
4.11      Technical Assistance - Elsewhere in Africa schemes for growing
tobacco by small farmers have been successful. Usually the acreage grown
by small farmers is one acre or less. These schemes have been successful
because of the high cash returns per unit area achievable from tobacco,
and the close supervision given to participants. The Government is now
considering such schemes for Zambia, but the 1969/70 season is the first
in which the so-called "one-acre farmers" are growing a crop, and the
number of these is small - less than 20. This type of development in
Zambia has the problem of scattered and small settlements. This dispersal,
and the small size of settlements make supervision of "one-acre" tobacco
development extremely expensive; consequently an effective "one-acre"
scheme probably will require a measure of resettlement. The services of
a specialist in "one-acre" development to assist in planning and implement-
ing suitable schemes and to organize the training of staff would be financed
under the project. TBZ has employed a specialist whose experience and
qualifications are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.12      Fuel Requirements - Project tobacco barns would be fitted with
furnaces equipped with doors to enable the most economic use of fuelwood.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that all
Mukonchi trainees would be settled in areas where cutting of the "Miombo"
woodland on a 30 year rotation would ensure a perpetual supply of fuelwood;
and that other participants would be leased farms with at least a ten-year
supply of fuelwood. Alternative fuels for curing would be oil and coal,
both used in other countries, and plantations of eucalyptus trees made for
this purpose. Preliminary investigations show that one acre of eucalyptus
on a 5-year harvesting rotation would provide sufficient fuel to cure be-
tween two and three acres of tobacco at each felling. Government and TBZ
are investigating the use of alternative fuels, but in economic and finan-
cial analyses it is assumed that project fuel requirements would come from
natural woodland.



- 11 -
C. Development Schedule
4.13      The project would be carried out over the five years 1970/71
through 1974/75. The number of assisted tenants and tenants settled annual-
ly would be approximately as shown in the following table:
Year ending July 31 -             1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   Total
Assisted tenants:
ex Mukonchi                       17      20     45      50     50      182
ex Farm Managers and
ex Apprentices                  12      17     20      20     20       89
Sub-Total                29      37      65     70      70     271
Tenants:
on new farms                       3       3      2       3      4       15
on partially developed farms       2       2       3      4      4       15
Sub-Total                 5       5       5      7       8      30
TOTAL                     34     42      70     77      78     301
4.14      At Mukonchi the training farms acreage and related facilities
would be increased to allow the cultivation annualy by 1975 of 1,350 acres
of tobacco and 1,350 acres of maize. Present capacity is 158 acres of
tobacco and 46 acres of maize.
4.15      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government and
TBZ that prior to the beginning of each tobacco year, the program for farm
development for that year would be agreed with the Bank. This insures that
the program of the development of new farms under the project would be in
line with both the supply of qualified tenants and assisted tenants, the
availability of suitable developed farms for purchase by the Government, and
the need to continue Mukonchi as a training unit.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project cost estimates during the development period (1970/71-
1974/75) and their foreign exchange components are shown in the following
table and are elaborated in Annexes 6 through 9. Project costs do not
include interest payable during the development period and contain no provi-
sion for working capital. They include, however, managing agents fees,
salaries, wages and other administrative costs for the Mukonchi Training
Unit and that part of TBZ salaries and administrative costs which can be



- 12 -
SUTTARY TABLE OF PROJECT COSTS
a,
K(thousands)          US$(thousands)       Fore ,".u.
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exch u;Coe
1. Overhead Costs Incurred
by TBZ in Project
Development
Housing, workshops, con-
struction and equipment      59     33      92      83     46    129      36
Vehicle purchase               1      3       4       1       4      5     80
Salaries and other ad-
ministration costs          404    270    674      566    378    944.    40
Sub-total 1             464    306    770      650   Lh28  1,078      4o
2. Mukonchi Training Unit
Costs
Salaries and other ad-
ministration costs          118    395    513      165    553    718      77
Farm machinery, equip-
ment and vehicles            77    307    384      108    430    538      80
Houses, roads, buildings
and land clearing           574    398    972      804    557  1,361      41
Sub-total 2             769  1,100  1,869   1,077  1,540  2,617       59
3. Tenant Farmer Scheme
Costs
Purchase of farms            150    -       150     210    -       210     -
Houses, roads, buildings
and land clearing           313    179    492      438    251    689      36
Improvement of purchased
farms                        45     30      75      63     42    105      40
Farm machinery and
equipment                    71    284    355       99    398    497      80
Sub-total 3             579    493  1,072      810    691  1,501      46
4. Assisted-Tenant Farmer
Scheme Costs
Houses, roads, buildings
and land clearing         1,731    981  2,712   2,423  1,373  3,797       36
Farm machinery and
equipment                   184    737    921      258  1,032  1,289      80
Sub-total 4           1,915  1,718  3,633   2,681  2,405  5,086       47
5. Contingency Allowance        321    295    616      449    413    862      48
6. Project Cost               4,048  3,912  7,960   5,667  5,477 11,144       49



- 13 -
attributed to the Tenant and Assisted Tenant Scheme. Full project devel-
opment would not be complete until 1979, but development costs 1975/76
through 1978/79 would not be large and would be confined largely to land
clearing costs.
5.02      Cost estimates are based on the experience of tobacco and maize
farmers in Zambia and Rhodesia, and have been corrected for recent price
developments in Zambia. They include a contingency of 10% on all building,
equipment, land development and machinery costs. Administrative costs in-
clude an in-built contingency to allow for possible salary and wage increases.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      It is proposed that the Bank should make a loan of US $5.5
million (K 3.9 million) to finance the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent equivalent to 49% of project costs. The Bank loan would be for
a term of 25 years, including a grace period of six years. The term of
the loan is justified by the expected life of the project. CDC has offered
to make a loan of K 1.0 million to assist the Government in financing local
expenditures for the Mukonchi component of the project. The CDC loan would
have a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, and interest
would be 7%. The CDC loan would cover expenditures made in 1969/70 at Mukon-
chi, and only about K 510,000 would be disbursed against costs in the 1970/
71-1974/75 period. Project costs would be financed approximately as follows:
K         US$        Z
(million)    of project cost
Proposed Bank Loan                   3.9        5.4      50
Government:                                               41
From Budget                        2.8        3.8
From CDC Loan                       .5         .7
Commercial banks, tenants and
and assisted tenants (exclud-
ing working capital)                .8        1.1      10
Total Project Costs                  8.0       11.1     100
5.04      The borrower of the proposed Bank loan would be the Government
of Zambia. The proceeds of the loan together with funds to cover that
part of project costs met directly by the Government would be made avail-
able to TBZ as a direct budget subvention and would not be repaid by TBZ.
As explained in para. 6.01 all assets created under the project would re-
main the property of Government. During negotiations assurances were ob-
tained from Government that adequate funds for carrying out the project



- 14 -
would be made available to TBZ in the form of a lump sum allocation an-
nually, on the basis of estimates prepared following the joint annual re-
view by Government, TBZ, and the Bank of the development program. Commer-
cial banks would provide the medium term loans required by participants
for the purchase of farm equipment which forms a substantial part of the
costs of the Tenant Farmer Scheme.
C. Provision of Medium Term and Seasonal Credits
5.05      Medium term credits to tenant farmers for the purchase of farm
tractors, machinery and equipment, and to assisted tenants  or the purchase
of a limited amount of personally owned equipment such as hand tools and
spray guns; as well as the seasonal credits (up to K 170/acre for tobacco,
and K 40/acre for maize) required by all project par!r'-pants would be pro-
vided by commercial banks. Such credits would be guaranteed by TBZ, which
would be indemnified by the Government in the event of losses. The commer-
cial banks (Commercial Bank of Zambia, Standard, and Barclays) have adequate
funds for these purposes, and have stated that they are prepared to under-
take the business. The ruling interest rate on seasonal loans is 7-1/2%,
and on medium term loans 8-1/2%.
5.06      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an appropriate
agreement would be concluded between the Government, commercial banks, and
TBZ for the provision of short and medium term credits to project partici-
pants; and that in the event of these arrangements failing to operate satis-
factorily the Government would make alternative arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank. Such alternative arrangements, if needed, would be made prob-
ably through the state-owned Agricultural Finance Company (AFC). Procedures
for the collection of credit repayments would be those in force at present;
these are stop orders in favor of the Banks with TBZ and the Grain Market-
ing Board (GMB) through which all project participants would be required
to market their produce. Effectiveness of the proposed loan is conditional
on the conclusion of an agreement between Government and the commercial
banks satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Procurement
5.07      TBZ would let for international competitive tender all contracts
for goods estimated to cost more than US$30,000 and all contracts for
services exceeding US$140,000. In view of the nature of the contracts that
would be let by TBZ, largely farm buildings and land development, and the
presence of agents for many farm machinery manufacturers in Lusaka, it is
anticipated that the value of goods and services obtained directly by TBZ
from foreign suppliers would not exceed US$1.3 million. For contracts
smaller than the above TBZ would use the Government's standard tender pro-
cedures - these are satisfactory to the Bank.



- 15 -
5.08      International bidding would not apply to farm equipment and
machinery purchased directly by participating farmers who would have a free
choice. International manufacturers of vehicles, tractors and farm equipment
are adequately represented in Zambia, and competition is keen. Tractors and
farm equipment are imported from most West European countries, the USA
and Japan.
E. Disbursement
5.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:
- the CIF costs of farm machinery, vehicles, other equip-
ment and building materials imported directly for the
project - about US$1.2 million;
- 50% of the costs of farm machinery, other equipment and
building materials procured locally; building and road
construction, and land and water development - about
US$3.2 million;
- 75% of the costs of principal non-Zambian headquarters
staff of TBZ, and payments to the Mukonchi managing
agent - about US$500,000.
An unallocated amount of about US$600,000 to cover contingencies would be
provided in the loan. Disbursements of the loan would be made against im-
port documents and appropriate records of expenditures certified by the
TBZ Production Department Manager and the Chief Accountant. Estimated dis-
bursements of the loan over the five-year development period are:
Project Year   1       2       3      4       5
......... thousands.
US$                           1,019   941   1,180  1,180  1,180
Kwacha.                         728   671      843    843    843
F. Accounts and Audit
5.10      TBZ would keep separate accounts for the project.  During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained from the Government that project accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank,
and that such audited annual accounts would be submitted to the Bank not
later than four months after the closing of the TBZ's financial year.



- 16 -
VT. ORGANIZATION AND PROJECT OPERATION
A. The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ)
6.01      TBZ would carry out the project for the government, and all assets
created under the project such as farms and the Mukonchi Training Unit would
remain the property of the Government. TBZ, as agent of the Government
would have full operational and supervisory powers, including the selection
of participants for the Mukonchi Training Scheme, the Assisted Tenant Farmer
Scheme and the Tenant Farmer Scheme, and would have the right to expel
unsatisfactory participants. TBZ would also have full resr )nsibility for
"One-Acre" scheme development.
6.02      TBZ is a statutory board formed in April 1968, when it succeeded
the former Tobacco Industry Board (TIB). At Independence TIB inherited the
Zambian operation of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nvasaland Tobacco Market-
ing Board. More details, including financial information, of TBZ are given
in Annex 10. The operations of TBZ are directed by the Executive Chairman
of its Board, who is appointed by the President of the Republic, and who is
assisted by a General Manager. The TBZ Board of nine members is appointed
by the Minister of Rural Development. The Board now consists of the Execu-
tive Chairman (an ex-permanent secretary of MRD), the Permanent Secretaries
of MRD and the Ministry of Trade, three members representing the growers of
Virginia, Oriental and Burley tobacco respectively, and three members rep-
resenting business and financial interests. The Tobacco Act did not envisage
TBZ entry into tobacco production and training schemes, and its provisions
concerning the composition of the TBZ Board are now outdated. A condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan is publication of legislation, satis-
factory to the Bank, amending the Act to allow TBZ to carry out its expanded
functions, and to modify the makeup of its Board.
6.03      TBZ obtains its revenues from operating the auction floor and
packing plant, and from moneys appropriated by Parliament. Since the auc-
tion floor and packing plant operate at a loss due to low throughput, the
Government subsidies are of crucial importance; in 1969 the subsidy appro-
priated amounted to K 793,600, of which about K 593,000 was for the packing
plant alone.
6.04      TBZ was reorganized in 1969, although without legal recognition,
to enable it to carry out tobacco production programs including the project,
and the proposed organization is shown in the Chart. The reorganization
included:
- the taking over by TBZ in August 1969 of the assets
of the Mukonchi Company which, previouslv was a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Industrial Development Corpora-
tion (INDECO) - a State corporation:



- 17 -
-  the formation on October 1, 1969 of a production
department in TBZ. Until that time TBZ was concerned
solely with Tobacco processing and marketing.
The Mukonchi Training Unit is now a sub-department of TBZ with its Manager
reporting to the manager of the TBZ Production Department. TBZ intends to
employ managing agents, probably the present managers of Mukonchi, CDC,
to manage and supervise the training unit as well as the 70 assisted-tenants
trained at Mukonchi who would be settled on land adjacent to the Unit. The
managing agents would supply the Manager, Deputy Manager and Accountant of
the Mukonchi Training Unit; the remainder of the Unit staff would be TBZ
employees. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that
a managing agency contract for the Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, had been
completed.
6.05      The Production Department of TBZ would have principal responsi-
bility for carrying out the project. Assisted by a qualified accountant,
a Planning Officer, and a Manager, Tenant Farmers, the Production Manager
would supervise the work of three Divisions. One would be concerned with
"One-Acre" scheme development and training, and would be headed by the
"One-Acre" specialist who would be finanaced by the proposed Bank loan.
Another would be the Mukonchi Division, and the third would be concerned
with the Tenant and Assisted Tenant Farmer Schemes. The latter division
would be organized on a provincial basis, with separate managers for activi-
ties in the Central and Southern Provinces. The Central Province Manager
would become responsible for Mukonchi trainees once they had been settled,
but the servicing of these assisted tenants would be by Mukonchi Unit staff.
The Production Division would be responsible also for supervising TBZ's
present tenant farmers.
6.06      Staff.  There is an acute shortage of trained Zambians, conse-
quently, most senior positions in the project administration would be
filled by non-Zambians. Most are now in post, including the "One-Acre" scheme
Specialist, and the remainder are being recruited by TBZ. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government that, during the dis-
bursement period of the loan, persons initially and any subsequently ap-
pointed to the TBZ positions of General Manager, Chief Accountant and
Production Manager, would be mutually acceptable to the Government, TBZ
and the Bank, and that appointments to the post of "One-Acre" scheme special-
ist would be filled only following consultation with the Bank.
6.07      Of special importance to the success of the project would be the
Scheme Managers, one of whom would be required for each 12 assisted-tenants
who had not been trained at Mukonchi, and the Growers Advisors who would
perform similar functions for assisted-tenants trained at Mukonchi although
each of these would supervise an appreciably larger number of farmers. Suit-
able candidates for these positions would be found among the graduates from
the Natural Resources Training College (NRTC) (described in Annex 5) at
Lusaka. In obtaining such staff, TBZ would be in keen competition with
other Government agencies - in particular - with MRD which runs NRTC. Con-
sequently, assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that suitably trained Zambian staff would be made available to TBZ, as set
out in Annex 11.



- 18 -
6.08      With the staffing and organizational arrangements described
above, TBZ would be well qualified to carry out the project. In particu-
lar, it would be able to enforce very close financial control of all
aspects of project operation. This would be both because it would be well
organized and staffed for financial operations, and because TBZ auction floor
and packing plant work is seasonal, and in the off season, August through
January, TBZ would be able to deploy most of its packing plant and auction
floor staff capacity to assist with its production programs. Most of such
staff are well experienced both in tobacco production and other commer-
cial aspects of the tobacco industry.
B. On-Farm Development
6.09      TBZ would have responsibility for providing the buildings, roads,
water supplies, and land clearing and development required on assisted
tenant farms. To do so, TBZ would emplov contractors who would be super-
vised by TBZ building inspectors - see Chart. Tenant farmers would super-
vise all development required on their holdings, with the exception of
boreholes. Farm development would be carried out in accordance with plans
and specifications provided by TBZ, who would provide materials and money.
Tenants would be visited regularly by TBZ building inspectors who would
issue authorizations for materials and cash advances in line with progress.
These arrangements are being used under the on-going tenant farmer scheme
and work well.
C. Selection of Participants
6.10      Mukonchi Trainees.  Applicants are first screened by Provincial
Agricultural Officers of MRD. The sole educational qualification is
literacy although school grade standards are taken into account. A small
committee including a senior Mukonchi staff member makes a further selec-
tion. The final selection is at Mukonchi during a rigorous ten-day selec-
tion course when applicants' aptitudes are thoroughly tested. Trainees
are required to be at least 23 years of age, and, in practice, most are
married.
6.11      Assisted Tenants.  Direct entrants would have the same literacy
and age qualifications as Mukonchi trainees; and would have worked a mini-
mum of six years on a commercial tobacco farm, the last two of which would
have been in the capacity of foreman or higher. Selection would be by a
TBZ committee, which would require references from each applicant's
previous employers. This committee would also interview the candidates'
previous employers personally. Successful participants in MRD's appren-
ticeship scheme would be eligible for selection bv a committee comprised
of TBZ and MRD nominees. Details of the apprenticeship scheme are given
in Annex 5.
b.12      Tenants.  Tenants would be selected bv a TBZ committee.  Partici-
pants would have a minimum of two years' managerial experience of tobacco



- 19 -
growing, own a small truck or K 1,000 in lieu, plus K 200 in cash to meet
legal and other fees, and be in possession of an up-to-date and satisfac-
tory Banker's Reference.
D. Leases
6.13      Assisted Tenants.  Initially assisted tenants would be granted
a conditional lease to their holdings. This conditional lease would be
converted into a full 99 year lease on full repayment of the costs incur-
red by TBZ and the Government in developing the farms together with in-
terest at 7%. Assisted tenants would pay for their lease by means of 20
annuities, approximately K 1,500 annuallY. Such payments would be collected
through stop orders in favor of TBZ against the proceeds of assisted-
tenant's annual tobacco and maize sales. A suitable form of lease was a-
greed between the Bank, Government and TBZ during negotiations. This sets
out the rights and obligations of assisted tenants, contains provisions al-
lowing TBZ satisfactory control of the cropping patterns and rotations used
by assisted tenants, and provisions for compensation in the event of a
grower being evicted (for unsatisfactory performance) or voluntarily giving
up his holding.
6.14      Tenants.  The lease purchase arrangements described above would
be used for Zambian tenants, who would be required to purchase their farms.
Non-purchasing tenants, who would be non-Zambians, would pay annual rentals
equivalent to 6-1/4% of the cost of improvements plus an appropriate land
rent. These rentals would not be sufficient to recover investment costs,
but a concessionary term is justified because such farmers would operate
the farms at their own risk and at the end of the rental period the
Government would remain in possession of a fully developed farm with well
maintained assets. The arrangements for these rentals resemble closely
those now used in the on-going tenant farmer scheme, see Annex 2. An ex-
ception is, however, that the arrangements and form of agreement agreed
between the Government, Bank and TBZ during negotiations guarantee satis-
factory tenants an option at the end of the first three years to extend
the period of their rental for an additional period of 5 years (giving a
total of 10 years).
6.15      Head leases and, where appropriate right of occupancy would be
issued to TBZ for project farms, and tenants and assisted tenants would
enter into sub-leases and sub-rights of occupancy. More information on
leases is given in Annex 2.
E. Marketing and Processing
6.16      All project-produced tobacco would be sold by auction on the
TBZ floor at Lusaka. The floor is sufficient for the sale of 2,500 bales
or 450,000 lb of tobacco at one time. Payment to the farmer would be net
of auction charges and any transport or other charges, as well as stop-
pages made for fees, rents and annuities.



- 20 -
6.17      Revenue for operating the floor is derived from a charge of
K 0.20 per bale for handling, and a commission of 2% on each farmer's
gross sale proceeds. A levy of K 0.003 per lb is also payable by the
grower; this is passed on to one of the three tobacco growers organiza-
tions, in this case, the Virginia Tobacco Growers Association of Zambia
(VTGAZ). All proJect participants would automatically be eligible for
membership of VTGAZ. The TBZ owned processing and packing plant is
located in Lusaka alongside the auction floor.
6.18      All project-produced maize which farmers wished to sell would
be purchased by the Zambia Grain Marketing Board (GMB), a Government mar-
keting board. GMB owns and operates bulk and bagged storage facilities.
The Board, in turn, sells grain to local millers and distri'3utors and ex-
ports surpluses.
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS'
BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Production
7.01      Tobacco.  During the five years, 1964 through 1968, the national
annual average yield of virginia tobacco was about 924 lb/acre, see Annex
1. In project projections, an average yield of 1,000 lb/acre is assumed
for all project-produced tobacco. While about 8% above the five-year
national average, 1,000 lb/acre is a realistic estimate for project parti-
cipants. The reasons are as follows: i) the acreage figure used in cal-
culating the national average is that used by farmers in applying for
seasonal credits - most farmers deliberately inflate their acreage figure
to obtain maximum credit; ii) in the Southern Province, tobacco farmers
grow a late tobacco crop in addition to the main crop - while this crop
can be very profitable yields are low and deflate the national average;
iii) yields well in excess of 1,200 lb/acre are consistently obtained by
efficient growers, and the tendency is for yields to rise - in the 1950's
the national yield average was below 700 lb/acre; and iv) intense training
and experience as well as careful selection of participants would ensure
that only skilled farmers capable of handling commercial units would par-
ticipate in the project.
7.02      Maize.  Maize yields are forecast at 25 bags (5,000 lb)/acre.
Yields in this range are regularly obtained by commercial farmers, and
as in the case of tobacco the yield trend is upwards.
7.03      Farms established under the project would be in full production
after approximately 6 years - by 1975/76. In that, and in subsequent years,
total production would be about 4,600 tons of flue-cured tobacco and 42,500
tons of maize. Of these quantities, 1,000 tons of tobacco and 7,400 tons
of maize would be produced by the Mukonchi Training Unit. On the basis of



- 21 -
the price forecasts given below, the annual value of project production at
full development would be about K 4.3 million (US $5.9 million equivalent).
B. Markets
7.04      Tobacco.  In recent years about 8.5 million lb, 60% of Zambia's
annual production of virginia tobacco have been exported to Britain, large-
ly to the two major U.K. manufacturers. Local cigarette manufacturers in
Zambia purchase about 3 million lb each year; the remainder of the crop
is exported to Europe. The Tobacco Advisory Committee of the United King-
dom, which represents British manufacturers, indicated at a meeting held
with TBZ in July 1968, that British manufacturers wished to maintain pur-
chases of Zambian leaf in 1969, 1970 and 1971 at the same proportion - 60% -
provided that quality was maintained and that the total crop would not
exceed 15, 20 and 25 million lb respectively in the three years. While
this assurance is only very short term it indicates the general acceptabili-
ty of Zambian tobaccos.
7.05      Prior to 1965, the Zambian crop was purchased by Rhodesia based
buyers, and was treated as part and parcel of the Federation of Rhodesia
and Nyasaland's overall production of some 260 million lb. Following
Rhodesia's unilateral declaration of independence, most traditional buyers
of Rhodesian tobacco had to look elsewhere for substitute supplies. In
addition to the relatively small quantities available from Zambia and
Malawi, these were found particularly in the relatively low cost producing
areas of Pakistan, India, Thailand, South Korea and Eastern Africa. In
general, however, supplies from these sources were, and continue to be, of
lower quality than either Zambian or Rhodesian tobaccos, and Zambian tobac-
co has not had any problem in competing with them.
7.06      Under prevailing circumstances Zambia should be able to profitably
increase tobacco exports by supplying a part of the market lost to Rhodesia;
it should also be able to maintain this share of the market even in the
event of Rhodesia again becoming a major exporter provided it can offer
sizable quantities at comparable quality and competitive prices. Reasons
for this would be:
-  the similarity in quality between Zambian and Rhodesian
tobacco;
-  the moderate quantities of tobacco involved, between 20
and 25 million lb if Zambia's production plans are
achieved, the great bulk of which would be produced on
closely supervised schemes which would insure quality
and facilitate the introduction of measures to increase
production efficiency.



- 22 -
7.07      Over the past four years the auction floor price for Zambian
flue-cured tobacco has been about K 0.32/lb. This average is not expected
to change significantly in the future since, as discussed in Annex 12,
despite an expected decline in the world consumption expansion rate from
2.3% annually during the 1955-66 period to about 2% in the 1970's, no
major disequilibrium in the world supply and demand of tobacco is antici-
pated. Consequently, in project projections a gross price of K 0.32/lb of
flue-cured tobacco to producers has been used. Tobacco marketing prospects
are discussed further in Annex 12.
7.08      Maize.  Maize would be marketed within Zambia, but also could be
exported, in particular to Congo (Kinshasa). Large deficits occur in the
Congo copper belt which is easily served from Zambia. Zamila has been
asked officially to meet as much of this demand as possible during the next
ten years. Because of the good rail link between the two countries, Zambia
has a competitive advantage in the Congo market over potential maize export-
ers in East Africa and elsewhere. However, apart from the exceptionally
good maize year of 1966, when a surplus was available for export to the
Congo and mainland China, Zambia usually has had difficulty in supplying
national requirements. Taking into account the growing domestic demand
for maize, no difficulty is anticipated in disposing of project maize pro-
duction.
7.09      Currently, Government guarantees the purchase of maize from
farmers by the Grain Marketing Board at an average price of K 3.50/bag
delivered to recognized local collection points. This is equivalent to
US$49/ton. There is no reason to assume that prices in Zambia will decline
substantially in the future. Consequently, a producer price of K 3.40/bag
for maize has been used for the calculation of project benefits.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.10      Farm budgets for a typical tenant and assisted tenant are de-
tailed in Annexes 8 and 9. The estimated annual income of an assisted
tenant of about K 1,600 during purchase of his lease, and K 2,600 subse-
quently, compares favorablv with the average income of an African engaged
in the mining industry (the most renumerative employment sector) which in
1968, was K 1,250; and about three times the average income of Africans em-
ployed in agriculture - in 1968 this was K 356. The anticipated annual
income of tenant farmers purchasing their holdings - about K 4,500 in the
purchasing period and K 7,700 thereafter, and an average income of K 5,600
for renting farmers - compares with an average 1968 income for non-Zambians
engaged in agriculture of K 3,693 and with the 1968 average income of non-
Zambians in mining of K 7,604. The financial rates of return on assistant-
tenant and tenant farms, without attributing a value for the farmer's man-
agement, would be about 26%.



- 23 -
D. Government Revenues
7.11      The Mukonchi Training Unit would require annual subventions from
the national budget since while it would produce substantial revenues
from Maize and Tobacco, these would be inadequate to pay for the high over-
heads inherent in such a large and complex training operation. Following
completion of development in 1976 which would require total Government sub-
ventions of about K 1.1 million, the annual operating deficit would be
about K 140,000 annually thereafter. In addition to this, service charges
on the proposed Bank loan (that part applied to Mukonchi) and CDC loan
would amount to about K 200,000 each year.   The total of K 340,000 an-
nually may appear high in relation to the output of 50 trained farmers
each year; yet under present Zambian conditions, and in advance of sustained
experience of the efficiency of other training methods - such as the ap-
prenticeship scheme - this cost is considered reasonable. Also it is pos-
sible that as experience is gained the training period could be reduced
below the four years envisaged, with consequent savings in the cost per
farmer trained. At this time, it is not possible to determine for how long
Mukonchi would be required for training purposes; but at some time it would
be split up and leased as individual farms, and following this, Government
would recover all development expenditures with interest through lease
purchase pavments. A cash flow for the Mukonchi Unit is at Annex 13.
7.12      Budget subventions of about K 1.8 million in addition to Bank
loan funds would be needed between 1971 and 1976 to complete the development
of farms established under the Tenant and Assisted Tenant Farmer Schemes.
Thereafter, collections of rents, fees, lease purchase payments, and very
small income tax payments from project participants would meet all expend-
itures subsequently incurred by TBZ and the Government, including servicing
the proposed Bank loan.  Additionally, these collections would allow a sur-
plus to accrue to Government which by 1993 would have offset all Government
and TBZ expenditures on the project.
7.13      The long period required to recoup Government costs could be
shortened by increasing the interest rate for lease purchase to above 7%
and by increasing the cost to assisted-tenants of management services to
above K 4/acre cropped. These rates were agreed between the Bank and the
Government during negotiations and are substantially higher than the Gov-
ernment's original proposals. Increases in these rates are not excluded
and they would be reviewed from time to time. At the outset of the scheme,
however, Government wishes to employ terms which reasonably guarantee ade-
quate cash incentives to participating farmers. The impact of the Tenant
and Assisted Tenant Schemes on the Government's budgetary position is shown
at Annex 14.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Using the yields, prices and costs forecast in this report, cost-
ing all paid labor at cash cost, and assuming an average project farm life
of 20 years, the economic rate of return from investment in the Tenant and



- 24 -
Assisted Tenant Schemes is about 19%. Details are given in Annex 15. There
are risks that the yields, prices and costs foreseen would not be achieved;
and also that project farms would not remain in tobacco production for 20
years. The risk of lower yields is not high; those used are achieved by
many farmers at the present time. Project farmers should be more effi-
cient than average, because both of their training and close supervision;
additionally, the trend of Zambian maize and tobacco yields is upwards.
Maize prices may vary to some extent, but tobacco prices used are more
susceptible to change. The uncertainty regarding the latter stems from
both internal and international considerations. Internally, the possibi-
lity of the traditional commercial tobacco farmers leaving Zambia and thus
the collapse of the auction system could result in lower prices. On the
international scene the reentry of Rhodesia to the world r .rket could have
similar results. A 10% fall in tobacco prices would reduce the estimated
rate of return to 14% and a 20% fall would reduce it to 9%. On the cost
side, it is unlikely that farm development costs wo"ld rise beyond those
forecast, or that operating costs, would appreciate more rapidly than an
almost inevitably improvement in yields. A 20% increase in labor costs,
which was not offset by productivity gains or higher prices, would reduce
the rate of return to 13%.
8.02      The concern, particularly in the developed countries, of the
possible hazards to health of tobacco smoking will tend to restrict the
growth in world tobacco consumption, see Annex 12. This development should
not affect the project adversely since Zambia would be a competitive pro-
ducer and a preference supplier (the preference is about US $0.16/lb) to
the large British market. If, however, tobacco farming became uneconomic
in Zambia, project farms would be able to switch to other crops, and to
livestock, and the major loss incurred would be the investment made in any
tobacco barns which could not be made use of in the new enterprise. The
rate of return of the project is rather insensitive to the estimated life
of its assets. For instance, if for any reason, project farms were aban-
doned after a life of 10 years and not used for productive activity, the
rate of return would decline to only 16%.
8.03      The Mukonchi Training Unit would be an integral part of the pro-
ject; but due to the high administrative and managerial costs inherent in
its operation its direct economic benefits - the crops it produces - would
not greatly outweigh costs. At some future time Mukonchi would be split
up and settled, and would accommodate 75 assisted tenant holdings. Since
the timing of this is not known, and since it is not possible to assess
the economic benefits of the Unit's training function, the calculation of
the economic return from investment at Mukonchi is not possible. Nonethe-
less, the value of a nucleus of Zambians experienced in commercial farm
management would be invaluable.
8.04      In tobacco alone the project would generate foreign exchange
earnings of about US$2.9 million per annum.



- 25 -
IX   RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i)  prior to the beginning of each tobacco year the program
for farm development for that year would be agreed be-
tween TBZ, the Government and the Bank (para 4.15);
(ii) the Mukonchi Unit would test on a commercial field scale
different crop combinations, both excluding and including
tobacco, and the Ministry of Rural Development would pro-
vide all research assistance in this work (para 4.06); and
(iii)  until the end of the disbursement period, the TBZ posts
of General Manager, Chief Accountant and Production Manager,
would be occupied by persons acceptable to the Bank
(para 6.06).
9.02      Among others, conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan
would be that:
(i)  Government had published necessary amending legislation
to the Tobacco Act, 1967 (para 6.02);
(ii)  Government had concluded with commercial banks, or
alternatively AFC, and TBZ arrangements satisfactorv
to the Bank for the provision of short and medium term
credits to project participants (para 5.06); and
(iii)  Government had engaged Managing Agents for the Mukonchi
Training Unit satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.04).
9.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$5.5 million for a term of 25 years including a 6 year grace period.






ANITEX 1
Page 1
ZAMBIA
Gi2MCIAL CROPS F.-UIU,!G DEVEPORMINT PROJECT
Zambian Production of Tobacco and 1Maize
and Tobacco Growring Methods
Tobacco Types and Curing Methods
1.        Four major methods of curing tobacco are used in Zambia:
(a) flue-curing, mainly used for Virginia tobacco;
(b) fire-curing for dark tobacco;
(c) air-curing, usually for Burley tobacco; and
(d) sun-curing for Oriental tobacco.
Air and sun-curing are the most simple methods, and in air-curing green
tobacco leaves are hung in the shade until they are dried out and have
turned to a yellowy brown. In sun-curing they are hung in the sunlight.
In fire-curing the green leaves are hung in a barn in which a small smokey
fire is lighted; tobacco cured in this way is a warm dark brown in color.
Flue-curing is the process most commonly used, and in this the tobacco
barn is heated by flue pipes served by a furnace outside the barn. By
careful control of the temperature tobacco of a uniform bright yellow
color can be produced by this process. Virginia tobacco is used mainly
for cigarettes; fire-curing for pipe tobacco; and Burloy and O0:iental
for both pipe tobacco and cigarettes.
Project Farming Methods
2.        Each project farm would follow a cropping pattern determined by
TBZ and adherence to this would be a condition of the tenants' lease. The
current cropping pattern, is based on the following rotation: Year 1 -
tobacco; Year 2 and 3 - maize; Year 4, 5 and 6 - grass fallow (natural
regeneration). Under this rotation tenants would grow 60 acres of tobacco
and 120 acres of maize annually, and assisted tenants 20 acres of tobacco
and 40 acres of maize.
3.        Tobacco production methods would be those practised and proven
in Zambia and Rhodesia. Seedbeds would be sown at the end of August, after
fumigation against soil pests. Seedlings would be transplanted into the
field about 10 weeks later to give a plant population of 7,000 per acre.
A basal dressing of compound fertilizer would be standard and be followed
by top dressings with nitrogen as necessary. Tobacco varieties would be
Hicks, K51, and White Gold, all three of which have given satisfactory
results in Zambia.
4.        First reapings would take place in early January, and subsequentl1
at roughly five-day intervals for another 8 to 10 weeks. Curing would be
carried out in barns heated by passing hot air through closed circuit flue
pipes and would be completed in an average of seven to eight days for
each loading allowing a barn turn-round time of eight to nine days. After
curing, the leaf would be bulked and graded. Subsequently, graded leaf
would be packed in bales of 170-220 lb weight.



AITEX 1
-age 2
Zambian tobacco is relatively free from disease. The main field
disease is Alternaria Leaf Spot, but control measures are wiell established.
Barn rot occurs but only where barns are too densely packed with leaf.
Insect pests are responsible for some damage but are easily controlled.
6.        Maize would be planted in November with the first rains, and
would be harvested in July. Improved high-yielding varieties, both
synthetic and hybrid, would be used. These are already commonly used in
Zambia and seed production facilities are adequate.
Labor Requirements
7.        Tobacco is labor intensive, and under Zambian conditions require-
about one permanent laborer for each two acres plus casual labor at peak
periods. Taking into account the labor needed for maize production, 15 r.an-
days per acre, the number of permanent laborers that would be employed under
the project is estimated to rise to about 4,000 in Year 5. The official
wage of KO.6 per day for labor in the agricultural sector is satisfactory
and labor shortages are not anticipated.
ApriL 28, 1970



Z A M B I A
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMEN  PROJECT
Flue-Cured Tobacco and I4laize Production
TOBACCO                                           MAIZE I/
Crop         Area      Production    Price          Value          Production21    Producer Price           Value
Season       Acres       .000 lb      n/lb     'OOOK  t000 US$    '000 Bags -          K/Bag          '000K  '000 US$
1953/54      14,610       7,990         27     2,157   3,080         1,321             4.10            5,416   7,737
1954/55      13,550       7,610         28     2,131   3,040         1,039             4.00            4,156   5,937
1955/56      14,870      10,100         26     2,626   3,750         1,646             4.15           6,831   9,758
1956/57      12,100       9,260         32     2,963   1,230         2,085             4.00            8,340  11,914
1957/58      12,860       6,770         29     1,963   2,800           580             4.15            2,407   3,438
1958/59      13,870      12,630         28     3,536   5,051         1,537             3.70            5,687   8,124
1959/60      14,830      12,470         28     3,492   4,990         1,683             3.60            6,059   6,856
1960/61      16,950      14,840         28     4,155   5,940         2,253             3.15            7,097  10,139
1961/62      16,870      16,150         29     4,684   6,690         2,327             2.95            6,865   9,807
1962/63      20,390      15,490         34      5,267   7,520        1,658             3.85            6,383   9,119
1963/64      25,110      24,170         23     5,559   7,940         2,136             3.75            8,010  11,443
1964/65      16,250      14,550         27     3,928   5,612         2,139             3.75            8,021  11,459
1965/66      16,970      14,570         31     4,517   6,453         2,804             3.33            9,337  13,338
1966/67      11,340      10,720         44     4,717   6,739         4,163             3.10           12,905  18,436
1967/68      14,640       13,850        31      4,294   6,130        4,131             2.90           11,980  17,114
1968/69      14,200       11,070        35     3,904   5,465          2,749            3.003-/         8,247  11,545
1/  Deliveries to Grain Marketing Board only.
2/Net weight 200 lb.
3/  Effective price; this was raised to K 3.20 too late in the year to influence planting or sales decisions.           CD
May 1, 197C



AlbEX 2
rage 1
ZAMBIA
CONIiERCIAL CROPS FAR1ING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Tenant Farmer Scheme, and Lease Arrangements
for Tenants and Assisted-Tenants
A. Existing Tenant Farmer Scheme
1.    The following table shaos the numbers and performance of tenants
1966/67-1969/70:
Year ending July 31:             1967    1968    1969   1970
Number of tenants                  11      39      62      72
Tobacco per tenant (acres)         35      58       60     60
Average yield per acre
(lbs)                        1,128      923     695    900 (estimate)
Total production ('000 lbs)       434   2,100   2,600    N/A
Percentage of national
production                        4      15      23    N/A
2.     A total of 78 tenants have been recruited and six have dropped out of
the scheme. Of 75 tenants recruited by mid-1969, eight were Zambian, 25
Greek, two Dutch, and one Italian, nationals; and the remainder British or
South African. About 70% of non-Zarbian tenant farmers have been recruited
within Zambia.
B. Lease Arrangements - Tenants
3.     All tenant farms have been, and would be developed on State Land.  The
Government is lessor, and for project tenants would execute,in the name of the
President of the Republic, a lease agreement with TBZ, which in its turn
would issue a sub-lease to Zambian tenants, and enter into a rental agreement
with non-Zambians. All tenants, whether leasing or renting farms would pay a
land rent (equivalent to 1Jd- of K 0.75/acre) to the lessor.
4.     Each tenant farm has approximately 500 acres of arable land and, under
the project, sufficient reserves of woodland, either on or conveniently
located to the farm, to provide woodfuel on a sustained yield basis, for ten
years.  Tenants are required to use a tobacco (one year), maize (two years)
and grass ley (three years) rotation in which the ratio of maize to tobacco
is 2:1, up to a maximum maize area of 120 acres.  Tenants are not prevented
from diversifying their activities, provided they obtain TBZts prior written
consent.
Farm Development
5.     Each tenant is required to clear land, construct buildings and make
other improvements in accordance with a schedule annexed to his sub-lease.
This work is supervised by TBZ inspectors, and must be carried out in
accordance with plans and specifications prepared by TBZ. TBZ provides
funds and materials in line with progress.   Works to be carried out by
the tenant are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Homestead
Bulking shed
Tobacco barns
Workshops
Borehole water supply (the borehole is drilled by the
Government prior to occupation) complete with reservoir
(50,000 gallons) and pump
Piping for water reticulation
Access road
Major conservation works such as storm drains are under-
taken by the Government, but other essential soil
conservation measures such as contour ridges are the
responsibility of the tenant
Land clearing - 120 acres are cleared in advance of
occupation by the tenant
Farm Eauipment
6.    Farm equipment is procured directly by the tenant using either his
own resources or, alternatively, cormmercial bank facilities under Government
guarantee. The major requirements are listed below:
2 Tractors
1 Plough
1 Disc harrow
2 3-ton Trailers
1 W.later trailer and frame
Ridger, toolbar and fertilizer attachments
Miscellaneous equipment (borehole pump and engine
and small tools, etc.)
All other equipment, including a suitable farm vehicle  and domestic items
are provided by the tenant at his own expense.
Security of Tenure: Tenants Renting Farms
7.    The rental agreement is for five years and comes into force on August
1 of the appropriate year. The tenant has an option to renew his lease for
a further five years in the third year of initial occupancy. The agreement
can be terminated on July 31 in any year, by either the tenant or TBZ giving
six months' notice. In the case of the latter giving notice, however, this
must be based upon the tenant's infringement of the agreement's good husbandry
clauses.  When a tenant vacates his farm no compensation is paid, but the
tenant is afforded reasonable time to harvest any standing crops.
Security of Tenure: Tenants Leasing Farms
8.     Tenant lessees retain tenure of their holdings provided that rents and
lease purchase annuities are paid regularly, and that they comply writh a
number of conditions in the lease relating to: good husbandry, maintenance
and insurance of buildings, maintenance of roads and drains, occupation by
the tenant and his family, and a number of general matters.  Leases are not
transferable, without the consent of TBZ, but contain provision for the-ir
inheritance. The leases adequately protect both -the tenant and Goiermieuit.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C.  i ase Arrangements - Assisted-'2enants
9.     Assisted-tenants would be established on both State and Trust Land.
When on State Land they would hold similar leases as for Zambian tenant
farmers. When situated on Trust Land they would hold sub-rights-of-occupancy
from TBZ; the right-of-occupancy being issued by Government to TBZ. The
rights and obligations of assisted-tenants whether holding sub-leases or sub-
rights-of-occupancy would be as for Zambian tenant farmers.
10.   Additionally, assisted-tenants would sign a contract with TBZ agreeing
to pay a charge, provisionally set at K 4.0/acre cropped for the management
advisory service that wiould be provided by TBZ.
11.    Unlike the case of tenant farms, building construction and land
development on assisted-tenant farms would be carried out by contractors
employed for this purpose by TBZ.
Ray 5, 1970



ZAMBIA                                ANNEX 3
COIIMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUKONCHI TRAINING UNIT
Training Farm Production and Trainees' Costs and Revenues
Year ending July 31,        1971       1972        1973 1974 and onwards
Cropping (acres)
Tobacco                                          495        840       1,275      1,350
Maize                                            495        840       1,275      1,350
Production
Tobacco - lbs.                              495,ooo    840,ooo  1,275,000  1,350,000
Nfaize - bags                                 12,375     21,000     31,875      33,750
Value (K)
Tobacco t 32 ngwee/lb.                      158,400    268,800    408,000    432,000
Miaize @ K 3.40/bag                          42,100      71,400    108,400    114 750
Total:                                      200,500    340,200    516,400    546,750
.   . .   . .   . .   .K    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Crop Costs (charged to trainees)
Direct - Tobacco @ K 190/ac  l/                94,000    159,600    242,200    256,500
Maize @ K 34/acre _                   16 800     28,600      43,300     45,900
Sub-total:                           11o0,80    188,200    285,        302,400
Indirect - and accruing to Mukonchi Unit
Rents../                            13,900     23,500      35,700     37,800
Service charges3/                    8,900     15,100      22,900     24,300
Water chargesiV                      1,000       1,700      2,500      2,700
Tractor and equipment hired         31 400     53,300     80 800      85,600
Sub-total:                                     93,600    141,90C    150,400
Total Crop Costs:                             166,000    281,800    427,400    452,800
Surplus accruing to trainees:                  34,500      58,400     89,000     93,950
1/ Estimated cost to Mukonchi;labor costs are higher than those for assisted-tenants
since trainee would not have benefit of family labor.
2/ K 28/acre for tobacco.
3/  Tobacco K 12/acre, maize K 6/acre.
4/  x 1.0/acre.
May 1, 1970



ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUKONCHI TRAINING UNIT
Nucleus Estate Production - Crop Costs and Revenues
Year ending July 31,   1971            1972           1973    1974 and onwards
Cropping (acres)
Tobacco                                 600            600            600            600
Maize                                   780          1,080          1,200          1,200
Production
Tobacco (lbs.)                      600,000        600,000       600,000        600,000
Maize (bags)                         19,500         27,000         30,000         30,000
Value (K)
Tobacco @ 32 ngwee/lb.              192,000        192,000       192,000         192,000
Maize @ K 3.40/bag                   66,300         91,800        102,000        102.000
Total:                              258,300        283,800        294,0d0        294,000
Crop Costsl/
Tobacco @ K 190/acre                114,000        114,000       114,000         114,000
Maize @ K 34/acre                   _26,500         36,700         40,800         40,800
Total:                              140,500       150,700        154,800        154,800
Surplus                               117,800        133,100       139,200         139,200
1/ Include labor, seed, fertilizers, pesticides, insurance, tools, packing and bagging
and sundries.   Exclude costs of farm machinery and overheads, see Annex 13.
May 1, 1970



Page1
ZAIMIA
CORCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Training
1.        The overall responsibility for training in agriculture, in-
service, institutional, or extra-territorial - is vested in the Ministry
of Rural Development. The Department of Agriculture, part of the Ministry,
has within its Extension Branch a Training Section with specialist respcns -
bilities for in-service training and training at the National Resources
Development College (NRDC) and the Zambia College of Agriculture (ZCA).
The University of Zambia is outside the responsibilities of the Kinistry
and students in its newly formed Faculty of Rural Science will not graduato
until 1972.
2.        The NRDC at Lusaka provides a two-year diploma course for
students with five or more C-levels, including science subjects, and the cx.t-
put was 30 students in 1967, 31 in 1968, and 25 in 1969. NRDC graduates
ill be needed to fill the posts of Growers Advisors and assisted tenant
Scheme Managers under the project, and the anticipated output of 45
graduates annually should be adequate for this and other demands.
3.        The Tobacco Section of the Department of Agriculture runs an
annual course on tobacco, mainly on Virginia flue-cured, at Mochipapa
Research Station. This is a course of five sessions spread over the
tobacco year from September to May and is designed primarily for qualified
Technical Officers (NRDC graduates), who are responsible directly or
indirectly for tobacco growing in their areas. The course covers all
practical, technical and managerial aspects of tobacco production, from
seedbeds to auction floor, with a strong emphasis on methods of reducing
costs of production. The course has been long established and trains about
12 officers a year from the Extension and Research Branches of the Depart-
ment. New recruits from the MRDC who are destined to become Growers
Advisors and Scheme Managers would be resident at Miochipapa for the full
year, and in addition to attending the course, would each manage a smaLl
acreage of flue-cured tobacco themselves. This residential course was
started for the first time in July 1968 and is designed to give new
Technical Officers a greater insight into management problems. After
leaving Hochipapa,Growers Advisors would work a further year at IMIukonchi
under the direct supervision of an experienced Advisor so as to gain field
and extension experience before taking over responsibilities of their owirn.
Assisted tenant Scheme Managers wzould similarly work for one year under an
experienced Manager.
4.        The Virginia Tobacco Apprenticeship Scheme is designed to train
young men, who are literate but not necessarily of a high academic stader cr,
in the practical production of Virginia flue-cured tobacco. Apprentices
are recruited from all provinces in the country and are settled on success-
ful Virginia tobacco farms for two years. In the first year apprentices
learn the practical work.  In the second year they complete their all-rour.6
knowledge of practical work and learn the rudiments of farm management and
labor control. Tuition on farmmLaraCa.rL3  -n- theoretical aspects of gryowin
is provided by the farmer free of charge under the guidance of t,ne Dep,irt-
mrat of Agriculture  Tobacco Officers. The apprentica S'eceiveb a h.. aazy



ANDEX 5
Page 2
from Government during the period of his apprenticeship. The Scheme wNas
started in 1967 with 32 apprentices, 50 apprentices were recruited in 1968
and 50 in 1969. About 50 apprentices will be recruited every year hence-
forth. The graduates of this training scheme are eligible for participaticn
in the project as assisted tenants.
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 6
ZAMBIA
CONMERCIAL CROPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT COSTS - MUKONCHI TRAINING UNIT
(K)
Total         F.E.           Total
Year ending July 31:     1971           1972           1973          1974           1975         1976        1971-75        1971-75        1971-76
FIXED ASSETS
Tobacco Barns                      97,200        64,800         86,400         21,600             -             -      270,000         81,000        270,000
Bulking and Grading Sheds          31,700        21,200         28,200          7,000             -             -        88,100        26,400         88,100
Central Stores                      5,000              -             -              -              -            -         5,000         1,500          5,000
Community Hall                      5,000              -             -              -              -            -         5,000         1,500          5,000
Water Development                 196,000              -             -              -              -            -       196,000        98,000        196,000
Labor Housing                       9,700         6,500          3,700          2,200              -            -        22,100         6,600         22,100
Trainees Housing                   12,000        27,000          7,000              -             -             -       46,ooo         13,800         46,ooo
Growars Advisors Housing            7,000              -              -             -              -            -         7,000          2,600         7,000
Roads                               2,100          3,400         1,300          1,700              -            -         8,500          5,100         8,500
Farm Equipment                     20,800         20,800        27,700          7,000              -            -        76,300         61,000        76,300
Farm Implements                     7,800          7,800        10,400          2,700              -            -        28,700         23,000        28,700
General Equipment and Tools         1,000          1,000         1,000          1,000              -            -         4,000         3,200          4,000
Tractors                           36,000        36,000         48,000         12,000              -            -       132,000       105,600        132,000
Tractor Trailers                   15,000         15,000        19,000          5,000              -            -        54,000        43,200         54,000
Trucks and Truck Trailers               -          8,900             -          8,900              -            -        17,800         14,300        17,800
Motorcycles                           300              -                            -              -            -           300            200            300
Replacement of Vehicles and
Farm Machinery                        -         53,000              -        18,300        41,800        64,300       113,100         57,000        177,400
Sub-total:                   446,600        265,400       232,700         87,400        41,800        64,300    1,073,900         544,000     1,138,200
LAND DEVELOPMENT CLEARING
AND FIELD ROADS               88,100         90,700        88,100         57,000        33,700        10,400       357,600        161,930       368,000
CONTINGENCY ON FIXED ASSETS
AND LAND DEVELOPMENT (10%)   53,500         35,600         32,100         14,400         7,600         7,400       143,200         70,600       150,600
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Managing Agents Fee                50,000         52,000         52,000        54,000         54,000        56,0oo      262,000        209,600        318,000
Salaries, Wages and Allowances      7,600         12,800        12,200         14,400        14,100        16,200        61,100         24,400         77,300
Office and Other Expenses          30,800         32,600        34,800         36,0oo        37,300        39,600       171,500         85,800        211,100
Stores Overheads                    3,200          3,300         3,500          4,300          4,500        4,600        18,8           75,200         23.400
Sub-total:                    91,600       100,700        102,500        108,700       109,900       116,400       513,400       395,000        629,800
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST:      679,800       492,400        455,400        267,500       193,000       198,500    2,088,100       1,171,500     2,286,600
May 1, 1970



MXEX 7
ZAMBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FAREMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TENANT AND ASSISTED TENANT SCHEMES, DEVELOPMEENT COSTS
Total      Eachasge       Total
Year ending July 31, 1971        1972        1973        A27         1975        1976        1977        1978         1979      1971-1975    1971-1975  1971-1975
A. ASSISTED TENANT SCHEME - DIRECT COSTS
FA71, DE10PPMEIT (TBZ)
Hoasiag                                  29,000      37,000      65,0o0      70,000      70,000           _            _           -           -      271,000       81,3009     .7_,00
Barns nod oashs                         147,900     188,700     331,500     357,000     357,000           -           -            -                1,382,100      415,Z30    1,382,100
Las.r .noses                             17,400      22,200      39,000      42,000      42,000           -           -            -           -      162,6C1       48,800      162,600
Hoods and sort consermati-o               4,300       5,500       9,700      10,500      10,500           -           -            -                   40,500       2,,300       al>,501
Water sapplies                           29,000      37,000      65,000      70,000      70,000           -           -            -                  271,000      135,501       71,u0C
Land clearing                            30,200      53,600     101,900     140,900     177,300      i25,800     106,610      72,800      36,400      503,900      o51,901      3LS,50C
lao-total:                         057,800     34n,000       612,100   69900 0     726,500      129 S00     106,600      72,800      36,400    1,631,100      956,800    2.972,70')
FJaACsEL0  OF P0S'STC (FARMEB3)
siiour nuoses                             8,700      11,100      19,500      21,000      21,000           -            -           -           -       81,300       2.,400       8 ,31:
c4aipmesnn                                5,800       7,400      13,000      14,000      16,000       2,600        4,500       4,900       4,900       56,200       45,000        73,12(
Suo-tctal:                          14,500      18,500      32,500      35,000      37,000       2,600       4,500        4,900       4,900      137,590       69,400      2S1,a),.
FAR3M MACH_NaiaY (TBZ)
Tractors                                 6o,000      72,000     132,000     144,000     144,000           -           -            -           -      552,000      aal,801      551,112
Far-s -ashlry                            34,00       40,800      74,800      8i,6oo      81,600           --                       -           -      312,800      250,200      312,80,
rosts; replacement                            -     -                 - _         _                  60,0oo      72,000      132,000     144,000            -            -
S-tnto,l:                           91,000     112,800     206,800     225,600     225,600       6o,0 0      72,000     132,000     144,000      864,800      691,802    1,272,800
211LL 9`X21ING CONTINGENCY              366 300     475,300     851 400     951,000     999,400     199,400      193,100     209,700     195,300    3,633,400    1,718,003    o,399,900c
19NTI7NG0N0Y (1Ot)                       36,600      47,500      85,100      95,100      98,900      i8,8c0      18,300       21,000      18,500      363,200      171,3iC      439,800
'.'11 02300? 01070:                    402,900      522,900     936,500   1,046,100   1,088,300     207,200     201,,00     230,700     203,900    3,996,600    1,889,800    4,839,70(
12r FLM3a SCH0; 3 - DIRECT COSTS
1M r4 r7TFh 9P._NT (TBZ)
-,:asi-.?                              19,000      o9,000      12,000      18,000      24,000           -           -            -           -       90,000       31,501        2,.
:s  sal srecd                          44,700      44,700      29,800      1,700       59,600           -            -           -           -      223,500       67,100      223,521
L or ac ses                            4,500       4,500       3,000       4,500       6,000 o                     -            -           -       22,500        7,131       22,511
-s        - and oil o  iasercoolos         600          600         4oo         60c         800           -           -           -            -        3,000        1,805        3,0D0;
-          ae -ppl  es 7,200                          7,200       4,800       7,200       9.600           -           -           -            -       36,000       O8,oo       73,L 6,J
9,400      14,000      15,600      21,800      29,600      18,700      14,000      10,900       6,400        90,400   4 5,203        l1l,a2.9
ao_Lctal:                          94,400      89,000      65,6oo      96,8oo     129,600      18,700      14,00       10,900        6,4OO      465,400      170,703      515,4li
s,O ?3tC HASa (TBZ)
20,000      20,000      30,000      40,000      40,000           -           -           -            -      150,000            -      15.3,
0:: rc: .-. .e.lza  10,000  10,000  19,000  20,000  20,000       -         _             -            -       75,000       30,000      7,,
L30,00      30,000      49,000      6           60,000                           6 -     -            -      225,000       30,D Ou     o5,221
7j.,CoL'a Dr ASSETS (FA&EaS)
4,500       4,500       4,500       6,300       7,200           -           -           -                    27,D00        8,110       9,
12,400      12,400      12,4EE      17,400      20,800       1,000       1,000       1,400       1,600        75,400       63,300       71,jh
16,600      16,600      16,600      23,200      26,600           -           -           -            -       99,600       79,720       59,01
30,000      30,000      30,000      42,000      48,000                       -           - -         -       180,000      1LJ ,        180,0G3
rr nstor r-plaoeeeao                          -           - -         -                 -            30,000      30,G00      30,000      40,000             -            -           110
So3- o a:                           63,500      63,500      63,500      88,900     102,600      31,000      31,000      31,400      43,600       382,000      292,101      519,002
10XJLj iNG 0O0TINGSNCY           177,900     182,500     174,100     245,700     292,200      49,700      45,0OO      42,300       50,000    1,072,400      192,0O0    1,259,402Z
DO'lNlEq5Y (l0O)                         17,800      18,300      17,400      24,600      29,200       5,000       4,500       4,200       9,0oo       107,300       R9,30D      126,000
2002.         : z           .... I   ov'_SCS:195,700  200,800  191,500  270,300    321,400  54,700  49,500     46,500       59,ooo    1,179,700      542,100    1,038 , 0
~i. ErH&LZ ATTHI2JTALR TCt PROJ8CT
F01JJ0TIC00 D3EPARTMIST CNLY)
^:o.-sng unsn_L 0A-nan-  schet es       13,500           -       7,000       3,500       7,000           -           -            -           -       31,101        9,20G       j2,
-ssr A-tenant eclcees             6,000      12,000       6,000      12,000       6,oDo                       -           -            -       42,000       13,100       11,20D
lOoroNsfros                               1,700       3,400       1,700       3,400       8,500           -           -           -            -       18,700       11,200       18,7J1
lc,oLcloo oa:l replasaenesto               600          600         900         900         900         900         900         900         900        3,900         3,100        7,5Z
130-canal,                          21,800      16,000      15,6o0      19,800      22,400          900         900        900          900       95,6o0       36,60D        9,230
Saaroi-s ad allowances                   53,200      74,000      94,600     109,500     118,200     107,200      96,200       85,200      74,000      449,500      143,900      :1,n00
Dffi-e and ntone; spport services        26,600      37,000      47,300      54,700      59,100      53,600      48,100      42,600       37,000      224,700      125,600      .06,01c1
Sab-total:                          79,800     111,000     140,900     164,200     177,300     160,800     144,300     127,800      111,000      674,200      269,500    1,218,100
TCTAL ELCLUDING CONTSNGENCY,            101,600     127,000     157,500     184,000     199,700      161,700     145,200     128,700     111,900      769,800      306,loC    1,317,300
C211TI0GEN0 Y (10% ON FISED ASSETS)       2,200       1,600       1,600       2,000       2,200         100         100         100          100        9,6oo        3,700      l,O0O
Ioron DI0E2T COSTS:                     103,800     128,6oo     159,100     186,000     201,900     161,800     145,300     128,800     112,000      779,400      309,800    1,327,300
00QTAL P2021CC COST3,                   702,400     852,20c   1,287,100   1,502,40o   1,611,60o     423,700     396,200     406,000      370,800   5,955,700    2,741,700    7,552,400
May 1, 1970



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Z A M B I A
COMI1ERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Investment for a Typical Assisted-Tenant
(K)
Cropping pattern: 20 acres tobacco, 40 acres maize (lst year - 20 acres
tobacco, 20 acres maize).
Years 2,
Year 1       3 and 4      Year 5   Total
A. Assets Provided by Government
Homestead                                1,000
Barn and grading shed                    4,050
Bulking shed                             1,050
Access road and conservation                150
Borehole, pump, engine,
water supply system                    1,000
Foreman/tractor driver
houses                          (2)      600
Land clearing                    (4o)    1,010   (20) 520    (20)  520
Total A                             8,890         520           520   1G,970
B. Assets Purchased by Assisted-Tenant
Reaping machines (8)                         80
Platform scale                               30
Humidifier                                   40
Miscellaneous tools, etc.                    50
Labor housing (10) (@ K 30                 300
Nematocide guns (7)                        _                          70
Total B                               500                        70        570
Total Capital Investment            9,390         520           590    11,540
Ncte:  Figures in parenthesis are number of units, and in the case of land
clearing of acres.
i.pril 29, 1970



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 1
Z A M B I A
COMMECIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budget of a Typical Assisted-Tenant
(K)
Year 1 Years 2-5 Years 6-20 Year 21 Years 21 +
REVENUES
1.  Tobacco sales                   6,400     6,400        6,400     6,400    6,400
2. Maize sales                      1,700     3,400        3,400     3,400    3,400
Total                       8,100     9,800        9,800     9,800    9,800
EXPENSES
3.  Labor                           2,080     2,080        2,080     2,080    2,080
4.  Seeds                             106       206          206       206       206
5.  Pesticides                         94        94          294       294       294
6.  Fertilizer                        850     1,200        1,200     1,200    1,200
7. Tobacco packing material           124       124          124       124       124
8.  Transport marketing               520       570          570       570       570
9.  Tobacco insurance                 330       330          330       330       330
10.  Maintenance of assets              27       219          219       219       219
11.  Wdater costs                      144       160          160       160       160
12. Field machinery service          1,268     1,638        1,638     1,638    1,638
13.  Interest and debt redemption      250       284          284       284       284
14. Land rental and annuities          520     1,040        1,040       520         6
15. Supervision and management                                    1/
fee                              160       240          240 -               --
Total                       6,473     8,8          8,385     7,625    7,111
INCOME BEFORE TAX                    1,627     1,615        1,415     2,175    2,689
16.  Tax provision                      20         20          20         50      120
NET INCOME                           1,607      1,595       1,395     2.L25    2,569
1/  To Project Year 10, thereafter income before tax would rise to
K 1,655 annually.
April 29, 1970



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2
ASSUIvTTIONS
1. Yield - 1,000 lb/acre, price K 0.32/lb.
2.  Yield - 25 bags/acre, price K 3.40/bag (200 lb).
3.  Rate K 0.60/day.
24.  Tobacco - K 0.30/acre, maize - K 5/acre.
5. Insecticides - nematocides after Year 5.
6.  Tobacco - K 25/acre; maize K 17.50/acre.
7.  Tobacco - K 6.20h,000 lb.
8.  Tobacco - K 23.50/1,000 lb (includes transport, selling, grading)
Maize - K 0.10/bag.
9.  Hail- K 14/acre.  Field to auction floor K 2.70/1,000 lb.
10.  Based on 2iS of value of leased assets,excluding land clearing
(none for 1st year), and 5% of value of owned assets.
11.  Tobacco - 32,000 gallon/acre, maize - 4,000 gallon/acre.
12. Year 1 - 600 hours, Year 2 - 775 hours & K 2.114/hour.
13.  Interest on 715g seasonal (6 month) loan - tobacco K 170/acre, maize
K 40/acre; 10 year 814 loan for amount of owned assets.
1h.  Land rental - K 0.75/acre at 4h$ for 170 acres; purchase of assets
provided by Government - 7%, 20 annuities (1/2 annuity Years 1 and 20).
15.  K 4facre cropped.
16.  K 20/year personal levy and income tax according to 1969 schedule.  Three
children assumed.
April 29, 1970



ANNEX 9
Table 1
ZAMBIA
C014,RCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Investment for a Typical Tenant
(K)
Cropping pattern: 60 acres tobacco, 120 acres maize (lst year 60 acres tobacco,
60 acres maize).
Years 2,
Year 1      3 and 4     Year 5        Total
.Assets Provided by the Government
Homestead                                   6,000
Composite barn-grading shed                3,960
Curing barns (2)                            7,200
Bulking shed                               3,160
Workshop                                      600
Foreman/tractor driver houses (5)           1,500
Borehole                                    1,900
Reservoir                                     500
Access road (1/2 mile)                        200
Land clearing                      (120)   3,120  (60)  1,560  (60)  1,560
Sub-total A                           28,140         1,560         1,560    34,380
B. Omned Assets
Ja ter pur- and engine                        800
Tractor (2)                                 6,000
Trailer                                       650
Water tanker                                  700
3-Furrow ploughs                              370
Disc harrow                                   400
2-Row corn planter                           400
Ridger and fertilizer attachment              40O
Cultivator                                    200
Seedbed equipment                             150
Manual corn sheller                           110
Tobacco reaping machine (20)                  200
Platform scale                                 80
Humidifier (2)                                180
Tobacco baling press                          100
Power generator and wiring                    860
Labor housing (30)                            900
MIiscellaneous equipment                      200
Nematocide guns (20)                           -                          200
Sub-total B                           12,700           -             200    12,900
TOTAL                                   0,8      40 0  1,760                 47,280
Note: Figures in parenthesis refer to number of items, and in the case of land
clearing of acres.
pril 29, 1970



A!I\NEX 9
Table 2
Page 1
ZAMBIA
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget of a Typical Tenant Purchasing Lease
(K)
Cropping pattern: 60 acres tobacco, 120 acres maize (lst year, 60 acres tobacco,
60 acres maize)
Year 1 Years 2-5 Years 6-20 Year 21 Years 21 +
i. PURCHA3ING FARMDR
RtEVEIXIUSS
1.  Tobacco sales                  19,200    19,200       19,200      19,200    19,200
2. Maize sales                      5,100    10,200       10,2C0     10,200    10,200
Total                      24,300    29,400      29,400      29,400    29,400
EXPESES
3.  Labor                           6,500      6,500       6,500       6,500     6,500
4.  Seeds                             318        618         618         618        618
5.  Pesticides                        282        282         882         882        882
6.  Fertilizer                      2,550      3,600       3,600       3,600     3,600
7.  Tobacco packing material          372        372         372         372       372
B.  Trqnsoort marketing             1,560      1,710       1,710       1,710     1,710
9.  Tobacco insurance               1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000     1,000
10.  Iiaintenance of assets            335        960         960         960        960
11.  Water cost                        432        480         480         480        480
12.  Operation and lmaintenance
of tractors                   2,460     3,010       3,010       3,010      3,010
13.  Interest and debt redemp-
tion                          2,381     2,492       2,492       2,492      2,492
14.  Land ren'al and annuities       1,630      3,260       3,260       1,630         20
Total                      19,820    24,284      214884      23,254    21,644
INCOMS BRFORE TAX                    4,480      5,116       4,516       6,146      7,756
15.  Tax provision                     400        600         400         850     1,500
IbThT INCOIE                         4,o80      4,516       4,116       5,296      6,256
Note: Renting tenants would receive an annual income before tax of about K 1,100
greater than that of tenants purchasing leases.
April 29, 1970



ANNEX 9
Table 2
Page 2
ASSUI4?TIONS
1. Yield - 1,000 lb/acre, price K 0.32/lb.
2. Yield - 25 bags/acre, price K 3.40/bag (200 lb)
3. Rate K 0.60/day.
4. Tobacco, K 0.30/acre, maize K 5/acre.
5. Insecticides; nematocides after Year 5.
6.  Tobacco K 25/acre; maize K 17.50/acre.
7. Tobacco K 6.20/1,000 lb.
8. Tobacco K 23.50/1,000 lb (includes transport, selling, grading);
Maize K 0.10/bag.
9. Hail - K 14/acre. Field to auction floor K 2.70/1,000 lb.
1C. Based on 2?-@l of value of leased assets, excluding land clearing
(none for Lst year), and 5% of value of owned assets, excluding
tractors and equipment.
11.  Tobacco 32,000 gallon/acre, maize 4,000 gallon/acre K 0.20/1,000 gallons.
12.  Consists of wage for 2 tractor drivers @ K 240 each, and variable cost
of K 1.10/operating hour. Total tractor service for Year - 1,800 hours;
for Year 2 and thereafter - 2,300 hours.
13.  Interest on 71% seasonal (6 month) loan - tobacco K 170/acre, maize
K 4O/acre amounting to approximately K 560 p.a. and estimated average
debt service on loans required for owned assets assuming that tractors
and other equipment possesssome residual value at time of replacement.
14. Land rental K 0.75/acre @ h1S; for 500 acres. Renting farmers - assets
rental 6V  of value (lst year 50%). Purchasing farmer - 20 annuities
7% (1/2 annuity Years 1 and 16).
15. K 20/year personal levy and income tax according to 1969 schedule. Three
children assumed.
April 29, 1970



Ai{IEX 10
P'age I
ZAWBIA
COMMRCITAL CROPS FAR2NG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ)
1.     The Board -- a statutory body -- came into existence on April 1, 1968,
when it succeeded the former Tobacco Industry Board which itself inherited
the functions of the Tobacco Marketing Board, set up under the Federation of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland.
2.     The Board is currently composed of nine members, one of whom is an
Executive Chairman appointed by the President. The current Executive Chair-
man is a past Executive Chairman of Chilanga Cement Ltd., and an ex-Permancri-
Secretary of ]1RD. INembers are currently the Permanent Secretaries of MRD
and the Ministry of Trade, three members representing the growers of Virginia,
Burley and Oriental tobacco and three members representing the tobacco trade
and commercial banks. Additional members may be appointed at the discretio.n
of the Minister of Rural Development, and the Board may appoint committees
consisting of coopted members to carry out any special or general functions
if necessary.
3.     The Board is empowered to:
(a) promote, control and regulate the production, marketing
and export of tobacco;
(b) carry out research in connection with all aspects of
tobacco growing and production;
(c) own, maintain and operate tobacco auction floors and
packing plants, to grant concessions to third parties
to operate them and to subsidize, where necessary,
their operations; and
(d)  buy and sell tobacco, if in the industry's interests.
4.     The Act gives the Board very wide powers in all spheres of the
industry, and while, up to October 1, 1969, TBZ restricted its activities
to marketing issues, it has, since that date, moved into tobacco production.
5.     The present Tobacco Act is not entirely satisfactory, since when
enacted it was not envisaged that TBZ would operate tobacco production
development programs and projects. Consequently, Government is amending
the Act so that TBZ may exercise, among others, the following additional
powers:
(a) power to make loans to farmers for the purpose of production
of tobacco, or for such other crops or activities as may be
necessary or convenient to the tobacco industry;
(b) power to sublease land held by TBZ to tenants and assisted-
tenants, and also to impose conditions,either by regulation
or in the lease,in respect of rules of good husbandry;
(c) power to make loans to staf- for the purchase of cars,
refrigerators;



ARIEX 1O
Page 2
(d) power to act as agent for Government, as in the way
envisaged in operation of the assisted-tenant and tenant
farmer schemes;
(e) powiers to issue by means of a statutory order, and enforce
by legal action, good husbandry practices in respect of
tenants of TBZ;
(f)  powers to operate training institutions and run training
courses for the benefit of the tobacco industry;
(g) power to grow tobacco, or any other crops; in order to
cover the legal position of TBZ regarding its operation
of training schemes, such as Mukonchi; and
(h) power to cancel the registration, as a tobacco grower,
of any TBZ tenant or assisted-tenant failing to comply
with TBZ regulations.
Changes are proposed also in the composition of membership of the TBZ Board.
For example, since the cultivation of oriental tobacco has virtually ceased,
the provision that one member should represent growers of oriental leaf is
outdated. Also Government proposes to reduce the representation of buyers
of tobacco, currently three members, to one member representing the trade.
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that a bill proposing
appropriate amendments to the Tobacco Act, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been published by Government so as to enable the legislature to take action
thereon before January 1, 1971.
6.    TBZ obtains its funds from operating the auction floor and packing
plant, from levies paid by growers under the Tobacco Levy Act, and from moneyo
appropriated by Parliament to the Board. At present the ,ajority of its
funds derives from Government subsidies (1966 - K 53,000...   1967 - K 553,050;
1968 - K 814,007; and 1969 - K 793,600 -/), which primarily go towards
supporting the presently uneconomic operations of the auction floor and
processing plant. These are uneconomic due to low throughput, and the
situation can be rectified only by a substantial increase in Zainbian tobacco
production. The greater part of the subsidy is required for the packing
plant, and in 1969 this amounted to K 593,168.
7.    At December 31, 1969, the Board's balance sheet showed total assets
of K 5.2 million and liabilities in the form of Government loans of K 4.7
million. The majority of these loans were for the financing of the auction
floor and packing plant. Fixed assets totalled K 4.3 million -- mainly the
auction floor and packing plant.
1/ The floor became operative in 1966, consequently, the subsidy covers only
a partial year of operation.
2/ These subsidies include about K 240,000 which represent interest on
Government loans made to TBZ for construction of the facilities.



AX IEX 10
Page 3
8.     TBZ's past performance is judged to be satisfactory, since losses
on auction floor and processing operations were due mainly to the over-
capacity of these facilities and not to bad management by TBZ. TBZ is well
staffed, and with the further strengthening of staffing arrangements enirisaged
under the project, would be well qualified to manage the project.
9.     Comparative balance sheets for the periods ending December 31, 1968
and 1969 are at Table 1. Table 2 presents a memorandum statement of receicte
and payments of the TBZ Production Department for the period October 1, 1969
(when it became operative) to December 31, 1969; and Table 3 - the TBZ subsidy
accounts for 1968 and 1969.
May 5, 1970



ANNEX 10
Table I
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA
Balance Sheet - December 31, 1969
1969                   1968
K              K        K               K
EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL
FIXED ASSETS                                         4,267,606               4,381,043
CULtRENT ASSETS
Stock                                     68,417                  46,270
Consumable stores at cost                  59,698                 25,636
Debtors and prepayments                    17,365                  4,701
Accrued interest                           24,220                 19,940
Funds on deposit                         916,800               1,268,000
Cash and bank balances                    409,855                 55,090
1,J496,355             1,419,637
Less:
CU1UENT LIABILITIES
Creditors and accrued liabilities         212,312                174,231
Subsidy carried forward                      -                   137,973
Contract retentions                       10,868                  28,868
Bills payable                             364,942                762,913
Bank overdraft                               -                    10i,096
608,122              1,134,081
NET CM]RRENT ASSETS                                    888,233                  285,556
K5,155,839             KK4,666,599
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
LOAN CAPITAL
Government of the Republic of
Zambia:
Auction floor                            578,000                578,000
Packing plant                          3,612,033              3,294,037
Staff housing                            293,907                293,907
Wdarehouse                               194,419                194,419
4,673,359               4,360,363
RESMIVES
General                                   103,536                 59,229
Miodernization                            111,830                 79,698
Repairs and maintenance                   197,957                 167,309
Devaluation                                64,157
1477,480                306,236
K5,155 839              K4, 666 599
April 28, 1970



ANEX 10
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA                         Table  2
Memorandum Statement of Receipts and Payents of the
Tobacco Production Department for the Period
October 1, 1969 to December 31, 1969
K              K
FUNDS RECEIVED
Government of the Republic of Zambia                                   591,461
DISBURSEKENTS
Administration:
Administration charges                                  1,250
Bank charges                                              582
Consultants' fees and expenses                         18,393
Miotor vehicle expenses                                 1,486
Office expenses and maintenance                         2,304
Postages and telephones                                   218
Printing and stationery                                   458
Rentals of offices and houses                           1,588
balaries                                                9,748
Transport                                                  575
Travelling                                              2,042
dages                                                   6,221
44,865
Less:
National provident fund staff contributions               684
4h,181
Seasonal:
Maize - insecticides                                      399
- wages and crop expenses                         2,458
Livestock - wages, dip and feed                           458
Petrol, oil and fuel                                    3,699
Plant ana equipment maintenance                           749
Protective clothing                                       564
Purchase of stores                                     45,119
Small tools                                               607
Subsidy - lukonchi Tobacco Limited                    141,712
Tobacco - fertilizer and insecticides                     936
- insurance                                       586
- wages and crop expenses                       6,742
Tractor maintenance                                      2,430
Less:                                                 206,459
Mlaize and vegetable sales                               3,816
Tractor hire                                               798
201,845
Capital - production schemes:
Buildings - barns                                      60,352
- bulking sheds                               5,732
- grading sheds                                 878
- houses                                     24,738
- short term buildings                       17,305
- storerooms                                    840
- workshops                                   2,120
Grounds   - water reticulation                          6,375
- roads                                       1,718
- stumping                                   70,281
Moveables - housing furniture                              457
- equipment                                      24
190,820
Capital - administration:
IIotor vehicles                                         14,212
Plant and equipment                                     15,886
Office equipment                                           791
Housing furniture                                           64
Deoosits                                                   320
31,273
NET DISBURSEMENTS                                                        468,m
CASH AND BANK BALANCES                                                  K123 342
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 10
Table 3
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA
Subsidy Account for the Year ended December 31, 1969
1969           1968
K              K
Government of the Republic of Zambia
Brought forward                                    137,973         158,380
Less:
Repaid during the year                              137,973
Add:                                                  -           158,380
Received &iring the year                            793,600.       793,600
Less:                                             793,600         951,980
Carried forTard_.                                      -           137,973
L5ubsidy ApproprJ ated                              K793,600        K814,007
Appropriations to Revenue and Expenditure
Accounts for the Year
Adninistration                                      69,292          44,608
Auction floor                                       81,945          81,757
Export promotion                                      9,164          7,881
Packing plant                                      593,168         604,943
Housing                                               3,173          3,037
Warehouse                                           14,454          19,352
Burley tobacco                                       6,634          30,060
Orients.l tobacco                                   15,770          22,369
K793,600       K8_L4,007
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ZAMI A
CO14M CIAL CROPS FARSUNG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Staffing
A. Qualifications and Proposed Salaries and Allowances of Project Staff
ANNUAL
POST                             SALARY         ALLOWiANCES
K
1. Manager, Production Department - TBZ                 13,000       + 25% gratuity
Experience of administration and
planning, good knowledge of financial
procedures, considerable experience
of Virginia tobacco. Proved organizing
ability.
2. Accountant, Production Department - TBZ              10,500       + 25% gratuity
Professionally qualified, preferably
with experience of the tobacco industry.
Nucleus Estates Supervisor,                          7,000       + 25% gratuity
Section l4anager, Training Farms Manager,            5,500       + 25% gratuity
and Settlement Officer - Mukonchi                    3,400       + 25% gratuity
At least three years' practical
experience of commercial tobacco grow-
ing in a managerial position, appro-
priately longer for Nucleus Estates
Supervisor.  Training Farms Manager
and Settlement Officer would have the
additional experience required by
their posts.
4. Manager (hQ) - Assisted-Tenants and Tenants,         10,500       + 25% gratuity
Provincial Manager - TBZ, and                        7,500       + 25% gratuity
Assistant-Provincial Manager - TBZ                3,400-5,500   + 25% gratuity
qualified agriculturalist with at least
three years' experience of extension
work with tobacco farmers. Proved
organizing ability.
5. Planning Officer (HQ)                              5,000-6,500   + 25% gratuity
Professionally qualified in an agri-
cultural subject, with experience of
land use and farm planning.
Tote:  The gratuity is payable only to expatriate staff.  The salaries given above are
used in project cost estimates, and are generally higher than those currently
paid in Zambia which, by international standards, are low for expatriate staff.
Anril 29. 1970



ANNEX 11
Page 2
ANNUAL
POST                                   SALARY        ALLOWJANCES
6.  Growers' Advisor - MukonchiA.anager Tenants            1,600-4,500
Diplomates of the National Resources
Development College (2 or 3 years' course)
with one post-diploma year's training at
a tobacco training school, and a further
year of on-job training. Or non-diplo-
mates with requisite field experience in
the Civil Service who have risen to grades
ecouivalent to those held by diplomates.
7.  Cne-kcre Scheme Advisor                                  10,500           + 25%
Long e--xperience of schemes for the
develooment of tobacco growing by farmers
growing about one acre each; and also of
the training of staff to implement and super-
vise such schemiies.
8.  Building Inspector                                     3,400-5,500        + 25%
Technically qualified builder with at least
three -years' experience of constructing and
developing farm buildings. Some tobacco
e-perience.
9. Workshop Mlanager
3,400-5,500        + 25%
An agricultural mechanic/engineer with at
least two -years' experience of workshop
mianagerment.
April 28, 1970



ANNIEX 11
Page 3
B.  Curulative Staff Requirements by Years - TBZ Production Department 
In Post       1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74
1.  Department IManager         1              1           1           1          1
2. .'ccountant                   -             1           1           1          1
3.  Section Managers            5              1          11          11         11
(MIukonchi)
4. Training Farns
M'1anager                                                                   1
(Mukonchi)
5. Settlement Mana er           -              -           1           1          2
(Miukonchi)
6.  Tenant IIanager (HQ) and
Provincial Manager          3              3           3           3           3
7.  Assistan-t Provincial
UI'anager                 -              1           1           1           1
8.  Gro-werstAdvisor            1              2           4           6            6
(M.Sukonchi)
9. Manager (Assisted
Tenanta)                  1              2           3           5           7
10. Buildin,- Su-ervisor-         2             3           3           3            3
77.  IJor.shop MIanager3/         1             2           2           2            2
12.  One-Acre Scheme
Manager                   1              1           1           1           1
1/  Personnel engaged full or part-time on project.
2/  Includ.es one NoJucleus Estate Supervisor.
3/  One at Mukonchi.
April 28, 1970



AN]MEX 121
Page 1
ZJMDIA
COMIERCIAL CROPS FAILaING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tobacco l4arketing Prospects
1.        Tobacco production, consumption apnd trade have been expanding in
the past decade. From 1955-57 to 1965-671/, world production, excluding
I'Iainland China, increased at a yearly rate of about 68,000 metric tons (2.02)
and reached 3.9 million tons in 1965-67 (Table 1).  In the same period world
exports expanded by a yearly average of nearly 22,000 tons (2.7%) amounting
to nearly 1.0 million tons in L965-67 (Table 1).  Tobacco stocks, which had
been accumulating before the R?hodesian embargo, declined in recent years.
Another consequence of the embargo was a sharp increase in 1265 of prices
for flue-cured tobacco, the major leaf type exported from Rhodesia.
2.        Developing countries experienced the largest growth in production
and exnorts, and output in these countries almost reached the levels of
developed countries in 1965-67. Output and export expansion in these
countries was almost entirely due to increases in production and trade of
flue-cured and burley tobacco. Favorable prices encouraged area expansion
and yield improvement. Other factors included:
(a)  rising world demand for blended cigarettes;
(b) increased U.S. tobacco prices which reduced the
competitive position of that country;
(c) preferential arrangements for certain suppliers;
(d) ample supply of low-cost labor; and
(e) higher net returns per acre from tobacco than can
be obtained from other competing crops.
The sudden curtailment of world market supply through the Rhodesian embargo
provided a further inducement to step up flue-cured production.
3.        Tobacco has been classified among the commodities of moderate or
slight price instability, which is explained by three main factors:
(a) favorable long-term consumption factors sustained
demand for raw leaf;
(b)  oi,rng to the large share of U.S. tobacco in world
trade, this country's price stabilization policy
has had a stabilizing effect on the world market; and
(c) a large proportion of international transactions is
carried out under Government programs and bilateral
agreements.
4.        About 50% of world tobacco exports consist of cigarette leaf
(flue-cured and burley); 30%0 of oriental leaf;and the remainder is mainly
cigar and pipe tobacco. In the past, major expansion in the tobacco traie
has taken place in cigarette leaf. This tendency is expected to continue
in the future.
I/  1967 is the last year for which coriplete data on total world producticr-
are available.



Page; 2
5.        Flue-cured tobacco production expanded by 2.2% yearly from the
mid-1950's until the Rhodesian embargo in 1965.  Exports increased by 2"7'N
yearly. In 1966, they declined sharply (Table 2) but gradually began to
rise again in subsequent years. The United States is by far the major
flue-cured tobacco exporter and accounted for more than half of world exports
in 1968. Flue-cured tobacco exports from Zambia accounted for little more
than 1% of flue-cured exports in 1968, and if exports can be increased to
25 million lbs, of which the project would account for some 9.2 million lhbs
they would represent only about 3% of present world exports. If Zambia
can guarantee good quality tobacco at comparatively low prices, she should
not find it difficult to dispose of this output on the world market, since
importers are looking for opportunities to replace their high-priced U.S.
tobacco imports. Furthermore, as a member of the Commonwealth, Zambia
benefits from preferential duties in the U.K. market.
6.        Export prices for U.S. flue-cured tobacco rose steadily during
the 1960's, while prices for Canadian and Indian flue-cured tobacco
fluctuated but did not increase until 1965 (the Rhodesian embargo). The
situation is illustrated in Table 2. Rhodesian tobacco export prices
decLined sharply in 1964, because of an exceptionally large output.  Prices
continued to decline after the 1965 embargo, but official estimates are
not available.
7.        The most remarkable feature of the world tobacco economy during
the past decade has been the consumption of cigarettes. Cigarettes contain
a large percentage of flue-cured tobacco. In the United States, for example
flue-cured tobacco accounts for nearly 50% of the total tobacco content.  In
the U.K. cigarettes contain only flue-cured tobacco. As shown in Table 3,
yearly world consuwiption increased by nearly 4.0%p since the beginning of tVe
1960's.
S.        The publication of medical reports on the relationship between
cigarette smoking and health has not yet resulted in any permanent decrease
in cigarette smoking, either in the developed or in the developing countries
although consumixption in the United States in 1968 and 1969 did not increase.
However, these reports have helped to stimulate a tendency toward filter-
tipped cigarettes, which at present meet about half of the world market
demand, excluding that in the centrally planned countries.  Another effec-
has been the rapidly growing demand for low-nicotine and low-tar content
cigarettes, which has become and will probably remain a decisive factor
in the purchasing policy of manufacturers.
9.        World tobacco demand is expected to continue at past growth
rates of about 2.0% per year.  Light high-quality Leaf with low-nicotine
content will be in particular demand.  Growlthl rates in developed countrisas
(about 2%) jill be below those in developing countries (2.3 to 2.6%). Sirce
output is expected to increase at similar rates, demand and supply in the
mid-1970's should be in equilibrium unless Rhodesia enters the world
market at past high levels. In that case, there would be an oversupply
wi-th an adverse effect on prices.



ANM,X 12
Page 3
10.       It is difficult to forecast trends in the international tobacco
trade because of the unsettled Rhodesian situation. Sanctions against that
country have provided a number of developing countries with the opportunity
to enter the international flue-cured tobacco market. Continued sanctions
would soon eliminate Rhodesia's chances of gaining her former position as
a major supplier of the world market, since competition from other exporters
would be too strong to allow Rhodesia easy market access, unless Rhodesia
drastically reduced her export prices.
11.       In view of the expected supply and dermand situation described
earlier, world tobacco prices are expected to remain stable at recent
levels. This forecast assumes that exports from other developing countries
will partially replace past Rhodesia exports, and that Rhodesia will not
re-enter international markets at past high export levels.
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 12
Table 1
Table 1:   WORLD PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
OF UI\U4NUFACTURED TOBACCO
1955-57 AND 1965-67
Yearly                       Yearly
1955-57 1965-67   percent    1955-57 L965-67   percent
increase                     increase
(1,000 m. tons)              (1,000 m. tons)
Developed Countries    1,612   1,713       0.6         4L9     475        1.3
Developing Countries   1,212   1,680       3.3         229     333        3.8
Africa                 142      214      4.2          82      98        1.8
Zambia 1/                9.0    13.3    4.1            5.5    9.8       6.1
Centrally planned
countries excluding
M4ainland China         4L4      528      2.5          57      113       7.1
Wiorld Production      3,238   3,921       1.9         705     921        2.7
1/ Virginia flue-cured tobacco only; exports estimated.
Source: FAO - Review of Trends and Problems in the World Tobacco Economy, 1969.
April 28, 1970



Table 2:  WORIL EXPCRTS OF FLU2-CURUED TOBACCO, LXCLUjIi4G
C `',Wi;1[ALrLY PLkNNED COUN'CRIES, E(,,?01uR C.RICBs,
AV'ERAGE 1955-59 ANu AtdU,W. 1960-68
Rhodesia                                                         Rhodesia
United    Zambia                                                 United    Zambia
States    Malawi      India    Canada    Others       Total      States    Halawi       India    Canada
.................. (thousand metric tons)             .(......... cents per pound).
Average:
1955-59      187        57         35         16        15         310        71.1      57.6         32.2     61.3
1960         186        75         29         16        14         320        77.2      57.1         36.6     71.1
1961         183        83         31         17        16         330        79.4      59.2         32.0     72.9
1962         170        86         55         21        20         352        80.9      54.8         30.6     67.1
1963         183        82         52         16        23         356        82.1      63.3         36.1     71.6
1964         180       101         62         22        27         392        82.2      49.1         31.3     67.5
1965         159       120         52         18        34         383        85.1      49.4         36.3     78.9
1966         192        33-/       28         16        53         322        92.3      43.0 1/      39.3     95.0
1967         193        32A/       46         20        49         340         94.3     43.0 1/      39.7    103.7
1968         201        29-/       41         21        55         347         96.0     45.0 j/      44.3    107.0
I/ Estimates.
Source:  U.S. Department of Agriculture.
ArN) 2
April 28,1970



ANNEX 12
Table 3
Table 3: ESTIMATED OUTPUT OF CIGARETTES
7millions of pieces)
Yearly
Average      Actual        percent
1960-64       1968         increase
Developed Countries                    1,229,451    1,470,500        3.0
Developing Countries                     442,847       575,118       4.5
Africa                                  58,183        71,492       3.5
Centrally planned Countries
including DIainland China              708,916      926,659        4.6
WVorld Total                           20381,214    2,972,277        3.8
Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agriculture Circular,
September 1969.
ipril 28, 1970



ANiN h& 1J3
ZAMB l
COMMERCIAL CROPS FARMING DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
MUKONCHI BRAINING UNIT, APPLICATIONS AND SOURCES OF FUNDS
Year Ending July 31           1971     1972      1973     1974     1975     1976      1977     197802
APPLICATICNS
Fixed Assets                                      588.2   333.4    352.9   138.7       37.1      11.4     -         -
Replacements                                       -        58.3     -        20.1     45.9      70.7     84.5     84.5
Administrative Costs                               91.6   100.7   102.5   108.7   109.9    116.4    118.2    120.7
Operation of Tractors anr Farm Nchirery            64.4     82.4   102.2    105.4   105.4    105.4   105.4    105.4
Trainees' Allowances                               20.3     29.7     31.3     31.3      31.3     31.3     31.3      31.3
Managerent:  Training Farms                        16.3     16.5    16.8      17.0      17.2     17.2     17.2      17.2
Nucleus Estates                      55.0     55.0    60.0    60.0        65.0      70.0     70.0     75.0
Interest aid Commitment Charge - Bank Loan         20.5    44.5      57.1     68.6      75.0     77.5     -         -
Annuity - Bank Loan                                -        -        -         -        -        -       107.1    107.1
Repaymrnts CDC Loan                                46.6     63.9     70.0     70.0      94.4     94.4     94.4    94.4
Total Applications                          902.9    784.4    792.8   619.8   581.2    594.3   628.1    635.6
SOURCES
Operatirg Surplus:  Nucleus Estates               117.8    133.1    139.2    139.2   139.2    139.2    139.2    139.2
Training Farm Charges                              55.2     93.6   141.9   150.4   150.4    150.4    150.4    150.4
Bank Loan                               1/        392.7    271.3    235.6   128.5       78.5     _        _         -
CDC Loan                           /       O6]-   320.0    174.0     -        -         -        -         _        _
S&ib-total                                 885.7    672.0   516.7    418.1   368.1    289.6   289.6    289.6
Budget Subvention                                  17.2    112.4   276.1    201.7   213.1    304.7    338.5    346.0
Total Sources                               902.9    784.4    792.8   619.8   581.2    594.3   628.1    635.6
SOM-                -                    =      -        -         -
1/ Portion of CDC loan made to finance 1970/71 expenditures.
2/  Until such time as training is discontinued and Mukonchi is split up into individual farrs.



I A M 8 I A
SiM!CRdL G307,9 TAPRrM3 DJ5VL016i=  dOI
TWU3r AND lMsBTD-TWPA)r SnVMrSs lliAoS ON OOISUWN bUAR ?WMMCI
Year Sndirfi J.ry 31,         1971     1972      m973     197h      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979     1950      1981      1982     1983      19S4      1985     1986    1957'    1985    1989    2990    1991    1992   1993    1994   1995   1996   1997
Ai TLCATIOM E 
FaraI 000.109m9t1
Akltoted-T.eoots                    257.8   344.o    612.1    699.1    726.9        125.8    106.6       72.6     36.4      -         -         -        -         -         -         -       -        -        -        -        -
F rt Seohi-ry Poo1
(p-rh... aod rpaeet)
A,piat.dT7e-eel,                     94.0   112.8    296.8    225.6    225.6         60.0      72.0    132.0    111.0    114.0    95.0    112.8    206.8    225.6    225.6            60.0    72.0   132.0   144.0   1J4.0   114.0          _       _       _       _       _       _
F.a n    -10pmn-t T70.-M.             914.4    99.0     60.6    116.8    149.6        15.7      14.0      10.9      6.4      -         -
(are Ponl, T0.50t.                    20.0    20.0      30.0      4.0.0     10.9      -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -                  -        -        -        --                         -      -       --                      -
7TB ldelol   Ser 001                 103.0   1250 .6    159.1    186.9    201. 9     161.8    145.3    128.8    12.0    112.0    112.0    100.0           90.0      59.0      70.0     60.0     -        -        -        -                 -       -
Sub-total                       570.0   701.1  1088.6  1,25B.8  1,3h3.9       366.3    337.9    344.5    298.8    256.0    206.0    212.8    296.8    3o5.6    295.6    120.0    72.0   132.0   144.0    141.0   111.0
Inte-et and C-,eot-et
'I.95  - Baok I...                   31.6    51.6      86.1    127.1    173.6       197.1      -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -        -
A-.,aiy - 9.01 2.0n                    -       -         -        _         _         _        272.9     272.9    272.9    272.2.     9 2       2    72 22.9    272.9    272.9    272.9   272.9   272.9   272.9   272.9    29    272.9  272.9  272.9  272.9  272.9  272.9
S.b-total                        31.6    54.6      86.1    127.4    173.6      .97..    272.9                         272.9    272.9    273 .9    272.9    272.9    272.9    272.9   272.9   272.5   072.9   272.9   272.9   272 .9  272.9  272.9  272.9  272.;  272.9
OT7LL kiFLICATIOlS                     601.6   759.0  1,174.7  1,386.2  1.517.5        661.7    610.8    617.1    571.7    52B.9    178.9    1985.7    569.7    575.5    568.5    392.9   3bb.9   101.9   b16.9   416.9   2,16.9   272.9  272.9  272.9  272.9   272.   272.9
S..k Lwn                             335.6   399.8    606.9    711.0    764.0         -         -         -        .         -                  -         -         .         .                 -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -          -           -
Soot, -nd Ao,otil.s T000.t.          -         7.1      21.2     35.3      52.7      75.0      86.9      86.9     86.9      56.9      86.9     86.9      86.9      86.9      86.9     86.9    66.9    86.9    86.9    86.9    86.9    82.0   72.3   62.5   49.4   31.5   21.7
ent. and Al n1ti.,,
A6..etd-7-nt-                        .        15.1     49.b    102.1    172.6       2b15.     281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8    281.8   281.8   281.8   281.8   281.8   281.8   266.8  232.6  179.8  110.0   37.6    1.6
A0s.0t.dnT-nant.          oZ                   4.8      12.8     26.4      L2.8      59.6      65.2      65.2     65.2      65.2      65.2     58.2      52.3      46.6      10.8      31.9    -        -        -        -        -        -       .               -       -
Vr-ct-n and Mn.hi-ey M-10 Fe- -       -        13.9      35.7     72.1     11.9      15S.2    169.o    168.0    068.0    168.0    169.0    165.0    168.0    168.0    268.0    169.0   168.0   168.0   168.0   168.0   168.0   157.0  127.1   86.8   b3.4b    -
S0b-tt0.1                       335.6   440.7    726.0    950.2  1,116.9       538.2    601.9    601.9    601.9    601.9    661.9    594.9    5B9.0    583.3    577.5    571.6   536.7   536.7   536.7   536.7   536.7   498.8  432.0  329.1  202.8   69.1   23.3
7.-.00.1 Oono2n  T.. 00l21gti       -         2.6       5.3      8.6      12.       17.7.                        17.1      17.1      17.4,    17.       17.1      17.1     17.1      17.1    17.b      17.4    17.4      17.4    17.4    19.5   05.5   36.0   41.3   67.6   77.0
T0711A 96L00                           335.6   13.3    731.3    955.8  1.159.7         965.1    619.3    61.                        69.1         612.3      6559.0    51.1   55.1_ 54.1L  55.1   51.1   518.3   W.                                          365.1  211.1  136.    CC.3
Ael Sarpln  (oDficit)                  (266.0) (315.7)  (443.1)   (427.4)  (357.5)      (8.15      8.5       1.9     47.6      90.4    140.1    326.6       36.7      22.2      26.4    196.1   209.2   149.2   137.2   137.2   137.2   215.4  157.9   92.2  (20.5) (131.2) (172.6)
CogUtlv, Sarpla (Li it)               (266.o) (501.7) (125.11 (1.i42.5) (1,8102. 1.3) (1,10.1             (1.80.91 (1.58.O)i (1.76.1)  (1.670.3) (1.529.6) (1.103.0) (1.3   .3) (11.31.1) (1,317.7) (1,121.6) (912.4)  (763.2)  (626.0) (188.8)  (351.6) (106.1)  51.8  17h.0  115.2   32.0  (161.6)
ii8t ofoni.,tpi,
3;' ZL.0 ant aingi d prnoi tlea0.0 e.ortittiOaa ooly. I
_/  Tbo.5. rlee ,eied  -ia    paiti-o ilre --th 10 reo_ e..od to bl  r-nted by eot:o2 A0P 9e0lo.ted  co_tl. in th,. pret lOfbtit  Ia Zabi.  h6 enald p-r.hee  .e1 ....
m8y 5, 1970



upF-.MxX 15~
Page 1
COITMERCIAL CROPS FARIING DEVELOPIZ T PROJECT
Rate of Return - Assisted-Tenant and Tenant Farmer Schemes
1.     This annex shows the calculation of the economic rate of return from
investment in the Tenant and Assisted-Tenant Scheme components of the project.
The following assumptions and inputs have been used in the calculations:
Project Life
2.     The life of the project is assumed to be 25 years as from Project Yeax
1. Crop production begins in the year following development of each farm.
Each farm is assumed to have a productive life of 20 years, the last group of
farmers producing benefits until 1995.
Costs
3.    A. Development Costs
These are derived from Annex 7, sections A and B,which shows the direct
costs for both Schemes.  The following changes are made in the rate of return
table presented. Because of anticipated time lags involved in the actual
implementation of certain scheme development, items like curing barns and
roads, only half of the anticipated development costs is assumed to be
incurred in the first year. The residual is assumed to be incurred in the
second year. Hence, from 1972 onwards, residual scheme development costs
of each preceding year are added to half the costs of the subsequent year.
B. Asset Replacements
Asset replacements prior to 1980 are covered in Scheme Development
Costs (Annex 7). For subsequent years, assets which have a productive life
of less than 20 years are included in the average figure for 1980-1991.
Tractors are assumed to need replacement after five years and other farm
machinery after 10 years.
For assisted-tenants the average cost of replacements is made up of
two components:
(i) replacement costs of tractor and farm machinery equipment
incurred by TBZ; and
(ii) replacement costs of boreholes and other equipment incurred
directly by the farmer.
For tenants, the responsibility for replacing tractors, farm machinery
and other equipment is their own and an average cost has been calculated
for the period 1980-1991.
C. Tenant Operating Costs
These are derived from the farm budget of a typical tenant (Annex 9,
Table 2). They cornprise the expenses incurred by a typical tenant wijt tho
exception of interest, debt redemption and land rentals and anru-tioL, rhe



Page 2
total cost for each year depends on the number of the participants in the
Tenant Scheme for that particular year. (See table in para. 4.13 of the main
report.)
D. Assisted-Tenant Operatinp,Costs
These are derived from the annual farm budget of a typical assisted-
tenant (Annex 8, Table 2) with the same omissions as in (C) and excluding
supervision fees. Field machinery hire charges (K .80/hr) which cover
amortization of the equipment,have been deducted since machinery purchase
and replacement is included in scheme development costs and asset development
costs.
E. TBZ Overhead Costs
These are derived from Annex 14, and incorporate the assumption that
10 years' supervision of each assisted-tenant and tenant farmer would be
adequate. For 1970/71, it is assumed that only half of the allocated over-
head would be incurred.
Benefits
4.    These are based on the followqing yields and prices:
Tobacco - 1,000 lbs/acre, K 0.32/Lb
Mlaize   -   25 bags/acre, K 3.4/bag
May 5, 1970



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Z A MB I A
COMMERCIAL CROFS FAfIW; DdVELOPMWrE PRO0JCT
SCONOMIC RATE CF lETURN: TENANr AND ASSISTED-T5&Nr SCEYES
- (K 000)
Average
Year Ending JulY 31          1971      1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979    1980-1991   1992        1993       1994       1995
APEA CROPPED
Tobacco (acres)                                 880     1,920      3,520     5,340      7,220     7,220      7,220     7,220      7,220      6,340      5,300     3,700      1,880
Maize (acres)                                   880     2,800      5,440     8,860    12,560    14,440    14,440    14,440    14,440    12,680    10,600          7,400      3,760
PRODUC TI ON
Tobacco (1000 lbs)/                             880     1,920      3,520     5,340      7,220     7,220      7,220      7,220     7,220      6,340      5,300      3,700     1,880
Maize ('000 bags) 2/                             22        70        136       222        314       361        361        361       361        317        265        185        94
BENEFIT S
Value Tobacco 3                                 281.6     614.4   1,126.4   1,708.8   2,310.4   2,310.4   2,310.4   2,310.4   2,310.4   2,028.8   1,696.0   1,184.0            601.6
Value Maize   4'                                 74.8     238.0      462.4      754.8   1,067.6   1,227.4   1,227.4   1,227.4   1,227.4   1,077.8         901.0      629.0     319.6
Total Benefits                            356.4     852.4   1,588.8   2,463.6   3,378 C   3,537.8   3,537.8   3,537.8   3,537.8   3,106.6   2,597jo   1,813.0            921.2
COSTS
Asst. Tenant Scheme Development       201.4    462.8      729.6      991.2   1,067.1      647.7     204.3      216.0      217.2        8.5      -          _
Tenant Schmze  Development      ,       97.9    198.3     196.2      230.9      295.7     187.9       52.0      48.0       50.8        2.3      _          -          _          _
Asst. Tenant Asset Replacrent          -          - -        -         -         -         -          -         -                   1142.4
Tenant Asset Replacement -             -          -         -          -         _         _          _         _          _         53.4       -          _          _          _
Asst. Tenant Oparating Costs           -        146.8     361.4      725.2   1,140.5   1,560.6   1,626.3   1,626.3   1,626.3   1,626.3   1,452.2   1,230.2           840.1     420.1
Tenant Operatirg Costs                  -        79.0     171.7      267.4      394.6     543.2      569.2     574.0      574.0     574.0      478.3      382.6      286.9     153.0
TBZ Overhead                           51.9    128.6      159.1      186.0      201.9     161.8     145.3      128.8      112.0      52.0                  -          -          -
Total Costs                     351.2  1,015.5   1,618.0   2,400.7   3,099.8   3,101.   2,597.1   26593.1   2,580.3   2.458.95   1,612.8                                 573.1
ANNUAL SURPLTB (DEFICIT)                (351.2)  (659.1)   (765.6)   (811.9)   (636.2)    276.8        940.7     944.7      957.5   1,078.9   1,176.1       984.2      686.0    3148.1
ECONOMIC RATE CF RETURN       19.17%
1/ Average yield = 1,000 lb/acre.
2/ Average yield = 25 bags/acree.
3/ At K 0.32/lb.
4/ At K 3.40/bag.
5/  Asset Replaoemnt prior to 1980 is covered in Scheme Development Costs.
May 1, 1970



ZAMBIA: COMMERCIAL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN)
GENERAL MANAGER
SECRETARY                                                CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
PACKING PLANT DEPT.                           PRODUCTION DEPT.                           AUCTION FLOOR DEPT.
|   MANAGER         l
MANAGER           l           l                     MANAGER
MANAGER,MUKONCH-1I                                              TENANT AND ASSISTED                              TRAINING AND SMALL FARMER
TENANT SCHEMES                                   SCHEME DEVELOPMENT
(RESPONSIBILITY FOR SETTLEMENT)
MANAGER                            MANAGER
|    (Central Province)                 (Southern Province)
TRAINING FARM   l      lSETTLE                              ASSISTANT
MANAGER           l     OFFICER                           MANAGER
SECTION MANAGER                          GROWER ADVISERS                    SCHEME MANAGERS                   SCHEME MANAGERS              TRAINING FARMS
_       WORKSHOP MANAGER                   WORKSHOP MANAGER                                               ONE ACRE SCHEMES
_]      BUILDING INSPECTOR                 BUILDING INSPECTORS         -      BUILDING INSPECTOR
z
rz
IBRD - 4498(R)



COMMECIALFARMING                                                    
s-SH:Xa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b =    aH
DEVELOPMNT PROJECT              a 
PROPSEDPROECTSITES                      -ooo
S  .  0 itd: <<sEo<PlloWcejTes   0    t     '    <r:'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .....
EXISTING  TOBACCO GROW~~~ING AREASIV            hN
I                                            ____________  ___________________  ___________________
g~ ~~~~~~~~~~ L. Y,',!



