Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE. ONLY
MICROFICHE  COPY
Report No.  10189-KO   Type:  (             SARt lportNo              -
R~EES, W.   / 281210 / R9 033/ ASI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
XOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS 1DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
n¶ARCR 2Z, 1992
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents tmay not otherwise be dilsclosed without Wor)dld1ank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W 730
(November 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
BE        - Board of Education
EFB       - Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD      - Education Loan Projects Division
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
KEDI      - Korea Educational Development Institute
KOMA      - Korea Manpower Agency
MOE       - Ministry of Education
O&M       - Operations and Maintenance
OSROK     - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCIZ      - Project Completion Report
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
SOE       - Statements of Expenditure
SOP       - Supervised Occupational Program
STD       - Science and Technical Division
TAP       - Technology Advancement Project
VED       - Vocational Education Division
VET       - Vocational Education and Training
VHS       - Vocational High School
VTI       - Vocational Training Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
PlZe No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.  VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN KOREA  . . .1. . . .
A.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Vocational Training Institutes . . . . . . . . . . .                     2
C. Vocational High Schools.  . . . . . . . . . . . .                         5
D.  Bank's Experience in Education . . . . . . . . . . .                    12
II. THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       14
A.  Origin of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    14
B.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope  . . . . . .                    14
C.  Project Design and Description . . . . . . . . . . .                   15
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . .                     18
A.  Costs    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  18
B.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . .                   20
D.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   23
E.  Impact on Women  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   23
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    24
A.  Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
B.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . .                    24
The report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during July-August 1991 and an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
W.E. Rees (mission leader), S.Z. Sung and J.J. Stewart (consultants), which
visited Korea during November 1991. Peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Segerstrom
(ASTPH) and R. McGough (ASTPH). The documents were reviewed by Messrs.
Bradley 0. Babson, Chief, EAlPH, and Callisto Madavo, Director, EAL.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official d'uties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii .
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1  Enrollments in Vocational High Schools.  . . . . . . .             5
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . .            18
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure               19
3.3  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .            20
3.4  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements . . . . .            22
ANNEXES
1.  Structure of Craftsman Training in Vocational Training Institutes
2. Output of Trained Craftsmen from Vocational Training Institutes
3. Enrollments by Course in Vocational High Schools
4. Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
5. Chart - Organization of a Board of Education
6. Chart - Procedures for Equipment Procurement
7. Action Plan for Institutional Strengthening of the Vocational
High School System
8. Detailed Project Costs
9. Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
10. Implementation Schedule
11.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP,



* iii -
KORE
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower           : Republic of Korea
Beneficiary        : Not applicable
Amaunt             : US$30 million equivalent
Terms                Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
D2ggrlDtLon      :The objectives of the project are to assist in upgrading
the skill training provided in selected vocational high
schools and to enhance the effectiveness of vocational
education. The project would include specialized
equipment to be financed by the Bank (US$30.0 million
excluding contingencies) for technical, commercial and
agricultural vQcational high schools. The Government
would finance complementary inputs related to making the
equipment operational and maintaining it thereafter,
namely local transportation and installation costs, O&M
and consumables (US$18.4 million). The project would
also include policy studies (US$0.2 million), to be
financed by the Government, which would address problem
areas in vocational education and make appropriate
recommendations for their solution. The recommendations
would be implemented according to an agreed action plan.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would provide selected vocational high
schools with modern equipment which would be closely
attuned to the increasingly complex equipment utilized in
the industrial, commercial and agricultural sectors.
This would result in improved training which would
enhance the value of vocational high school graduates to
prospective employers by increasing their usefulness
immediately upon graduation and by improving their
ability to adjust to technological change in the
workplace.   Policy improvements resulting from the
studies of problem areas would lead to a more relevant
and effective vocational education system. There are no
major risks associated with the project.



- iv -
Kgroect Costs:
Local     FEori&U      Total
..- (US$ million)-
Technical Schools                           5.7       17.0        22.7
Agricultural Schools                        2.9        8.7        11.6
Commercial Schools                          1.8        5.5         7.3
Policy Studies                              0.2           -        0.2
Baseline Cost                              10._6      31.2        41.8
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.5        1.6         2.1
Price increase                            1.4        3.1         4.5
Subtotal                              169 4.7                 6.6
Total Proiect Cost                           125         _35.9      48.4
Fin   in& Elan:                              Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                                 12.5        5.9        18.4
IBRD                                         -        30.0        30.0
Total                                   12.5       35.9        48.4
Estimated Disbursements:
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
bank FY
Annual                             2.0   10.0   10.0    6.0    1.5    0.5
Cumulative                         2.0   12.0   22.0   28.0   29.5   30.0
/   Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.6 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 23476



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1       An expanding education and training system in Korea has made a major
contribution to the country's impressive growth over the past three decades.
Growth and structural change in the economy were matched by adjustments in the
education and training system to keep pace with these trends. In the 1960s
when economic development was based largely on labor-intensive light
industries (textiles, footwear, etc.), the demand for highly skilled workers
was relatively modest and the major need was for developing the basic educa-
tion and skills of a rapidly expanding workforce. Thus priority was given to
the expansion of primary and lower secondary education with the result that
universal primary education was achieved by 1970 and lower secondary for all
by the late seventies. With the shift towards development of heavy and chemi-
cal industries in the 1970s and the increasing export orientation of industry
in general, the demand for skilled workers increased rapidly and greater
attention was given to vocational education and training. As industry evolved
towards increasingly technology-intensive production and high export volumes
in the 1980s, skill requirements became increasingly complex and fast-changing
and more emphasis was therefore placed on improving the quality of skills
training. At the same time, high technology development required an expansion
of training of scientists and engineers with the result that the 1980s saw a
rapid growth of enrollments in science and technology programs in the univer-
sities, especially at the graduate level.
1.2       Skilled workers or craftsmen occupy the base of the skill pyramid
supporting technicians, trained in the junior colleges, and engineers and
technologists who are university-trained. In Korea, a distinction is made
between vocational education and vocational training although both systems
produce skilled craftsmen. Vocational education is undertaken in public
vocational high schools (VHSs) which are part of the public secondary
education system (along with general high schools) under the overall direction
of the Ministry of Education (MOE). Private VHSs receive financial support
from, and are closely regulated by, MOE. Selected VHSs will be assisted under
the proposed project. VHS students continue their general education while
pursuing vocational specializations. Vocational training institutes (VTIs),
which may be public or private, provide more narrowly-based skill training to
school-leavers. Graduates of both types of institutions must take the same
skill proficiency tests to qualify as an entry-level (Class II) craftsman.
Employers regard the VHS graduate as having more broadly-based skills compared
to the more narrowly-focused VTI graduate and the VHS graduate is often
thought to be more flexible in fields where technology is changing rapidly and
retraining needs are frequent.
1.3       In terms of the overall demand for craftsmen, the shift noted above
towards more capital and technology-intensive production has retarded the
growth of craftsman training while raising the demand for post-secondary tech-



-2-
nical skills. The output of craftsmen from the VTIs peaked in 1979 when it
reached 129,000 and has since shown a downward trend to the output level of
75,000 in 1990.1/ Enrollment growth in the vocational high schools which
started to taper off in the early 1980s, peaked at 917,000 in 1986 and had
declined to 811,000 in 1990. This demonstrated that the vocational education
and training (VET) system is to some degree responsive to market signals and
is not as inflexible as VET systems in many countries, which continue to
produce graduates irrespective of declining or changing demand in the labor
market. However, the decline in VHS enrollments has also been influenced by
the discontinuance in 1984 of the preference given to VHS graduates who
applied to colleges and universities to continue their specializations at the
higher level,
B. Vocational Training Institutes
1.4       The Government led the way in establishing vocational training in
Korea under the first Vocational Training Law of 1967. This law resulted in
the establishment of the first public VTls. A-- the demand for skilled workers
increased, the growth of public VTIs could not keep pace and the Government
therefore decided that the private sector should become an important provider
of vocational training. The Government also recognized that industry-based
training was likely to be more adaptable to changing skill needs than training
provided in formal institutions which by their nature were further removed
from the labor market. Training subsidies were introduced to encourage
private firms to undertake training and these were replaced in 1974 by man-
datory training requirements (para. 1.9). These policies have determined the
present structure of vocational training in Korea which comprises public
sector VTIs and private sector in-plant training institutions and institutions
"authorized" by the Government to provide training. The latter include
training in office-related skills.
1.5       Public vocational training programs are from one to three years
duration while private in-plant training lasts from 6 to 12 months and private
authorized training from 3 to 6 months. The vocational training system com-
prised 284 centers in 1990 with an output of around 75,000 craftsmen.2/ The
public sector accounted for 75 institutions with an output of about 25,240
craftsmen which represents about 26% of the training institutions and 34% of
output. Public sector training is undertaken in centers managed by central
government departments and local government bodies but the most significant
organization is the Korea Manpower Agency (KOMA)V/. It was established in
j/   The 1990 output of 75,000 represents a reversal of the trend.  During
1979-89 outputs of craftsmen had declined from 129,000 to 57,900. It is
possible that the increase will continue in future years, thereby
reversing the downward trend of the previous decade.
*  ~/  In addition, 700 master craftsmen, 190 instructors and 7,595 supervisors
were trained in the system.
l~/ Prior to a change of title in 1991, KOMA was known as the Korea
Vocational Training and Management Agency.



-3
1982 to centralize the administration of public vocational training
institutions and to manage such central functions as textbooks and curriculu;.
development, skills testing for both the public and private sectors and the
preparation of skill and industry-specific demanid projections. KOMA controls
34 VTIs which account for about 65% of the public sector training output. The
structure of craftsman training in the VTIs is outlined in Annex 1.
1.6       KUMA centers traditionally drew their trainees from middle-school
graduates and high school dropouts. However, with the achievement of near
universal progression from middle to high school, increasing numbers of
trainees are being recruited from among high school graduates who have
followed the general education curriculum and are seeking skill training to
improve their prospects of employment. Training expenses are met by the
Government with the exception of a nominal charge for room and board which may
be waived in cases of economic necessity. The curriculum is about 30%
theoretical and 70% practical for the technical skills programs. The theory
element breaks down Into about 7% spent on general subjects and 23% on
technical subjects. The practice element comprises basic practice (20%) and
major practice (50%). Graduates of the programs usually achieve skill
certification at the Class II craftsman level. Graduates from the KOMA
centers enjoy very high pass rates in national skill tests and similar rates
of employment on graduation--about 95% in both cases.
1.7       The training of craftsmen in the VTIs is focused strongly on
training ifor the metal processing, transport and construction equipment, and
electronics and communications industries. Taken together, these industry
groups accounted for about 55% of the total output of craftsmen in 1990. On
the other hand, output from courses serving textiles and wood processing
accounted for only 12% of tocal outputs (Annex 2). This contrasts with the
structure of craftsman training during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81)
when outputs of craftsmen for metal processing, transport and construction
equipment, and electronics and communications were only 39% of total outputs
while craftsmen trained for textiles and wood processing accounted for 40% of
total outputs. This reflects the changing structure of craftsman training in
response to the restructuring of Korean industry which increasingly has moved
away from relatively labor-intensive, low-skill industries such as textiles
towards heavy industry and technology-intensive fields such as electronics and
communications.
1.8       The private sector is responsible for the major effort in vocational
training, accounting for 66% of the output of trained craftsmen in 1990. This
represents a significant shift in private sector training which accounted for
only 52% of training output in 1983.  This trend reflects the Governments
policy of shifting responsibility increasingly to the private sector which can
more effectively identify skill needs and provide training more efficiently



-4.
than public sector institutions.W/ Large firms invest heavily ln skill
training anA maintain well-managed, generously-fuv.ded training centers. Such
individual centers account for about two-thirds of in-plant training. How-
ever, smaller firms lack the resources to establish training programs and,
with lower skill needs, such programs are often not practicable. They there-
fore share training costs with groups of similar firms or rely on recruitment
in the market or directly from the public sector institutions. About 60% of
the graduates of KOMA training institutions are recruited by small and medium
firms.
1.9       The shift of training efforts to the private sector disguised for a
number of years a decline in the level of in-plant training of craftsmen. The
growth in private sector training in the authorized training institutions,
which focus mainly on office-related skills, has been steady in recent years.
Authorized training produced around 6,500 craftsman-level workers in 1983 and
this had grown to 23,500 in 1990, reflecting strong growth in the services
sector of the economy. However,during 1983-89, outputs of craftsmen with
technical skills from in-plant training institutions declined from around
21,000 to 16,300. This downward trend seemed to reflect the failure of the
Government's long-term priority to boost in-plant training. When training
subsidies were offered during 1968-71, training efforts increased but
immediately declined when the subsidies were removed. In 1974, the Government
made in-plant training of a certain percentage of employees (about 6.5% in the
beginning but later reduced) mandatory for firms with over 500 employees
(later reduced to 200). In 1976, a training levy was introduced to be paid by
all firms subject to mandatory training which did not carry out this training.
The proceeds of the levy are placed in the Vocational Promotion Fund which
supports public sector vocational training. However, in 1990 there was an
upsurge in outputs from in-plant training institutions with nearly 26,300
craftsmen graJuating in that year.
1.10      The levy system does not seem to have been particularly effective in
promoting in-plant training in the past, the 1990 result notwithstanding.
Bureaucratic regulations involving the preparation and approval of training
schemes made the levy system cumbersome, time consuming and expensive from the
employer's point of view. Furthermore, the levy was determined annually on
the basis of relative training costs in each industry. Cost data proved
difficult to compile and keep up to date with the result that the levy fell
well short of the actual cost of training. Many smaller employers found it
cheaper to pay the levy, forego training and recruit in the labor market.
Thus the levy came to be treated as just another business tax. The Government
has adjusted the levy amount to cover a greater proportion of training costs--
in 1986 the levy was raised to a level which covered about 75% of the cost of
training. This compared with a 25% coverage in 1979. The levy has been
relatively unsuccessful because large firms were motivated to undertake
training regardless of the levy, while smaller firms found it insufficient as
W/ Lee, Chingboon, Einancing Technical Education in LDCs: Economic Implica-
tions from a Survey of 1985 Training Modes in Korea, World Bank Dis-
cussion Paper, September 1985.



an incentive to encourage training. Recently, the Government simplified the
levy from an amount based on training costs to a payroll tax. This obviates
the need to produce an annual survey of training costs for each industry but
the impact of this change on the amount of training provided is not yet
apparent. It may have contributed to the substantial increase in in-plant
training In 1990 although the latter could also have been the result of
accumulated demand from three years of double-digit growth in the economy.
C. Vocation_al High Schools
1.11      Secondary education in Korea comprises two streams - general and
vocational - both of three years' duration (grades 10-12). General high
schools are academically oriented and aim largely at preparation for higher
education. Vocational high schools aim at continuing general education to
grade 12 while at the same time providing sufficient vocational education to
permit graduates to find employment in their fields of specialization. In
1990, enrollments in general high schools were about 1,473,000 and in
vocational schools, around 811,000. Entry to both streams is based on
scholastic record in junior high school, interviews and the results of entry
tests.
1.12      Structure and Enrollments.  The VHS system comprises several
different types of schools.  "Vocational" schools offer training in only one
skill; "comprehensive" schools teach one or more skill and also have general
secondary coui:-qes; "technical" schools (formerly called "engineering" schools)
teach industrial skills with strong emphasis on machinery, electricity, elect-
ronics and engineering drawing; "commercial" schools focus mainly on clerical,
secretarial, information processing and accounting; "agriculture", schools
emphasize agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry; and "fisheries and
marine" schools focus on fishing, fish breeding, marine engine maintenance and
navigation/communications. Enrollments in 1990 in che different types of
schools were as follows:
Table 1.1: ENROLLMENTS IN VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOLS
(1990)
Enrollments ('000)
Type of School               Total     Female      X Female    X by Type
Commercial                   370.9      294.6        79.4        45.8
Technical                    192.1        3.2         1.7        23.7
Comprehensive                181.1      114.2        63.1        22.3
Agricultural                  40.6        5.7        14.0         5.0
Vocational                    16.7       10.2        61.1         2.1
Fisheries and Marine           9.3        0.2         2.2         1.1
Total                        810.7      4?8.         52.8       100 O



-6-
1.13      Overall, females accounted for about 53% of total enrollments in
1990 and are heavily concentrated in the zommercial schools and in office-
related courses in the comprehei... ve schools, Details of enrollments by
course and sex are given in Annb.  I  About 97% of total female enlrollments
are in commerce, information processing, accounting and secretarial courses
and the remainder mainly in horticulture. Females comprise 76% of total
enrol3ments in these courses. This largely reflects the traditional
preference of female students for office-related courses rather than technical
skills courses and this bias seems to have strengthened even more as the
services sector expanded rapidly in recent years. In 1982, 95% of total
female enrollments were in commerce, secretarial and related courses.
1.14      Vocational high schools can also be classified by the type of
organization that operates them namely public, private or national. The
system of 587 schools is structured as follows:
(a) 311 public VHSs (with total enrollments of 304,200) are operated
under the general supn-vision of provincial or -millicipal boards of
education;
(b) 273 private schools (500,200) operated by individuals or under the
supervision of cor"orations; and
(c) three national schools (6,280) which are centers of excellence under
the direct supervision of the Vocational Education Division (VED) of
MOE.a/
1.15      enamement.  There are three key levels in the management of the VHS
system. First, the Ministry of Education (Annex 4) is responsible for the
allocation of budgetary resources through the local boards of education (BE)
(para. 1.16). MOE also exercises overall control over standards in both
public and private scl.vols. The latter include prescribed standards for
~.quipment, teacher qualifications, curricula, student/teacher ratios etc.
Second, local administration of the system is the responsibility of nine
provincial and six municipal boards of education. Work'ing within MOE-
prescribed standards and procedures, the boards have the authority to allocate
budgetary resources to schools and audit their accounts, set enrollment
targets, appoint, assign and transfer teachers, plan and implement in-service
teacher training programs, review the performance of schools etc. In respect
of these activities, both public and private schools generally receive similar
treatment. Third, individual schools are responsible for the selection of
students (within the targets set by the boards), scheduling of classes,
maintenance of buildings and equipment. Private schools are also able to
recruit teachers directly subject to their meeting MOE-specified
qualifications.
l~/ The three national VHSs are public technical schools which were set up by
presidential decree. As centers of excellence they are better endowed
than the average VHS in terms of equipment, teachers and overall resource
allocations.



-7-
1.16      The key management agency is the board of education (Annex 5)
because it has direct responsibility for implementing MOE's policies and also
for applying its standards and guidelines to school opezations. From the
perspective of the proposed project, the BEs are key agencies in the selection
of participating schools and in the identification of equipment requirements.
Boards of education have mostly elected members and have powerful staffs which
are headed by superintendents who are also board members. Superintendents are
appointed by the President and carry a rank equivalent to vice-minister. This
is an indication of the status and authority of the boards. The administra-
tion of VHSs is the responsibility of the Science and Technical Division (STD)
of the School Affairs Bureau of the BE. Staffing of a STD varies in size but
typically it has around 10 senior education supervisory staff (usually former
school principals) who undertake a major review of the performance of public
and private schools every 2-4 years. Formal procedures exist for resolving
any problems highlighted during school performance reviews culminating in
direct intervention by the BE in the operations of delinquent schools. The
decentralized management system is effective largely because the BEs have been
delegated major responsibilities by MOE and have the prestige to attract able
and influential people as members. The quality of the boards' staff is
generally high and this leads to effective support for, and supervision of,
individual schools.
1.17      Einancing.  The vocational high schools are financed mainly by
bu.dgetary allocations in the form of grants-in-aid and by tuition fees. In
the case of private schools, endowments also provide some income. A
relatively small contribution is also made by parent and teacher associations.
Grants-in-aid are provided by MOE to the education boards on the basis of
standardized unit costs for different types of schools and enrollment levels.
The boards of education then allocate resources to each school based on a
budget the school has prepared. Grants-in-aid finance the gap between the
revenue generated by the schools and their total annual outlays. For private
schools the grants are regarded as subsidies which are justified, in part, by
MOE's control over private school tuition fees. These fees are always set
equal to public school fees and reflect the view that since VHSs have tradi-
tionally served lower income groups, these groups should not be disadvantaged
in access to a VHS if no public school is available.
1.18      The level of subsidy to private schools varies with their income but
is in the range of 45-70%. Tuition fees for VHSs (W 150,000-441,600 p.a.) are
often lower than fees for general high schools (W 220,800-441,600 p.a.) partly
for the socio-economic reason of serving lower income groups, but also because
the Government views vocational education as an economic investment while
general education is regarded as an investment in the individual. Recognition
that VHSs generally serve lower income groups is also reflected in the level
of financial assistance awarded in the form of scholarships and fee
exemptions. In 1990 about 35% of enrollments in VHSs received some form of
financial assistance compared with about 16% of enrollments in general high
schools. The average level of assistance was the equivalent of 83% of the
annual minimum tuition fee for a VHS student compared with 56% for a general
high school counterpart.



-8-
1.19      Curricula.  Standard curricula are prescribed by MOE for each type
of VHS, both public and private. The structure of each curriculum varies but
in general averages about 35% for general, academic subjects, 50% for
specialized, technical subjects and 15% for electives. The latter are work-
related subjects which can be varied by the local boards of education
according to skill needs in the local labor market. The VHS curricula are
subject to major periodic reviews under the management of the Korea
Educational Development Institute (KEDI). The fifth review has been completed
and revisions, which are currently being implemented, are expected to be
completed by the end of 1992. While the structure of the curricula remains
largely unchanged following the review, some greater emphasis has been given
to science and English and a data processing skills course has been
introduced. The review process was rigorous and detailed and was undertaken
in two parts. First, a study team of 270 teachers, academics and researchers
reviewed the latest local and foreign research on curriculum development and
then, through the use of questionnaires and visits to schools, examined the
practical problems related to teaching the existing curricula. On the basis
of these findings, a working group for curriculum revision comprising 453
members drawn from the schools, universities, research institutes and industry
prepared draft revisions to the curricula. This process included visits to
industry to obtain the views of employers on curriculum issues. On completion
of the revised curricula, revision of textbooks commenced and this exercise is
expected to be completed by the end of 1992. Textbook revrision is carried out
by KEDI assisted by consultants and the process is coordinated by MOE.
Complementing these activities is the restructuring of the standard equipment
list as described in more detail below (para. 1.23).
1.20      A key concern of the VHSs is to ensure that their curricula are
relevant to the needs of employers thereby ensuring a high degree of
employability of VHS graduates. Thus there needs to be a strong linkage
between schools and employers. The schools need to be aware of current
employment vacancies and be able to advise students accordingly. Employers
need to advise schools on likely future needs for craftsmen and also provide
feedback on the quality of graduates. The school-employer linkage is
formalized in two ways. First, the Supervised Occupational Program (SOP)
requires that all VHS students undertake up to six months of supervised
occupational experience during their final year. This provides a valuable
practical learning experience and also promotes contacts with employers which
ofteni lead to offers of employment on graduation. Second, the Educational
Committees for School-Industry Cooperation bring together key personnel from
the schools and local industry. The committees are involved in organizing the
SOP, assisting in curriculum development and exchanging employment
information.
1.21      The operation of the SOP and the Educational Committees varies among
schools and is strongly dependent on the commitment of key personnel
especially school principals and local managers. There is a need to review
the linkages between schools and employers especially as they operate through
the SOP and the Educational Committees and also to explore the development of
informal linkages. Therefore the Government agreed during negotiations to
complete a study by June 1993 which would make recommendacions for



-9-
strengthening and expanding school-employer linkages. The Government also
agreed to begin implementation of the study's recommendations by October 1994.
Terms of reference for the study have been agreed.
1.22      Equi;ent.  Standard equipment lists for each specialization taught
in the VHSs are provided for each school. The lists represent the appropriate
mix of types and numbers of equipment items necessary to teach the various
curricula. None of the schools has been able to obtain 100% of the equipment
in the standard lists. The three national VHSs come closest with 80-90%
coverage but most schools are in the 40-60% range. In nearly all instances,
the shortfall is in numbers of items rather than in the variety of equipment.
The schools have responded by tightly scheduling the use of equipment and
raising the numbers of students who can practice on particular items of
equipment. This situation has led to efficient utilization rates for equip-
ment but with some loss in the quality of learning because of crowding in the
use of machines by students.
1.23      Periodic reviews of the standard lists, which accompany curriculum
revisions, follow a similar process to the latter. Revision follows two main
steps - a basic study and survey of conditions in the schools followed by
revision of the lists with appropriate inputs from industry. The present
review of the lists is in its final stages and there is already clear evidence
that they are becoming outdated. The review indicates that significant
differences are emerging between the levels of sophistication of equipment
used for training in the VHSs and those of equipment in use in the workplace.
The discrepancies are due to the fact that equipment in the schools has not
been replaced and modernized fast enough to keep pace with the rapid changes
in technology in recent years. Thus many items of equipment in the schools,
in addition to being old and nearing the end of their useful lives, also bear
little resemblance to the higher speed, greater precision and in many cases,
automated equipment that VHS graduates encounter when entering the factory or
office. Equipment to be financed under the proposed project would make a
major contribution to updating equipment in selected schools to bring it
closer in line with the needs of the workplace.
1.24      An innovative feature of the VHS system is the use of joint practice
centers.  Seven centers currently exist and MOE plans to expand the system to
24 centers. Their purpose is to provide VHS students with the opportunity to
operate complex pieces of equipment similar to those being used in the
workplace. The centers thus represent a potentially cost-effective way to
share the use of expensive equipment between schools and to provide students
with experience in an environment which resembles that to be found in the
workplace. The centers will operate most effectively when their equipment is
similar technologically to that found in industry, instructors are fully
competent to utilize the equipment and are well informed about the industrial
environment, and students are given sufficient practice time on equipment in
order to gain familiarity with its operation. At present, the scheduling of
student visits to the centers is tight, with too little time being spent on
practice sessions. It is also unclear as to whether the equipment in the
centers is equivalent to that found in industry. In view of the Government's
intention to expand substantially the network of joint practice centers, it is
important that new centers be properly staffed, equipped and have effective



- 10 -
student practice programs. These issues would be addressed in a study which
the Government agreed, during negotiations, to complete by March 1993. The
study would make recommendations for improving the operation of existing
centers and the Government agreed to begin implementation of the
recommendations by July 1994. Terms of reference for the study have been
agreed.
1.25      The effective operation of workshop equipment depends to an
important degree on adequate financing of operations and maintenance (O&M) and
the supply of consumable materials. Major repairs to equipment are carried
out satisfactorily at a centralized facility in Seoul. All basic maintenance
is conducted in the schools by the staff and the effectiveness of this
activity is dependent upon budget allocations. These vary somewhat among
schools depending upon the priority placed on maintenance by the principals.
But in general the budget is inadequate. The same pattern is to be found in
the allocations for supplies of consumable materials. There is a need to
review the procedures for estimating budgetary expenditures for O&M and
consumables, to develop indicators such as unit costs and to monitor budgetary
allocations and actual expenditures on O&M and consumables annually. A system
needs to be institutionalized which would increase funding for O&M and
consumables in the short run and ensure adequate funding in the long term.  In
response to these needs, the Government agreed, during negotiations, to
complete a study by January 1993 which would make recommendations for
improving the financing of O&M and consumables. The Government agreed to
begin implementation of the study's recommendations by May 1994. Terms of
Veference for the study have been agreed.
1.26      Teachers.  The vocational high schools in Korea have been able to
attract well-qualified teachers in contrast to the common experience else-
where. This is partly due to the relatively high prestige of teaching as a
profession in Korea and also to relatively high salaries. The latter are not
comparable to those in industry but the differences are not as large as are
commonly ; and elsewhere.  Classroom teachers of both vocational and general
subjects are required to have a four-year degree plus additional units of
pedagogy if they are not graduates of a school or faculty of education. At
present, 35 universities and colleges are producing teacher candidates for the
general subjects taught in VHSs and a mixture of 21 agricultural, engineering,
fisheries and marine colleges are producing teachers for vocational subjects.
Thus there is no shortage of candidates for teaching in the VHSs and recruit-
ment is competitive. In 1989, 18,126 candidates applied for the 11,935
available teaching positions. Laboratory and workshop teachers are trained in
two-year junior technical colleges and are classified as assistant teachers.
However, practical teaching is not tne sole preserve of assistant teachers -
in schools where they are not on staff, the vocational subject teachers handle
practical ii.struction.
1.27        Teachers are well qualified, with 93% having at least a bachelor's
degree or equivalent. They are also highly experienced with 52% having over
10 years experience. Vocational teachers, whose background is largely
pedagogical rather than industrial, spend periods in industry under the
provisions of the Institutional Cooperation Act. There are also provisions
under the Act for specialists in industry to hold appointments as part-time



- 11 -
lecturers in the schools. In-service teacher training is widespread and
focuses mainly on upgrading skills for promotion. Courses are held during
semester breaks in local universities and colleges.
1.28      Vocational high schools are staffed with teachers of general high
school subjects and with teachers of vocational subjects. In terms of total
teaching staff, the situation is reasonable with an overall student/staff
ratio of 23:1. However, the endowment of teachers of vocational subjects is
much less satisfactory, averaging around 50:1. It is not clear at this stage
whether the future supply of vocational teachers will be adequate to support
the planned expansion of the VHS system while also permitting the reduction of
the student/staff ratio. Possible constraints on vocational teacher supply
should be examine6 such as the availability of pre-service training places,
the incentives available to attract teacher trainees, promotional prospects,
etc.. It is also important that vocational teachers keep abreast of changes
in industry and therefore the effectiveness of secondments to industry under
the Institutional Cooperation Act should be reviewed. A further area of
review is the availability of teacher support staff such as technicians and
workshop assistants. During negotiations, the Government agreed to complete a
study, which would address these issues and make appropriate recommendations
by April 1993. The Government agreed to begin implementation of the study's
recommendations by August 1994. Terms of reference for the study have been
agreed.
1.29      Employment of Graduates.  On completion of the three-year VHS
course, graduates sit for a certification test for Class II Craftsman
administered by the Ministry of Labor. Pass rates are around 75% which,
although lower than those for VTI graduates, nevertheless represent a
satisfactory achievement given the structure and objectives of VHS courses
which are to produce both educated and skilled individuals. Since employment
levels for VHS graduates are higher than the skill test rates, employers are
clearly prepared to recruit some VHS graduates even without skill certifica-
tion. In 1990, the status of about 91% of graduates for that year was
identified, totalling about 250,000 graduates. Of this number, 9% entered
higher education, 84% were employed, 6% were unemployed and the remainder
entered military service. This represents a clear improvement over 1982 when
only 58% were employed and 21% unemployed. However, 1982 was a recession year
in the economy and this emphasizes the sensitivity of employment prospects for
VHS graduates to overall economic conditions.
1.30      Planning for the future development of the VHS system should aim to
maximize the employment of graduates. The system should be flexible enough to
respond to changing demand for craftsmen in a labor market which itself is
responding to rapidly changing technology. At present the demand for
craftsmen is high with employers in the industrial and services sectors
claiming that they are facing substantial shortages of skilled craftsmen.
Information on the labor market, the status of the workforce and projections
of future labor demand are produced by a number of agencies such as KOMA,
Ministry of Labor, Korea Development Institute and the Economic Planning
Board. In spite of the general availability of relevant data, MOE does not
have any formal mechanism for planning the future growth and structural change
in the VHS system in response to the changing demand for craftsmen. MOE has



- 12 -
responded to the general shortage of craftsmen with a policy that calls for
the long-term expansion of VHS enrollments to achieve an enrollment ratio of
50:50 between vocational and general high schools, compared with the current
ratio of 35:65 in favor of the general high schools. To achieve this by year
2000 would require a VHS enrollment of about 1.05 million in that year, an
increase of 239,000 in annual enrollments over the 1990 level.
1.31      This proposed expansion, which represents a substantial potential
investment, is not based on any systematic approach which draws on information
relating to the skill structure of the workforce and how it is changing, the
impact of technological change on the demand for skilled workers, the
long-term growth prospects of different industrial sectors, etc.. A formal
manpower planning model is not needed since these have failed too often
elsewhere. What is needed is a mechanism which would provide for the
systematic collection and analysis of relevant data and the provision of
advice to MOE to guide its planning of the future development of the VHS
system. During negotiations, the Government agreed to complete a study by
July 1993 which would make recommendations for developing an appropriate
planning mechanism. The Government agreed to begin implementation of the
study's recommendations by November 1994. Terms of reference for the study
have been agreed.
D. Bank's Experience in Education
1.32      The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development efforts through
substantial support for the development of technical and scientific education
and research.W/ Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's needs and
priorities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing sophistica-
tion of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring of industry
towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would require the
continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Thus as industry
developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to education
moved from support for craftsman and technician training through professional
engineering education to graduate engineering programs and associated research
activities.
1.33      The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focused on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The first education project in Korea (Cr. 151-KO)
supported the expansion of vocational high schools, junior technical colleges
and teacher training. It also financed technical assistance and fellowships
to strengthen the planning and administration of vocational and technical
6a/ The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



- 13 -
education. The PPAR for the credit (Report No. 1801-KO, November 22, 1977)
concluded that physical implementation was satisfactory but that some delays
were experienced in recruiting and utilizing the experts under the technical
assistance component. The latter could have been overcome by more careful
scheduling and a clearer definition of the experts' functions.
1.34      The second education project (Ln. 906/Cr. 394-KO) financed equipment
for vocational high schools, junior technical colleges and undergraduate
programs in science, engineering and education. The PPAR for the project
(Report No. 4509, May 24, 1983) concluded that the project was implemented
substantially as planned but with some delays due to over-optimistic schedul-
ing. The third education project (Ln. 1096-KO) continued to support expansion
and quality improvement in vocational high schools and junior colleges and for
vocational training institutes under the Ministry of Labor. The project was
implemented successfully and demonstrated the growing experience and
competence of local project staff. The fourth education project (Ln. 1474-KO)
supported a further expansion of VTIs and expansion and improvement of
instructor training. The project completion report (PCR) for the project
(Report No. 5516, March 8, 1985) concluded that the project was well designed,
implemented efficiently and judged the project to be an excellent example of
Bank/Borrower cooperation. It is reasonable to conclude that the first four
projects demonstrated that the increased competence of local authorities led
to improved project design and implementation. Project experience also
demonstrated that there was a need to take a broader view of sectoral policies
and issues after the implementation of four conventional projects. This was
taken up in the two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector
loans.
1.35      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252, May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learned were: (a) a
stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful
implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker
and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the
additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient
implementation. 2/
1.36      The second education sector loan (Ln. 2427-KO), which incorporated
these lessons, assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding graduate research programs, improving sector management
and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
2/   The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector under the first five
lending operations is documented in the OED report titled Review of the
Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea (Report
No. 5950; December 4, 1985).



- 14 -
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule on June 30, 1989. The PCR for the loan concludes that its
objectives were largely met. Policy and institutional improvements of
particular relevanie to science education were introduced in relation to
accreditation of colleges of natural science and science education
departments, upgrading and expanding staffing of these institutions and the
planning of facilities and equipment; at the secondary level, a new
experimentation-oriented science curriculum was introduced, a system to
monitor student achievement in science developed, new examination and college
admission procedures introduced and science teachers upgraded through in-
service training.
1.37      Following these education projects the Bank turned its attention to
supporting research activities in the universities and the national research
institutes under three Technology Advancement Projects (TAPs) and the
Universities Science and Technology Research Project. However, the first two
TAPs also contained a component assisting science and engineering education.
Ln. 3037-KO assisted in improving the quality of science and engineering
education at the Korea Institute of Technology, a center of excellence for the
under-graduate teaching of gifted students in science and mathematics.
Ln. 3202-KO supported quality improvement at the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology, the leading graduate school in science and
engineering. The Universities Science and Technology Research Project
(Ln. 3203-KO), although focusing exclusively on research will, nevertheless,
have an indirect impact on teaching because of the close link between the
research undertaken by faculty and their teaching responsibilities. In the
recently-approved Vocational Education Project (Ln. 3314-KO), the Bank is
reverting to assistance to vocational training in recognition of the
continuing need for craftsmen to be trained to meet the increasingly complex
skill requirements of the labor market. The project supports the upgrading of
skill training in selected VHSs through the provision of modern equipment more
closely attuned to conditions in the workplace.
II, THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Proiect
2.1       The Government included the project in its CY91 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
November 1990. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
according to guidelines formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised
in July-August 1991 and appraised in November 1991.
B. Project Rationale. Objectives and Scope
2.2       The rapid change in technology in the workplace in Korea requires a
training system that must adapt continuously to the rising demand for more
advanced skills. An important part of this process is the regular updating of
equipment in the VHSs to ensure that the training of craftsmen continues to be
attuned to the increasingly complex technology being used in industry,
commerce and agriculture. The proposed project would continue support for



- 15 -
equipment modernization included under the Vocational Education Project. In
addition to this modernization process, the institutional weaknesses outlined
previously need to be addressed in order to improve the effectiveness of
vocational education and to ensure that the full benefit of the supply of new
equipment would be gained. The project provides the opportunity to review
these issues, propose appropriate remedies and ensure that the necessary
actions are taken in a timely manner. The project would thus combine a direct
contribution to raising the quality of vocational education, through the
supply of up-to-date equipment, with value added in the form of institutional
improvements aimed at strengthening the operational effectiveness of the VHS
system.
2.3       The project has two major objectives: (a) to assist in upgrading the
skill training provided in selected vocational high schools to ensure the
continued employability of their graduates and to equip them to adjust more
effectively to changing technology in the workplace; and (b) to strengthen the
VHS system through introducing improvements in the link between schools and
employers, more effective planning, improved staffing arrangements in the
schools and more efficient operation of joint practice facilities.
C. Proiect Design and Description
2.4       The project includes equipment estimated to cost US$30.0 million,
excluding contingencies, to be financed by the proposed loan. This amount has
already been determined by the Government and is fixed within the foreign
borrowing program. Bank-financed equipment would be concentrated in three
types of vocational schools - technical (US$16.3 million, excluding
contingencies), agricultural (US$8.4 million) and commercial (US$5.3 million).
The equipment forms the core of the project but in order to ensure that it is
utilized effectively, complementary inputs (US$11.6 million excluding
contingencies) must also be supplied. These would be financed by the
Government and cover local transportation and installation of equipment, O&M
and consumable materials. The Government would also finance all contingencies
related to these components and to the equipment. The Government would also
finance studies (US$0.2 million excluding contingencies) which would address
problem areas in vocational education and make appropriate recommendations for
their solution (para. 2.9).
2.5       The status of equipment provision in the vocational high schools is
measured against standard equipment lists which vary in content among the
different types of schools. The average provision for all schools is about
53% j/ with the best equipped being the commercial schools (57%) and agri-
culture schools (57%), followed by technical (51%) and fisheries/marine
schools (49%). These figures indicate that the VHSs are considerably below
standard requirements in terms of equipment provision. However, the situation
is not as serious as it appears. Equipment deficiencies tend not to be so
much in terms of the range of equipment but rather in the numbers of items.
Thus the range of equipment is reasonably consistent with the curricula to be
,B/ The average level of equipment provision will be raised to 61% under the
recently approved Vocational Education Project.



- 16 -
taught but shortages of equipment icems have led to the heavy scheduling of
equipment use and above average numbers of students using equipment items for
practice sessions. In a number of instances this has led to efficiencies
gained from high utilization rates but in other cases excessive overscheduling
has affected the quality of training. In addition, a number of equipment
items are obsolete and need to be replaced in line with changing technology in
the workplace. The proposed loan of US$30 million would raise the overall
average equipment provision to 69%, with commercial schools increasing to 74%,
agricultural schools to 97X, and technical schools to 64X.2/
2.6       The vocational high schools are under the overall control of the
Ministry of Education but local administration is the responsibility of the
provincial and municipal boards of education. Since the BEs are closest to
the schools and therefore in the best position to understand their needs, they
have been given the responsibility for selection of schools to participate in
the proposed project. Each BE would select the schools to participate in the
project mainly on the basis of the level of overall equipment provision in the
schools, with the most disadvantaged being given priority. Account would also
be taken in specific instances of new schools and newly-established depart-
ments in existing schools which need to be equipped with basic items.
Attention would also be given to the need to replace worn-out equipment and to
the requirements of the joint practice centers. Equipment for each school
would be procured partly to meet some of the shortfall in standard equipment
items and partly for updated equipment needed to teach more advanced
technologies and replace worn-out items. The proportions would vary according
to the needs of each school. In the interests of equity, public and private
schools would be treated equally in the application of selection criteria for
participation in the project. The actual level of participation of public and
private schools would be determined following the application of selection
criteria by each BE. During negotiations, the Government agreed that schools
would be selected for participation in the project according to criteria
acceptable to the Bank.
2.7       To ensure that equipment to be procured under the project reflects
overall development priorities and their regional implications, the Education
Facilities Bureau (EFB) of MOE has established an advisory committee compris-
ing officials and outside experts which would assist in determining priority
fields of study for each BE. On the basis of this committee's recommenda-
tions, EFB will allocate specific amounts of the loan proceeds to each BE for
specific types of vocational schools. Consequently, each BE will receive from
EFB a specific allocation of loan funds and identified priority fields of
2/  The relatively low increase in percentage provision for the technical
schools does not reflect a lower priority but rather the fact that the
technical schools, component is predominant in the overall standard
equipment list for all VHSs. Although technical schools will be allocat-
ed 54Z of loan proceeds, technical schools comprise 72% of the value of
the overall standard equipment list.



- 17 -
study in which the funds will be spent. The BE will select the schools to
participate in the project according to the criteria mentioned above
(para. 2.6).
2.8       Each BE will form a committee of experts for each type of school to
assist it in determining how the loan funds allocated to it will be disbursed
among the schools. Members of this committee will visit each school to assess
the status of equipment in each selected school and, together with school
authorities, will prepare a final list of equipment to be procured for each
project school within the guidelines regarding fields of study.-L/ The
Education Loan Projects Division of EFB, which is responsible for implementa-
tion of the project (para. 3.8), will forward specifications for standard
items of equipment to each BE, as required, and will either review or prepare
specifications for the more modern items of equipment not included in the
standard lists of equipment at present. Each BE will group the equipment
lists from the project schools for competitive bidding and will forward these
packages directly to OSROK for procurement, with copies to ELPD. These
procedures are represented diagrammatically in Annex 6.
2.9       An important aspect of project design is to identify problem areas
in the VHS system, make appropriate recommendations for improvement and
implement the recommendations according to a feasible timetable. The five
problem areas previously identified (paras. 1.21, 1.24, 1.25, 1.28 and 1.31)
would be studied by working groups organized by MOE. Most of the work would
be done by officials of MOE and the local boards of education. Local
consultants would be utilized as required. Expenditures on local consultants
(US$0.2 million, excluding contingencies) and any other local costs associated
with the studies would be financed by the Governm3nt. Each working group
would prepare a study which would include recommendations for improvements in
the problem areas. Following Government's review and acceptance of the
recommendations, they would be implemented by MOE. The studies would be
carried out and their recommendations implemented according to an agreed
action plan (Annex 7) which identifies, for each study, key tasks and dates
for their completion. During negotiations the Government agreed to carry out
the studies and implement their recommendations according to the action plan,
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
.1/ The process of selecting items of equipment to be financed under the
project will be facilitated by the fact that schools have already identi-
fied their equipment needs as part of a survey of all vocational schools.
These lists have been passed through the BEs to MOE where they have been
reviewed by the Education Loan Projects Division (ELPD), assisted by the
Vocational Education Division and outside consultants, to determine pri-
orities for equipment items in relation to curricula. Thus each school
selected under the project will already have a prioritized list of equip-
ment needs and each BE's committee of experts will review these priori-
ties in terms of the guidelines regarding fields of study (provided by
EFB).



- 18 -
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$48.4 million equi-
valent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2.  Detailed
costs by component and category are given in Annex 8 and project expenditure
by year and recipient in Annex 9.
Table 3.1: SUNMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion              US$ Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Technical Schools       4.2    12.3      16.5    5.7      17.0   22.7     75
Agricultural Schools   2.1      6.4       8.5    2.9       8.7   11.6     75
Commercial Schools      1.3     4.0       5.3    1.8      5.5    7.3      75
Policy Studies          0.1     -         0.1    0.2       -      0.2      -
Baseline cost           1LZ    22.7      ;0.4   10.6     31.2       8     75
Contingencies
Physical              0.4     1.1       1.5    0.5      1.6    2.1      76
Price increase        1.0     2.3       3.3    1.4      3.1    4.5      69
Subtotal            1.4    3.4       4.8    1.9       LI    6.6       71
Total Project Cost ii  91l   26.1        35.2   12.5     35,9   48.4      74
/_ Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.6 million.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
W on Billion            USS Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Equipment              -      21.8      21.8    *       30.0   30.0    100
Equipment trans-
portation and
installation          1.2     0.1       1.3    1.6      0.2    1.8      10
Operations and
maintenance           3.2      0.4      3.6    4.4      0.5    4.9      10
Consumable materials   3.2     0.4       3.6    4.4      0.5    4.9      10
Consultants            0.1      -        0.1    0.2      *      0.2       -
Baseline cost        7.7    22.7      30.4   10.6     31.2   41.8      75
Contingencies
Physical             0.4     1.1       1.5    0.5      1.6    2.1      76
Price increase       1.0     2.3       3.3    1.4      3.1    4.5      69
Subtotal             1        _3. 4    4.8    1.9      4.7    6.6      71
Total groi_ect cost    i.J    26.1      35.2   12.5     35.9   48.4      74
3.2       Base costs are estimated at November 1991 prices.  Equipment costs
are estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent
catalogue prices. Transportation and installation costs, the initial supply
of consumables and the costs of operations and maintenance are based on recent
experience in the VHS system.  Consultant costs are based on current
Government rates. Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at
US$2.6 million.
3.3       The contingencv allowance of US$6.6 million (about 16% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases. Physioal contingencies were estimated at 5% of base-
line costs for equipment, consultant services, transportation and installation
of equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures. Price increase
contingencies were calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance
with thle following expected annual average price increase percentages:
foreign cost, 3.9% in FY92 and thereafter and local cost, 5.0% p.a.
throughout. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about
10% of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 20 -
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$35.9 million (about 74% of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: equipment - 100%, transportation and
installation - 10%, consumables - 10%, 0 & H - 10% and consultants - 0%.
B. Ei_nancing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$30.0 million equivalent would finance about
84% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 62% of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be respon-
sible for the remaining 38% or US$18.4 million equivalent. The loan amount is
limited to US$30.0 million by the foreign borrowing program and is therefore
less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would finance
100% of the baseline cost of equipment with all contingencies to be financed
by the Government. Loan funds would be made available to participating public
and private schools as budget transfers from MOE through the local boards of
education.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                Government        IBRD        Total
---US$ million-----------
Equipment                                -               30.0         30.0
Equipment transportation
and installation                       1.8              -            1.8
Operations and maintenance               4.9              -            4.9
Consumable materials                     4.9              -            4.9
Consultants                              0.2              -            0.2
Contingencies                            6.6              -            6.6
Total                               18.4             30.0         48.4
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate recurrent costs
for consumable materials and 0 & M estimated at US$2.7 million p.a. This
would be spread over approximately 280 schools thus averaging about US$9,600
per institution. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.
C. Proiect Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Education Facilities Bureau of MOE - an agency that has gained considerable
experience in implementing Bank projects through its responsibility for
earlier Bank operations. Physical aspects of the project would be handled



- 21 -
within EFB by the Education Loai Projects Division including relations with
the local boards of education on equipment lists and specifications and with
OSROK for equipment procurement. Assistance on educational issues would be
provided by the boards of education and the Vocational Education Division of
the Science and Technology Education Bureau of MOE. These bodies are
adequately staffed with qualified and experienced personnel. An organization
chart for MOE is given at Annex 4. The project implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 10.
3.8       The Education Loan Projects Division would be responsible for
routine correspondence and reporting to the Bank, and for financial and dis-
bursement matters. ELPD has played this role in previous Bank projects and is
experienced in project implementation. The bulk of the work in equipment
procurement would be undertaken by OSROK, which is highly experienced in
procuring equipment under the Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. On the basis of equipment lists and specifications provided by
the local boards of education, OSROK would prepare bidding documents, invite
bids, evaluate them in conjunction with the BEs and make contract awards. The
schools would be responsible for installation, initial testing and operation
of the equipment, unless specified in the equipment contract that the supplier
would perform these tasks. The schools, assisted by the Seoul Technical
Repair Center if necessary, would also be responsible for maintenance and
repair of the equipment including acquisition of spare parts, accessories and
consumables, beyond the items and services initially supplied under the
contract. The Vocational Education Division would be responsible for
implementing the policy studies. VED would organize the working groups for
each study and liaise with local boards of education as appropriate. VED
would ensure that the studies were implemented according to the action plan
and take responsibility for following up on the implementation of the
recommendations of the studies, assisted by ELPD as necessary. The Bank would
supervise the project twice yearly around March and September coinciding as
far as possible with the preparation of the semi-annual progress reports
(para. 3.14). Regional average coefficients would be applied for allocating
resources to project supervision. Overall implementation issues would be
handled by the task manager with technical aspects being the responsibility of
a technical educator.
Status of Project Preparation
3.9       The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation
to commence immediately after loan signing. Criteria for the selection of
schools to be included in the project have been prepared and are acceptable to
the Bank (para. 2.6). Standard equipment lists have been updated and schools
have identified their equipment needs. Procedures are in place for reviewing
and finalizing these needs. Terms of reference for the policy studies and the
action plan for their implementation have been agreed with the Government.
Funds are available in MOE's budget to finance the studies. Project
management authorities have been identified and competent staff are available
to handle implementation activities.



- 22 -
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85% of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in contracts valued at less than
US$300,000 may be procured up to an aggregate limit of US$4.5 million through
shopping procedures allowing for the comparison of quotations from at least
three suppliers. Local equipment manufacturers would be extended a 15%
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever *is the lower,
on bid evaluation under ICB. Local transportation, operations and maintenance
costs on equipment would be financed by the Government under local procedures.
Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not included in the equipment
contracts, would also be financed by the Government. Local consultant
services would be financed by the Government and procured under local
procedures.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total cost
Procureinent Method                including
Category of expenditure      ICB       LCB    Other          NBF  contingencies
--------------- (US$ million) -----------------
Equipment                    29.4       -           5.1     -         34.5
(25.5)                (4.5)             (30.0)
Equipment transportation
and installation                      -           -       2.1        2.1
(0.0)      (0.0)
Operations and maintenance    -         -           -       5.8        5.8
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consumable materials               -                -       5.8        5.8
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consultants                   -          -                  0.2        0.2
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                   29.4       -            ,,,  13.9        48.4
(25.5)      -         (4.5)   (0.0)     (30.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
NBF:   Not Bank-Financed.
3.11      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards. However, complete bidding documents



- 23 -
including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and technical specifi-
cations would be sent to the Bank before each invitation to bid. Bid
evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be retained by OSROK for ex-
post review by Bank missions.
Disbursemenats
3.12      The proposed loan of US$30.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of 5.5 years (Annex 11). This corresponds to the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion
date of the project would be June 30, 1997 and the closing date December 31,
1997. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment or, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65% of local expenditures
for other equipment items procured locally. Reimbursement for each equipment
contract of US$300,000 equivalent or more, would be fully documented.
Reimbursement for each equipment contract of less than US$300,000 equivalent,
would be made against statements of expenditure for which full supporting
documentation would be retained in MOE, for review as requested, by visiting
Bank missions. Administrative and accounting capability in MOE is adequate to
support the SOE procedure.
3.13      To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up at the Korea Exchange Bank in an amount of US$2.0
million, to cover the estimated average amount required to finance project
expenditures for the next four months. Applications for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis or when-
ever the amount requested exceeds 50% of the initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
Accounts. Audits and ReRorting
3.14      MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that audited accounts, including the special account and statements of
expenditure (SOE) wouid be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
the financial year. Audit reports would include a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank in about March and September and provide status
reports for visiting missions.
D. Environmental Impact
3.15      The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project would be located in properly
designed workshops which operate under standard safety procedures.
E. Impact on Women
3.16      The project would have its strongest impact on women through the
provision of equipment to support educational improvements in the commercial
schools.  Although girls comprise nearly 53% of enL,ollments in the,VHS system,



- 24 -
they account for 79% of enrollments in the commercial schools (Table 1.1).
This reflects the traditional preference of girls for office-related rather
than factory-related work. No discriminatory practices exist which would dis-
courage females from enrolling in industrial skills courses and the present
enrollment pattern is largely the result of individual preferences. High
female enrollment in the commercial schools reflects the continued shift of
women into better paying jobs in the economic mainstream. The project would
contribute to producing better-trained female workers for the service sector.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would assist in raising the quality of skill training in
the vocational high schools. The project would help to ensure that trainees
are trained on modern equipment more attuned to the high technology equipment
utilized in the industrial, commercial and agricultural sectors. The improved
training would enhance the value of VHS graduates to prospective employers by
increasing their usefulness immediately upon graduation. Thus the continued
employability of VHS graduates would be assured, and the productivity of the
sectors in which they would be employed would be enhanced. The project would
also improve the relevance and effectiveness of vocational education through
strengthening planning and the link between schools and employers, improve
staffing arrangements in the schools and increase efficiency in the operation
of the joint practice centers. To the extent that vocational education tends
to serve lower income groups, improvements in the system would benefit these
groups.
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government has agreed to the following:
(a)   a study on strengthening school-employer linkages would be
completed by June 1993 and implementation of the study's
recommendations would begin by October 1994 (para. 1.21);
(b)   a study on improving the effectiveness of the Joint Equipment
Centers would be completed by March 1993 and implementation of
the study's recommendations would begin by July 1994 (para.
1.24);
(c)   a study on improving resource allocations to 0 & M and
consumable materials would be completed by January 1993 and
implementation of the study's recommendations would begin by
May 1994 (para. 1.25);



- 25 -
(d) a study on vocational teacher issues would be completed by
April 1993 and implementation of the study's recommendations
would begin by August 1994 (para. 1.28);
(e) a study on the development of a planning mechanism to guide
the future expansion of the VHS system would be completed by
July 1993 and implementation of the study's recommendations
would begin by November 1994 (para. 1.31);
(f) schools would be selected to participate in the project
according to criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.6);
(g) the studies would be carried out and their recommendations
implemented according to the action plan, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank (para. 2.9); and
(h) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para.
3.14);
5.2             Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent to the Republic of
Korea for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1
KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of Craftsman Training in Vocational Training Institutes
(1990)
Training Agency       No. of Training Centers   Output of Trainees
Public Sector
KOMA                           34                    16,395
Central Goveinment             37                     4,706
Local Government                4                     4.140
Subtotal                   75                   25.241
Private Sector
In-plant                      110                    26,266
Authorized                     99                    23.501
Subtotal                  209                   49.767
Total                     284                    75.008



ANN"t 2
KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Output of Trained Craftsmen from Vocational Institutes
Output of Trainees
1990               . 1977-81
Industry                       No.         X           No.         %
Metal materials and manufacturing        1,160         2         19,530     4
Metal processing                        21,040        29        96,506    19
Transportation and construction
equipment                             11,892        16        67,827    14
Electricity                              4,199         6        19,114      4
Electronics and communications           8,526        11        28,708      6
Textiles                                 4,577         6       110,381    22
Wood processing                          4,775         6        88,464    18
Chemistry                                1,554         2        22,986      5
Printing                                   355         -         .6,809     1
Mining                                      55         -          9,989     2
Handicrafts                              1,108         1         4,527      1
Food Processing                          2,062         3         9,289      2
Other                                   13,705        18        11,609      2
Total                               75.008       100       495.739   100



ANNEX 3
KgOR
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENROLLMENTS BY gOURSE IN VOCATIONAL
HIGH SCHOOLS - 1990
Enrollments
('000)
Course                       Total              Female          % Female
Agriculture
Agriculture                    10.3               0.7                6.8
Horticulture                   11.9               4.0               33.6
Zootechnology                  12.1               0.1                0.8
Forestry                       2.8                0.1                0.5
Agricultural Eng.               4.2               -                  -
Other                           8.3               1.6               19.3
Sub-total              49.6                6.5              13.1
Industry
Machinery                      62.7               -                  -
Electricity                    30.6               -                  -
Electronics                   28.4                0.8                2.8
Chemical Eng.                  14.7               0.3                2.0
Communications                 4.2                0.2                4.8
Plumbing/Welding               4.6
Automobile                      3.1               -                  -
Architecture                   18.8               0.5                2.7
Civil Eng.                     17.7               -
Other                          13,6               0.6                4.4
Sub-total             198.4                2.4               1.2
Commerce
Commerce                      334.8             269.7               80.6
Information Proc.             67.7               54.8               80.9
Accounting                     40.8              33.9               83.1
General                        94.1              50.1               53.2
Other                          11.5                .1J              70.4
Sub-total             548.9              416.6              75.9
Eisheries and Marine
Engine                          3.2
Fishing                         1.9
Communications                  1.5
Navigation                      1.0
Other                           2.5                                  802 8,o
Subtotal               10.1                0.2               2.0
Miscellaneous                  L.i                                  6429
Total                         810.7             428.1



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education
Elementry &     SleflC~&           Edclon IaNe            Uih,er    momai
PWIC                               ~~~~~~~~Sowndar        IcN*lg       aii
Onk"                          ~~~~~~edUcat)n Bk*M     Educationywra     j                                II
schod      vocaurw           ~~~~~Faciltie Planning    LIWU1V Educato`n
Administallon  EdWAIM         Mukm                      a~~~~~~mnilbto
_________                School I:Inanc.       science ~~~~~~iucauon   Educatio Loan           Ulh,riy"   Eduato
Sdwd Fkwom  -O*nw Educalm           Pitid                  WbdnARalr
lnglWAor                Melon                  04abn                 Divi~~~~~~~~~~C1'sion     OUcrw
_____________                         C~~~~~ompuloyJulrColg                         Eqtipmnent
OMelon                OhMuon                 OIIoneer
eijeud                Junior Coe             Scoo Bulg
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aaei A nnffair                                           Conafuint
Divicsl        j                                        DwA=                0MsIrn_          c                        Adlnhtailo
Educy4=01111W ~ ~     ~       ~      tln4.a%&LhIiet Euato
Plmnbg&         SL=                                                              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Educatio Burewu  oMuion
W.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~voc X    . TS
Pro-Sand.cer  e lolaSnh;OMchr               ___________roS-ucal   lbnwDlybEduc
Monagemeni |fficer   Plnnh Officer             Textbook                                   Tuc Abln                 EdAtf              StudentAfai
sm- d 10                                    =sr = O e .                CMaion              CmsIOv on b         9 1uldn
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentoa l_________
Legal AMab,                   s.v~~~~~~ COO~IdIWM    QlfSe4a                lne-Serioe Teacher       E8Um-SIrcTece           Ooo
OfmftictierPgrmOferf C4u~nick5                                      IIhiSuICtrIor:        EduCaton OMID       CoEdation SMIo         cdemfloeeafc
______________         & Ma                                                                                I Piomoflon OMalon~~~~~~~~~~ltemlon
Q~ef Spen4er for  TeaherVhwele         0umm- ResIdnt.
Operatmi Officer    ~ ~ ~ ~   Sluduwit Guidance        h4poMn           Educallon OMalon      ~      o i
ISeor=
l,r .aia Scec                                                                                       sonfna



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Organization of a Board of Education
Superintendent
Deputy
Superintendent
School Affaira                       Administratlon
Bureau                               Bureau
Elementary Educatior. Division         Administration Division              Planning and
Secondary Education Divislon           Financial Affairs Dlvision           Inspectlon Office
Sclence and Technical Division         Educational Facilities Division      General Affairs Division
Non-formal                             Construction Dlvislon
Educaton Division
Physical Education Dlvision
Institutions                            EK1W476690
-~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j



ANNEX 6
KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures for Equipment Procurement
Advisory Committee
advises EFB on                   .    J EFB allocates loan amounts.
priority fields of study              to BEs and advises on priorities
L~~~~
t BEs select participating schools
Experts'committees advise                BEs allocate loan funds to schools
BEs on equipment needs of                on basis of lists
individual schools and
prepare final equipment lists
Review of equipment specifications by ELPDOI
BEs group equipment for bidding and
forward lists to OSROK
[OSROK procures equipment



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for the Institutional Strengthening
of the Vocational High School System
EQ hisi             Improve         Develop effective   Improve supply   Improve links  Develop effective
Issue               operation of   planning and          and quality       between        mechanism for
Joint           resource allocat-   of vocational    employers        planning future expansion
Practice        ion mechanism        course teachers  and VHSs        and structural change In
Centers         for consumables and                                   VHS system
O M
Actions
1) Agree on TOR       Novehber           November             November        November            November
for studies:       1991               1991                 1991            1991                1991
2) Identify           March              March                March           March               March
membership of      1992               1992                 1992            1992                1992
working groups:
3) Study to           September          November             January         March               April
commence by:       1992               1992                 1993            1993                1993
4) Study to be        March              January              April           June                July
completed by:      1993               1993                 1993            1993                1993
5) Government's
decisions on
st-udy
recommendations   May                 March                June            August              September
by:                1994               1994                 1994            1994                1994
6) 1mplementa.ion
of recommenda-
tions to           July               May                  August         October             November
commence by:       1994               1994                 1994            1994                1994
Each study will contain a timetable for the implementation of its recommendations.



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
Consultants    Equipment       Transportation   0 & M   Consumable    Total Cost
and Installation            Materials   Won H - US$ X
Technical Schools              -          11,899                715       1,949        1,949     16,512       22.7
Agricultural Schools           -           6,132                365       1,000        1,000      8,497       11.6
Commercial Schools             -           3,869                234         620          620      5,343        7.3
Policy Studies               146                -                 -            -           -        146        0.2
Baseline Cost             146          21.900              1.314       3.569        3.569     30.498      41.8
Contingencies
Physical                    7           1,095                 66         179          179      1,526       2.1
Price Increase              8           2,223                168         457         457       3,313       4.5
Subtotal Contingencies    15            3.318                234         636          636      4,839       6.6
Total Project Cost
Won Million               161          25.218              1,548       4.205        4.205     35.337
US$ Million               0.2            34.5                2.1         5 8          5.8                 48.4



KOREA 
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Won million)                     Total Cost
92/93     93/94      94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98     Won H      US$4
Technical Schools               1,115     5,570      5,570    3,037        913        307     16,512    22.7
Agricultural Schools              810     2,730      2,730    1,621        409        197      8,497    11.6
Commercial Schools                307     1,722      1,722    1,117        307        168      5,343      7.3
Policy Studies                     73         73        -         -          -          -        146      0.2
Baseline Cost             2.305    10.095    10.022    5.775    1.62           672      30.498    41.8
Contingencies
Physical                    115        505        501      289         82        34       1,526     2.1
Price Increase               51        674      1,137      936        347       168       3,313     4.5
Total Project Cost        2.471    11.274    11.660    7.000        2.058       874      35.337    48.4
Foreign Exchange          1,786      8,349     8,675    5,190       1,514       677      26,191    35.9
2



KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of ImplementaUion
CY          199                  1993                 1994                 1995                  1996                 1997            1998
Bank FY     92              9394-                                      95                   96                   97                   98
Setection of Vocational Schools
Eduzcatlon boards notiFed       A
Proposals received & reviewed      -
Vocational schools selectedA
Equipment Promemment
LIsts 8 specs prepared          Phase I              Phase N              Phase fiI            Phase IV
Reviwed & approved-
Bfdng documents prepared-
Invtiation for bidsA
Emva!uallon &contract awrds--
Deflvry, inslaffallon & testing
Warranty pefod                                                     -
Studles
TORs preparetad mru
members Idenlz    u
Studes condticed
Govemienl decisions readied
Accepted reconmaridalons
Implemented
Lean Procesneq & Genera
implemnenlatlon
N~egolJalons                    A
EoaTd pmetao                      A
Lean slgning
Effectiveness                                A
Gieneral procurment notice                A
anmnounced
Project ompletion date
Cosng date
Prmlect Completon Report Due Dale
WRIT15O624 (4)



ANNEX 11
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements                       Disbursements
Profile La
IBRD Fiscal Year      Semester    Cumulative       as X             (M)
US$-----------.of Total
1992
1            2.0_b           2.0           6.7             1
2            0.0             2.0           6.7             3
1993
1            4.0             6.0          20.0             5
2            6.0            12.0          40.0            10
1994
1            4.0            16.0          53.3            23
2            6.0            22.0          73.3            44
1            4.0            26.0          86.7            70
2.           2.0            28.0          93.3            81
1996
1            1.0            29.0          96.7            92
2            0.5            29.5          98.3            97
1997
1            0.5            30.0         100.0           100
La   Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
Lb   Initial deposit in Special Account



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   enorts and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A.l*    Introduction to Science and Technology - Republic of Korea, MOST,
1988.
A.2*    Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982.
A-3*    Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea:  A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985.
A..4**  Lee, Kye-Woo, Human Resources Planning in the Republic of Korea, World
Bank Staff Working Papers No. 554, 1983.
A..5**   Chang, Suk-Min, Challenges of Technological Changes on Technical
Education, 1983.
A-6**   Lee, Chingboon, Financing Technical Education in LDCs:  Economic
Implications from a Survey of Training Modes in the Republic of Korea,
Discussion Paper, Education and Training Series, World Bank, September
198.5.
A-7**   The Korean Labor Market:  Emerging Policy Issues, IBRD Report No.
6478-KO, February 2, 1987.
A-8**   Rutters, Klaus, Vocational Education in Korea, GTZ, August 1988.
A-9**   Lee' Sang-Joe, The Development History of Vocational Training Policies
in Korea, KVTMA, September 1988.
A.10**  Vocational Training in Korea, Ministry of Labor, ROK, 1989.
A-ll**  Linkages between the Macroeconomic Environment and Vocational
Education and Training: A Case Study of the Republic of Korea, IBRD,
undated.
A-12**  Shin, Se Ho and Ihm, Chon Sun, Vocational Education System in Korea:
A Narrative on Historical Development, September 1988.
* - See Project File for the First Technology Advancement Project (Loan 3037-
KO).
** - See Project File for the Vocational Education Project (Loan 3314-KO).



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
B. Regorts and Studies Related to the Progect
B-1     The Proposed 9th IBRD Loan Project - Material for IBRD Mission, ELPD,
July 1991.
B-2     The School Curriculum of the Republic of Korea, MOE, undated.
B-3     Vocational Education Project, ELPD/MOE, March 1991.
B-4     Vocational High School Project Data, MOE, February 1990.
C.  Selected  _orking Papers
C-1     IBRD Working Paper - Action Plan and Terms of Reference for
Institutional Studies



._,,,_-_,_,_,_____________. __                                                              IBRD 23475
X_..'1 ?RUSSIA12                                                                                 29 
-. /:  _llSDEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
C H I N A                                              OF  KOREA                                
CHINA                                                                                   (J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLI(JNOIDO~
$                                    -.. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   9     5~~~~~~~-3.  7'30-
RPEP.  RDRA                                                                                                                      13V
eP.' OF
KORE APanmunjB                                                                 O
t H ;<bu'9 SCIENCEEDUCATIONNDLIBKRON
$53 -.~~~~~~~  38.                  KYO  G  I ~~~~~~~~~DO  1j  Cluncho
*"  PACJ-C O-AN                                                                            Eriar Ro
3,.
-ahlp           ...A                                                     airas
UNG-  Chonglo ~~~~~~~Wo
Yello w Sea                         oiilroAd Uhnde C
n?Ztnal ed tWaU hnk C=3 Spe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cityt ite
G^tb tnl;ont3--                 -                                  Provinc e        B     o     u     n    d     a    r    i e 3
^=atenttoretPIenx~~~~~ ~                                               REUU    OF HKEJREA
11~         SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES
ad*                ~~COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Primnary Roads
-''--Railroads
't'....-- -  Railroads Under Construction
Rivers
.5                                                         +.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
;Atfa S* of iRRI Wor                                                                    (3D   Special Cities
.,d tha       #5 he od M                                                                         Province Boundaries
anthis am'od Ret RYft on fh.
.4 o Th KMIbu Orm,                                                                       - Ch     International Boundaries
.nds..nto,.mep ot@nc  Df                                                        0    20   40   60  ,        100   1?0   I4Ot1
0 120'           t4         60       so          199;
APRIL 1992



