RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                  Report No. P-62
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
July 31, 1968



MITMEF?xTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDMET TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A DEVELOPMENT CREDIT FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TO THIE REPUBLIC OF CHA.D
1.       I submit the followAng report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$ 18 mtnlion to the Republic of Chad to assist in the financing of an
education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed credit would be the second Bank/IDA operation in
Chad. A credit of $4.1 million for a highway maintenance project was
approved by the Executive Directors on July 16, 1968.  The Credit Agree-
ment has not yet become effective.
3.       The education project was identified by an IDA/UNESCO reconnais-
sance mission in December 1965e  It was prepared with the help cf a UNESCO
mission in November 1966, and it was appraised by an IDA mission in May/
June 1967.
4.       Originally the project comprised an industrial training center,
a training center for agricultural technicians, and two small teacher
training institutes. The Association's appraisal mission found that the
industrial training center should be excluded from the project pending
the results of a UNESCO/FAO survey of needs for technical education and
vocational training, and that one larger teacher training center instead
of the two small centers would be more economical and efficient. These
suggestions were discussed with the Government and also with the French
Governmentis Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC) which would provide
the technical assistance required for a successful implementation of the
project. Agreement between the Association, the Government and FA5 was
reached on these suggestions early this year, so that the mission could
complete its appraisal of the project.
5.       Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington
from June 11 to June 13. The Government of Chad wras represented by a
delegation headed by Hr. Georges Diguimbaye, Hinister of Planning and
Cooperation.



-2-
PART II - DESCRI?rIOS: OF THE PTOPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:        Republic of Chad
Amount:          Equivalent in various currencies of $1.8 million
Purpose:         To assist in financing the construction and
equipment of a teacher training center in I-ioundou
and a training center for agricultural techni-
cians at Fort Lamy.
Amortization:    Over a period of 50 years, including 10 years of
grace, in semi-annual installments on June 1 and
December 1 each year. Commencing December 1, 1978,
each installment up to June 1, 1988 to be one-half
of one percent of the principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half
percent of such principal amount.
Service Charge: 3/4 of one percent per annum on the principal
amount of the credit disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.       A report on the project entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project
in Chad" (To 6h7a) is attached.
7.       The project would consist of the establishment of (i) a teacher
training center in Moundou providing for an enrollment of 400 full-time
students, (ii) a training center for agricultural technicians at Fort tamr
with a capacity of 120 students, and (iii) technical assistance in the form
of teaching personnel for the two centers iwhich would be provided by FAC.
8.       Both institutions are designed to meet important needs of Chadts
educational system. The lack of well-trained Chadian nationals in the
administration and in the private sector, particuJlarly in agriculture, is
one of the limiting factors for the economic development of the country.
The raising of the level of education therefore has high priority in the
Government's development plan, and the proposed project is integrated in
an overall program to reach this objective.
9.       The teacher training center at Moundou would lead to a badly needed
improvement in the training of primary school teachers. At present it is
estimated that only about 1I percent of primary school teachers are ade-
quately trained. Besides the training of the 00 flull-time students, the
center would conduct and supervise correspondence courses and in-service
training for a further 400 students. It would also provide for special
courses, such as advanced training for assistant teachers and upgrading
courses for unqualified teachers. Curricula at the center would not be
limited to educational and professional training, but wlould include work-



-3-
shop practice, farm work and instruction in building maintenance. This is
part of a commendable effort of the Government to adapt primary and second-
ary education to the specific requirements of the country, and to train
teachers who would not only contribute to economic development throuLgh
their teaching but also through taking over responsibilities in coMMLDUfity
development.
10.      The agricultural center at Fort Lamy would train extension and
supervisory workers in three-year courses comprising professional instruc-
tion and practical work on farms associated with the center and in develop-
ment projects in different areas of the country. It will have an annual
output of abolt 30 agricultural technicians which is the minimum needed to
staff extension services and agricultural projects with well-trained Chad-
ians.   A higher output is not feasible under present conditions in view
of the limited supply of suitable candidates. The center iwill be inte-
grated with the existing Animal Husbandry Institute at Fort Lamy and would
form the nucleus of an expanded agricultural education system to be develop,ed
in future years.
11.      HIost of the teaching personnel required for the two centers irll
be provided by the French Government which has also undertaken to organi.ze
training for Chadian personnel to replace expatriate staff. This technical
assistance ope-.ation by FAC is schetd-ied for a period of seven years. After
this period, the total teach-.ng staff at the agricultural center and a lar&gt
part of the teaching personnel at the teacher training institute will be
Chadians.
12.      Total cost of the project is estimated at $4 million, of which
$2.1 million will be for construction and equipment and $1.9 million for
technical assistance. In view of the poverty of Chad and of the efforts
it is making to mobilize its oTm meagre resources, I consider that it is
appropriate for the major part of the cost of this project to be financed
externally.  Of the total cost of $4 million, $1.65 rillion would be pro-
vided by FAC as a grant to cover the foreign exchange component of the
technical assistance, and $1.8 million would come from the proposed IDA
credit for construction and equipment costs, of wjhich $1.5 million would be
in foreign exchange. The Government would provide the balance of $5509000.
All procurement for construction and equipment would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUiETYrS AND AUTHORUTY
13.      The draft Credit Agreement betwTeen the Republic of Chad and the
Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article 5,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
14.      The draft Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of credit
agreements for similar education projects.



PART V - THE EC51a0i4Y
15.      The information provided in the section on the economy of Chad
in my recent report on the Highwjay Iaintenance Project (P-619, July 3, 1968)
remains valid.
PART VI - COIPLIANCE 7TIH AITICIES OF AGREEMENT
16.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply wJith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - REC,2,DATION
17.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
R3SOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Development Cr rdit 'Go the Rc?piflic of Chad
in an amount equivalent to US$ 1,800,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Chad in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one million, eight himdred thousand dollars ($1,800,000) to
mature on and prior to June 1, 2018, to bear a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1,Z) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall
be substantially in accordance ith the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Education
Project) betwJeen the Republic of Chad and the Association, htich
has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment.
'Washington, D.C.
July 31, 1968.



