Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2385a-MOR
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
April 25, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1978)
Currency Unit             =        Dirham (DH)
DH1                       =        Centimes (ctm) 100
DH1                       =        US$0.25
DH 4.00                   =        US$1.00
DH 1,000                  =        US$250.0
DH 1,000,000 (MDHl)       =        US$250,000 (MUS$0.250)
MEASURES AND TECHNICAL ABBREVIATIONS
1 kilometer (km)                                   0.62 mile (mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)                                 35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
1 barrel (bbl)                                     42 gallons (USgal)
0.159 cubic meter
1 kilovolt (kV)                                    1,000 Volts (V)
Medium voltage (MV)                 =              In Morocco: 22-kV,
8.5-kV and 5.5-kV
Low voltage (LV)                                   In Morocco: 380/220-V
1 kilowatt (kW)                                    1,000 Watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                                    1,000-kW (106w = 103kW)
1 kilowatthour (kWh)                =              1,000 Watthours (103Wh)
860.4 kilocalories (kcal)
1 Megawatthour (MWh)                -              1,000 Kilowatthours
1 Gigawatthour (GWh)                =              1,000,000 kilowatthours
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)             =              1,000 Volt amperes 'L03VA)
1 Megavolt ampere (MVA)             =              1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                -              1.163 Watthours
1 kilogram coal equivalent
(kgce)                           =              7.103 kcal
Per year                                           /a
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCER     =  Central Bureau for Rural Electrification (Bureau Central de
l'Electrification Rurale)
CICOPER     Interministerial Committee for Coordination of Rural Electrification
Program (Comité Interministériel pour la Coordination du Programme
d'Electrification Rurale)
CIER     =  Interministerial Commission for Rural Electrification (Commission
Interministérielle d'Electrification Rurale)
MEM      =  Ministry of Energy and Mines (Ministère de l'Intérieur)
ONE      =  National Office for Electricity (Office National de l'Electricité)
PU       =  Project Execution Unit (Service d'Exécution du Projet)
Regie    =  Public Enterprise for Distribution of Water and Electricity (Regie
Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d!Electricité)
WTP      =  Willingness to Pay (Consentement à Payer)
FINANCIAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I      INTRODUCTION  .........................................                               1
II      THE ENERGY  SECTOR  ....................................                              2
A.   Sector Organization  ..............................                              2
B.   Energy Policy  ....................................                              3
C.   Energy Resources  and Prospects  ...................                             3
Coal  .........................................                           3
Oil and Natural  Gas  ..........................                           3
Bituminous  Schists  ...........................                          4
Hydropower  ...................................                           4
Nuclear Fuel  Material  .....               ...................5
Past  Trends  of Consumption  ...................5
Forecast  of Primary Energy Balance  ....                 .......         5
Energy Pricing  ...............................                           6
D.   The Power  Subsector  ..............................                             6
1.   Organization  .................................                            6
Office  National  de  l'Electricite  ....               .........         7
The   Regies  ..................................                           7
Isolated  Systems  .............................                          7
Captive Plants  ...............................                           8
2.   Resources  and Development  of  the Power
Subsector  ..................................                           8
Existing  Facilities  ..........................                          8
Balance  of Energy  and Capacities  ....                .........         8
Development  Program  ..........................                          9
3.   Tariffs  ......................................                           10
Manpower  .....................................                          il
III      THE RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT   l....                            i
A.   The Program  ......................................                            il
General  ...                                                             il
Genesis of  the Rural  Electrification Program..                         12
Objectives  of  the Program  ....................                        13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
B.    The  Project   ......................................  13
Scope, Location and Objectives ....    ...........  13
Description   ..................................     14
Cost .      .........................................  14
Management of Rural Electrification Program...       15
Lending Arrangements .........................      17
Engineering and Construction ....     .............  18
Procurement   ..................................     18
Schedule of Activities and Disbursements   .....     19
Environmental Impact and Risks ....    ...........   19
Operation and Maintenance .....     ...............  19
Housewiring   ..................................     20
Monitoring and Statistical Data ....    ..........  20
IV    FINANCIAL ASPECTS ....................................      20
Past Performance ..................................     20
Financing Plan ...................................      20
Ownership and Operation and Maintenance of
Project Facilities .............................      22
Financial Forecasts ..............................      23
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .24
A. Load Forecast .24
B. Least Cost Investment .25
C. Return on Investment .26
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS .27
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 2.1 - Historic and Forecast Sales of ONE and Regies
ANNEX 2.2 - Historic and Forecast Balances of Energy and Capacities
ANNEX 3.1 - Project Location and Size
ANNEX 3.2 - Development of Project Cost Estimates
ANNEX 3.3 - Project Management Organization
ANNEX 3.4 - Estimated Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 3.5 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 3.6 - Guidelines for Monitoring the National Rural
Electrification Program
ANNEX 4.1 - Project Income Accounts
ANNEX 5.1 - Load Forecast
ANNEX 5.2 - Estimates of Forecasting Parameters
ANNEX 5.3 - Return on Investment
ANNEX 6.1 - Documents Available in the Project File



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Morocco has asked the Bank for assistance in
financing the foreign cost of a Village Electrification Project. The Project
constitutes the first four years (1980-1983) of a 15-year national village
electrification program. It would extend electric service to about 220
village Centers in 17 provinces with about 360,000 potential beneficiaries.
The Project consist of about 2,250 km of 22-kV and 380/220-volt lines and
related equipment, 45 MVA of distribution transformer capacity, streetlighting
and consulting services. The estimated cost of the Project is US$85 million,
of which US$42 million would be foreign and US$43 million local. The proposed
Bank loan to the Government would finance the entire foreign cost of the
Project. The local cost and any cost overruns would be financed by the
Government.
1.02      The Project would streamline the management of the ongoing rural
electrification program. It would reduce the overall cost of rural electri-
fication in Morocco through economies of scale in planning, procurement, and
construction. The Project would also encourage coordination of local cost
finançing and strengt-hen the institutions responsible for formulating future
village electrification projects.
1.03      The proposed loan would be the Bank's third lending operation
for power in Morocco. The first - 936-MOR, made in October 1973 - was for
US$25 million and financed the foreign cost of (a) installing two 20-MW gas
turbines; (b) 584 km of 225-kV transmission line; (c) upgrading, from 150-kV
to 225-kV, of 428 km of transmission lines; (d) upgrading, extending and
constructing eight 225-kV substations; and (e) several studies related to
planning in the power subsector. Although the project has been physically
completed, feasibility studies for future multipurpose hydro projects,
financed from the loan proceeds, have not been completed. Consequently, the
closing date of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1979 to allow for
their completion.  The second loan - 1299-MOR, made in July 1976 - was for
US$49 million and financed about 54% of the foreign cost of the Sidi Cheho-Al
Massira Hydro Project, including 120-MW power station and 200 km of 225-kV
transmission line. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and
station commissioning is planned for early 1980.
1.04      The Project has been prepared following a feasibility study prepared
by Mr. Maistre (Consultant) and is financed by an advance under the Project
Preparation Facility of US$90,000. An appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. I. Elwan (Economist), A. Onslow (Financial Analyst), E. Linard de
Guertechin (Engineer), L. Maistre (Consultant), C. Christofides (Consultant)
and R. Dujon (Consultant), visited Morocco in September/October 1978.



- 2 -
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Sector Organization
2.01      The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for the
overall development planning of the Sector, pricing of energy and coordination
of investments. It also manages the Government's oil, gas and uranium explor-
ation efforts and has administrative control over the public enterprise
responsible for most of the electricity generated and transmitted in Morocco
(Office National de l'Electricite, ONE). The Ministry of Interior (MI) super-
vises the overall performance of the public enterprises responsible for the
distribution of water and electricity in the large urban areas (regies) and
participates in formulating the plans for the development of infrastructural
facilities in the rural areas including village electrification. MI's rep-
resentative heads the commission for rural electrification (Commission
Interministerielle de l'Electrification Rural - CIER) composed of represen-
tatives from the Ministries of Energy, Agriculture, Finance, Housing and
Planning and ONE. The Commission has been responsible for defining the
Government's yearly programs for village electrification financed from the
national budgets. Implementation of these programs was entrusted to ONE.
2.02      The fragmentation of control over the power subsector hinders the
coordination of investment planning and financing, particularly for urban dis-
tribution and rural electrification. In an effort to overcome this shortcoming,
the Government agreed under the loan for Sidi Cheho-Al Massira Hydro Project
(Loan 1299-MOR) to formulate, by July 31, 1977 or later, as the Bank would
agree, recommendations for improving the organization of the power subsector.
The Government requested Electricite de France (EdF) to undertake a study
for improving the organization of the power subsector, including financing,
tariffs and planning. Several extensions of the due date were granted to
allow the Government adequate time to review EdF's recommendations. This
is an outstanding issue from Loan 1299-MOR.  During the appraisal mission,
the Government agreed to discuss its proposals for improving the organization
of the subsector at the negotiations for the proposed loan. Subsequently, the
Government forwarded to the Bank, for review, its draft proposals for restruc-
turing the tariffs. The Government appointed an interministerial Committee
which is expected to draw a set of proposals for improving the organization
of the power subsector. These proposals will cover: (i) a new structure for
electricity tariffs that would phase out all financial subsidies to industrial
customers and the regies; (ii) guidelines for integrating the Government plans
for rural development with the future phases of the 15-year rural electrifica-
tion program; and (iii) an organizational structure for coordinating investment
planning throughout the subsector (regies and ONE). The final recommendation
of the Committee would be submitted to the Government in January 1980.  Mean-
while, the Committee's draft proposals were reviewed with the Bank during
negotiations. In accordance with the undertakings under previous loans, the
Bank will periodically exchange views with the Government and ONE on matters
that relate to the power subsector. The organizational weaknesses of the



- 3 -
rural electrification program has been improved as a result of the Govern-
ment's agreement to clearly delineate the responsibilities of MI, CIER and
ONE, reorganize the flow of funds to the program and strengthen the staffing
of ONE and MI. The Bank's involvement in Project preparation has already
contributed to the formulation of a long run least cost investment program for
rural electrification. The proposed loan would also strengtheu the planning
capabilities of MI and ONE through the assistance of the Project Consultants
who would develop and train their staff on the use of more advanced tools and
methodology for future Project planning and management (para 3.17).
B. Energy Policy
2.03      The Government is currently in the process of finalizing its long-
term energy development plan. The plan calls for the acceleration of the
development programs for all domestic energy resources to decrease Morocco's
dependence on imported oil and ensure a minimum supply of energy for future
needs. This involves: (i) an extensive onshore and offshore exploration
program for oil and gas (para 2.05); (ii) the acquisition of technology for
the extraction of oil from the country's oil shale deposits (para 2.07);
(iii) the reduction of oil and gas used for power generation by substituting
oil shale, coal, hydro potential and nuclear energy in meeting future demand
for power (para 2.08); and (iv) increased conservation in the consumption of
energy by bringing the prices of energy resources in line with their oppor-
tunity cost to the economy (paras 2.15, 2.28, 2.29).
C. Energy Resources and Prospects
Coal
2.04      Coal is at present Morocco's main indigenous fossil fuel resource
with estimated probable reserves of 36 million tons. Its calorific value is
relatively high, ranging, for the most part, from 6,600 to 7,000 K cal/kg.
The current coal production of approximately 700,000 ton/year is sufficient
to meet Morocco's needs, which are primarily for power generation. During the
next three years, the Government plans to increase production to 1 million
ton/year to meet the increased demand by industry.
Oil and Natural Gas
2.05      Morocco's domestic production of oil continues to decrease, reaching
in 1978 approximately 450 barrels/day as compared to a daily demand of 50,000
barrels/day.  Gas reserves are estimated to be sufficient 9o meet 32 years of
demand at the current rate of consumption of about 82 x 10 cum/year. Gas
is principally used by the fertilizer industry, and its contribution to the
total demand for energy is insignificant.  In 1978, gas accounted for only
1.5% of the total energy consumed in Morocco. Recently, the Government has
intensified its program of onshore and offshore exploration for oil and gas.
Offshore exploration has started in the form of joint venture arrangement with



4 -
foreign companies. The Government has expressed interest in Bank financing
for efforts aimed at confirming potential fields in the Karia and Tissa region
in the north and in the Essaouira region in the southwest where fields have
been discovered in the past. The Bank is presently assessing the best strategy
for its involvement in the oil and gas subsector.
Bituminous Schists
2.06      Oil shales exist at Timhadite and Tarfaya with estimated reserves
of about 24 billion tons. The deposits at Timhadite are estimated to have
2 billion tons of shale with oil content of about 10% and an additional 20
billion tons with approximately 7% oil. At Tarfaya there are large low-grade
deposits with an average oil content of about 4%. The Government intends to
use the shale for the extraction of oil (synthetic oil) and the generation of
electricity by burning the shale in specially designed burners. Both uses,
however, involve new technologies that are currently used in only small scale
pilot projects.
2.07      The current plan for synthetic oil production calls for a daily
output of 50,000 bbl by the mid eighties. Preliminary estimates of the cost
are put at $22-$30/bbl, depending on the technology used. However, this cost
could be reduced by the time actual production starts because of the potential
for improved technology. The appropriate technology for mining the Moroccan
oil shale will be determined by Occidental (U.S. firm) which has been recently
awarded a U.S.$3 million contract for that purpose.
2.08      The Government through ONE is also in the process of negotiating a
contract with a consortium of Romanian and West German firms for the construc-
tion of four small generating plants (200 MW each) that would use shale oil
for fuel. If che small plants prove successful, ONE intends to build a large
plant (about 750 MW), to make use of available oil shale reserves. However,
because of the technical problems involved, especially with sulfur pollution,
the likelihood of actually building a plant with a capacity greater than 300
MW is small.
Hydropower
2.09      Morocco's hydroelectric resources are developed in three main
basins of the Moulouya, Sebou and Oum R'bia rivers. At present, the existing
hydropower facilities yield an average annual generation of about 1,470 GWh
and the (1980-1990) development program is expected to add another 1,400
GWh. Future development of potential hydro sites is constrained by the short
rainy seasons and the fact that existing and new hydro developments are being
increasingly used for irrigation, which diminishes their power generation
capabilities. The need to allocate water between power generation and irriga-
tion prompted the Government to commission a study for the preparation of a
master plan for each of the river basins. The Master Plan for the Oum R'bia
basin was finalized in 1975 and implementation of its first two stages has
been supported by Bank loans for irrigation and power (Loans 936, 1201, 1299
and 1416-MOR). In addition, ONE assisted by consultants financed by the Bank
(loan 936-MOR), are in the process of completing feasibility studies and
preliminary design for 1984-1990 hydro developments program.



-5-
Nuclear Fuel Material
2.10      Morocco's large reserves of phosphate (about 50 billion tons) are
estimated to have a uranium content of 150-200 grams per ton. Extraction
would, however, be uneconomic with present technology. The Government is
exploring thf possibilies of using the extract for fueling a nuclear power
plant, however, progress has been slow and success in the immediate future is
unlikely. No commercially exploitable deposits of primary uranium have so far
been discovered in Morocco.
Past Trends of Consumption
2.11      Although there has been an upward trend in the consumption of
primary energy during the past decade, Morocco's per capita consumption of
energy is at the lower end of the international energy consumption scale.
In 1976, Morocco had an average energy consumption of 273 kgce/ capita as
compared to the international average for that year of 1,984 kgce/ capita. It
also had the lowest per capita consumption of energy in North Africa where
Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt had energy consumption levels of 729, 456 and 473
kgce/capita respectively.
2.12      Morocco's primary energy consumption for 1961-1978 increased
at an average annual rate of about 7%, reflecting the country's move towards
a more energy intensive pattern of consumption. This consumption has been
shifting in favor of oil. The share of oil in the country's total energy
requirements increased from 64% in 1961 to about 80% in 1977, resulting
in increased depedence on imported oil and heavier burden on the balance of
payments. In 1977, imports of oil products amounted to three million tons at
a cost of approximately DH 1.7 billion (US$425 million), representing about
12% of Morocco's imports and 28% of its exports in that year. The contribu-
tion of the non-conventional sources of energy to the total energy needs has
been insignificant and is unlikely to improve within the next 10 years.
Forecast of Primary Energy Balance
2.13      Morocco's demand for primary energy is expected to grow at an
average annual rate of 10% for the next 10 years. This growth is consistent
with increased emphasis on industrialization and mechanization of agriculture
and the Government's efforts to improve the access of the population to energy
particularly in the rural and depressed areas. On the supply side, both
coal and hydro will not contribute significantly to meeting the future growth
in demand for energy because of constraints on the availability of these
resources. Consequently, unless new oil and gas are discovered and the
extraction of synthetic oil from oil shale is successful, the bulk of the
country's primary energy requirements would have to be imported.  Morocco has
a significant solar energy potential that could be developed to meet part of
the country's demand for energy. Assessment of potential uses for solar
energy will commence after the institute for solar energy studies at Marrakech
is established. The institute would be sponsored by MEM assisted financially
and technically by the USAID. However, until the technology is fully
developed, the use of solar energy would probably be limited to supporting
other conventional energy resources.



-6-
2.14      It is unlikely that for the next ten years, the Government's efforts
to develop the domestic energy resources would significantly reduce Morocco's
continued dependence on imported energy resources because of the capital
required for extracting oil from oil shale and the experimental nature of the
existing technology. However, full implementation of the current plans to
increase energy prices to their international level and the emphasis put on
conservation will result in a more efficient use of energy resources.
Energy Pricing
2.15      Prices for all types of energy are fixed by the Government.  Prior
to January 1, 1979, the prices paid by industry and domestic consumers for
fuel oil, gas oil and kerosene were subsidized. The cost of these subsidies
was recovered through a special tax levied on consumption of gasoline.
Between 1962 and 1973, the cost of subsidies was more than offset by the
revenues from the special tax. However, the increase in t'te price of oil
after 1973, resulted in a deficit of DH 460 million ( US$115 million) for
1975. In 1976, the prices of petroleum products were increased and subsidies
decreased, reducing the deficit to DH 92 million (US$23 million) for that
year. Finally, on January 1, 1979, the prices of petroleum products were
increased and the remaining subsidies for fuel oil, gas oil and kerosene were
eliminated bringing the domestic prices of these products in line with
their cost to the economy, i.e. the international price. In the power sub-
sector, however, because of the prevailing structure of tariffs, small con-
sumers are paying more than their share of costs as compared to large indus-
trial consumers and some of the regies.  As already agreed during the apprai-
sal mission, the Government reviewed with the Bank, during negotiations, its
proposals for improving the tariff structure.  The Government plans to elimi-
nate subsidies in the power subsector.  An interministerial committee was
appointed to propose (among other things) a new tariff structure that would
phase out financial subsidies to large industrial consumers and the regies.
The recommendation of the committee would be finalized by January 1980 and
the Government has agreed to periodically review with the Bank all changes
relating to the power subsector including tariffs. Meanwhile, until the new
tariff structure is finalized, an interim increase of the average tariff by
22% was introduced on January lst, 1979 to cover the increase in the price
paid by ONE for fuel oil and ensure a 20% internal cash contribution to its
development program (paras. 2.29 and 4.02).
D. The Power Subsector
1. Organization
2.16      ONE generates approximately 91.0% of the electric power in the
country and transmits it to the load centers. Captive plants, generally
linkéd to industrial enterprises, produce an additional 8% and the rest,
about 1%, is generated by small isolated systems in about 187 remote villages.
In addition to generation and transmission, ONE distributes around 40% of its
production of electricity in the provincial cities and rural areas connected
to its grid. The remaining 60% is sold to the regies and the large, industrial
customers. The regies then distribute the electricity within the large urban,
population centers.



-7-
Office National de l'Electricite
2.17      ONE's overall management is satisfactory and its technical stand-
ards for construction and operation are good. ONE has been able, through an
ongoing training program, to improve the quality of its technical staff, while
replacing expatriate personnel by qualified Moroccans except for a few expatri-
ates with duties requiring substantial expertise. However, it still has some
staffing weaknesses in the fields of accounting, finance and development
planning. Project implementation would strengthen ONE capabilities in cost
accounting, work scheduling, inventory control and planning of rural distri-
bution networks (paras 3.15 and 3.17).
The Regies
2.18      The regies are defined by Moroccan law as financially and adminis-
tratively autonomous enterprises entrusted with the distribution of water and
electricity within an identified urban perimeter. Since the creation of the
first regie at Casablanca in 1962, the number of regies has increased to 13
all under the administrative control of MI. The principal criterion for the
creation of a regie is its ability to ensure proper technical services and
maintain financial autonomy. Technically and with few exceptions, the regies
are well organized with each having a separate technical department for power
and water and a combined unit for administrative and accounting services.
Financially, autonomy is defined by the Government as the capability of the
regie to cover its operating costs from services (water and electricity sales)
and finance its development program without subsidy or budgetary transfers
from the Government. The attainment of this autonomy, however, is not fully
enforced on all regies because financially weak regies receive financial
subsidies by paying reduced tariffs for power purchased from ONE. ONE, in
turn, either makes up the difference from other customer classes and the
financially viable regies or recovers it from the Government (para. 2.28).
The Government is currently in the process of introducing a new tariff
structure that would phase out subsidies to the regies and large industrial
consumers (para 2.15).
Isolated Systems
2.19      Isolated systems, consisting of small diesel generators and rudi-
mentary distribution networks, are installed in 187 remote villages to provide
lighting for streets and a few buildings. These installations are financed by
MI from its budget for municipal equipment. Daily operation is ensured by
local authorities while maintenance is entrusted to ONE. The quality of
electricity supply in the isolated system is poor and generally unreliable.
At least one-third of the small generators are in poor condition and the rest
are overloaded and deteriorating fast. The Project would connect 30 of the
187 villages with isolated systems to the national grid which would enable the
inhabitants of these villages to use electricity for domestic purposes and
irrigation pumping.



- 8-
Captive Plants
2.20      Twenty-two industrial enterprises have their own generating facili-
ties because of specific steam generation requirements (sugar refineries and
paper mills) for standby reasons (mines and oil refineries). Most of these
facilities are connected to ONE's grid for interchange of energy, however,
there is a growing tendency for these enterprises to rely on the central grid
because of the continued improvement in ONE's operations.
2. Resources and Development of the Power Subsector:
Existing Facilities
2.21      By the end of 1978, ONE's total installed capacity was 1,063 MW of
which 396 MW (37%) was in hydro capacity and 667 MW (63%) in thermal capacity.
During a year of average rainfall hydro generation is around 1,470 GWh/a,
however, only 950 GWh/a is firm in dry years. For 1978, total generation was
3,970 GWh and the maximum demand was 765 MW. For transmission, the 225-kV
grid is progressively replacing the former 150-kV system. A 60-kV subtrans-
mission network transports energy to the distribution system at 22 kV. The
22-kV network is replacing the former 8.5-kV and 5.5-kV networks.
Balance of Energy and Capacities
2.22      The historical and forecast sales of electricity by ONE and the
regies to their respective customers are presented in Annex 2.1. Between
1968 and 1978, electricity sales to all customer classes grew at an average
annual rate of about 9.3%. During that period, ONE sales to the regies
increased at an average annual rate of 8.7%. Its sales to industry and
the residential customers increased an an average annual rate of 9.8% and
11.9% respectively. For the past five years, industrial consumers accounted
for about 71% of total electricity sales and the domestic and small commercial
consumers accounted for approximately 29%. The division of sales between
these two customer groups has been stable for the past five years and is not
expected to change substantially for the next five years.
2.23      Electricity sales to all customer classes are expected to grow at
an average rate of about 10% for the period 1978-1983, which is slightly
higher than the growth rate for 1968-1977. ONE's sales to heavy industry
are expected to grow at an average rate of 12.4%, while sales by either the
regies or ONE to their respective final customers are expected to grow at
almost the same rate as was achieved between 1968 and 1977.
2.24      Forecast of the balance of energy and capacities for 1979-1983,
presented in Annex 2.2. Since sales to the Project beneficiaries would be
small (0.03% in 1980 and growing to 0.13% in 1983) relative to ONE's total
sales, the Project is not expected to impose any constraints on its ability to
meet future demand for electricity.



-9-
Development Program
2.25      Implementation of ONE's generation development program for 1978-1983
is underway. The hydropower development involves the completion of Sidi Cheho
Ai Massira (2 x 75 MW), partly financed by the Bank (Loan 1299-MOR), which is
progressing s-tisfactorily with commissioning planned for early 1980. The
program for the development of thermal generation consists of two oil-fired
steam plants at Kenitra and Mohammedia. The plant at Kenitra (4 x 75 MW) is
nearly completed while that at Mohammedia (4 x 150 MW) is currently in its
final design stages. The development program for transmission and distribution
for 1978-1983 involves the extension and reinforcement of the 225-kV grid and
60-kV network to support the expansion of the urban and rural distribution
systems. The Project facilities at the 22-kV and low voltage level would be
supplied through ONE's existing networks with the exception of the project
components around Tafraoute and Zagora, which would be supplied from the
extension of the 60-kV network scheduled for completion by 1980. The cost of
ONE's 1978-1983 system development program is estimated at DH 2,685 million
(US$671 million), expressed in 1977 prices. Financing for the program is
secured through internal cash contribution, suppliers' credits and a proposed
issue of 15-year local bonds.
2.26      The 1984-1990 generation development program tentatively includes
seven hydro projects (dams, water conduits and power stations) with an
installed capacity of approximately 872 MW and average generation of around
1,400 GWh/a. Feasibility studies, financed from Loan 936-MOR, are currently
underway with a view to finalizing geological investigations, preliminary
designs and cost estimates. The Bank has been urging ONE to finalize its
long-term (1984-1990) least cost development program, currently scheduled
for completion by early 1980, to allow sufficient time for implementation.
However, so far, ONE has been only able to develop a tentative program mainly
because of uncertainties concerning the outcome of the negotiations for pro-
duction of synthetic oil, the Government's nuelear program and its own
negotiations for the construction of generating plants that burn shade oil.
Economic comparison of these alternatives including the evaluation of multi-
purpose hydro projects will be essential for formulating a least cost develop-
ment program for the subsector. The Bank agreed with the Government and ONE
on procedures for periodical consultation on ways for introducing dynamic
least cost methodology in investment planning.
2.27      The tentative development programs of the regies for 1978-1982 is
expected to expand the urban distribution grid by about 6% a year. The devel-
opment programs of the regies are not usually coordinated between them nor
meshed with ONE's transmission system expansion program. Financing for the
programs are secured through Government loans and prepaid customer connection
charges. However, because of the Government's current program for economic
austerity, it is unlikely that a significant proportion of financing would be
covered from Government loans. This would make the prepaid customer connecte
charges the principal source for financing the development programs of the
regies which tends to discriminate against the low income groups and erode



- 10 -
the urban poor's access to electricity. As agreed during the appraisal
mission, the Government reviewed its draft proposals for improving the
Organization of the power subsector including the improvement of the regies'
finances and increasing the urban poor's access to electricity (para 2.02).
The Government has agreed to periodically review with the Bank all changes
proposed for improving development planning in the power subsector. The
interministerial committee is expected to issue guidelines requiring the
regies to prepare pluri-annual development programs for inclusion in the
1981-1985 national development plan.
3.   Tariffs
2.28      Electricity tariffs are set by ONE under the supervision of MEM.
Under the prevailing structure, end consumers in the same customer class pay
identical rate for electricity irrespective of their supplier. In addition,
the large industrial consumers and some of the regies are financially subsi-
dized by either the low voltage consumers or the`Government, leaving ONE's
financial position unaffected. In 1977, the last year for which the Bank has
detailed cost data for ONE, ONE's average cost of delivering electricity to
the industrial customers was DH 0.1509/kWh (US$.037/kWh) and the tariff was
DU 0.118/kWh (US$.030/kWh), resulting in a deficit of about DH 0.032/kWh
(US$0.007 kWh) sold. The deficit was recovered from the rest of ONE's cus-
tomers. Although the industrial tariff was increased in 1978 to DH 0.14/kWh
(US$.035/kWh), the deficit continued, because: (i) ONE's cost of production
for that year was higher than the cost for 1977; and (ii) the new tariff was
lower than ONE average cost of supply for 1977. However, since 1977 the
magnitude of the deficit incurred from the sale of power to the large indus-
trial consumers has been decreasing. This decrease is consistent with the
Governanent's plan to eliminate subsidies in the power subsector. The inter-
ministerial committee (para 2.02) will propose a new tariff structure by
January 1980 which is expected to gradually phase out all subsidies in the
subsector. Meanwhile, as an interim measure and to further decrease the
magnitude of subsidies extended to industry through electricity tariffs,
the 22% increase in the average tariff introduced in January 1979, resulted
in increases in the tariffs for industrial consumption in excess of 30%.
2.29      Since ONE sets the tariffs for sale of electricity throughout
the country, its tariffs for sale to the low and medium voltage customers
determines the revenues of the regies from the sale of electricity, and
concurrently, its tariff for bulk sales determines a significant proportion
of the regies' cost of operation; namely, the cost of power purchased for
distribution. To protect the finances of the regies, the Government requires
that their net revenues remain unaffected by tariff increases. As a result,
regies that would be affected by a tariff increase pay ONE a lower bulk rate
than the regies that can absorb the change with the balance fully recovered
from the rest of the customers or the Government. For example, the 22%
increase the tariff levels implemented on January 1, 1979, did not increase
the cost of electricity to all the regies by that same amount, but varied from
13% for the regie of Tanger to 28% for the regie of Kenitra. The recommenda-
tions of the interministerial committee will address the relationship between



- il -
ONE and the regies including new tariffs for bulk electricity sales and
investment financing for the power subsector as a whole.
2.30      For 1977, the average tariff for sale to the low voltage consumers
was DH 0.459/kWh (US$0.11/kWh) and ONE's cost of delivering power to these
consumers was DH 0.259/kWh (US$.065/kWh) which left a surplus of about DH
0.20/kWh. The surplus for 1978 cannot be determined because the final pro-
duction costs for that year are not yet available. After the tariff increase
of January 1, 1979, the average tariff for sales to the low voltage consumers
increased to DH 0.63/kWh (US$0.16/kWh). However, because of the increase in
ONE cost of production attributable to the increase in the price of fuel oil,
the magnitude of the surplus is expected to decrease substantially for 1979.
The Government intends to eliminate the surplus accruing from sales to the low
voltage consumers by the time subsidies to the regies and industrial consumers
are withdrawn.
Manpower
2.31      By the end of 1977, ONE had a total of 4,773 employees of which
1,400 are assigned to regional offices responsible for the operation and
maintenance of its distribution network including the rural distribution
system. ONE has an efficient training center at Ain Sebaa (Casablanca) with
about 250 places where about 400 employees are trained every year in various
skills needed by the utility. On the other hand, the regies had between them
5,100 employees with 2,300 assigned to electricity distribution and the rest
to water distribution in 1977. In 1975 with foreign assistance (France), the
regies created a common technical training center in Casablanca with about 100
places for improving the qualification of their technical staff.
III. THE RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. The Program
General
3.01      Administratively, Morocco is divided into eight economic regions
encompassing 34 provinces. Provinces are divided into districts, each com-
posed of several communes. Communes consist of "douars" which are clusters of
rural habitats located in relative proximity to each other (usually not more
than 3 kilometers). In 1978, there were about 900 communes in Morocco with
33,000 douars. The average douar had approximately 40 dwellings and about
240 rural inhabitants. Each commune has at least one center, depending on the
number of inhabitants. Centers are the seat of the local government, admin-
istration, schools, health facilities, market and commercial activities.
3.02      On the average, douars are about a quarter of a kilometer apart
with approximately 60% located within a radius of about two kilometers around



- 12 -
the center of the commune. The rest of the douars are usually scattered
throughout the outer perimeter of the commune. The Government, being aware of
the impact of the rural setting on the cost of developing the rural areas, is
trying to minimize that cost, by extending infrastructural facilities and
cottage industries to the centers as a first step in implementing its develop-
ment program. Initial emphasis on developing the centers has the advantage of
spreading the benefits of the development efforts over the largest possible
number of inhabitants, and also stimulating migration closer into the centers,
thus avoiding the need to allocate future resources for the extension of
public services to the remote douars later on.
3.03      Increasing the rural population's access to electricity has always
been an important objective of the Government's plan for rural developmént.
Since its inception in 1950, the Government's rural electrification program
connected 461 centers to the public grid and installed small generators in 187
remote centers. Progress of the program has been slow, however, because of
its total dependence on the availability of public funds.
Genesis of the 15-year National Rural Electrification Program
3.04      In 1977 and for the first time, the Government (CIER, MI and ONE)
formulated a five year program (1978-1982) for the electrification of 500
village centers. The Government requested Bank assistance in financing the
program because of expected shortage in its future reserve of foreign exchange.
After Bank review, the proposed program was reformulated according to least
cost methodology. The reformulation was carried out in a study by Mr. L.
Maistre (French consultants) financed through the Bank's Project Preparation
Facility. The main criterion used for reformulating the national electrifica-
tion program was that the set of villages it designates for electrification
would maximize the expected benefits to the rural population while imposing the
lowest feasible cost on the economy. The benefits are expressed in terms of
sales to private and Government small irrigation schemes, agro-industries,
domestic consumers and public uses such as schools, public lighting, adminis-
trative buildings, etc. The reformulated program would take 15 years to
implement. To facilitate its implementation, the program is divided into
phases with the villages in the first phase having the highest benefits, the
villages in the second phase having lower benefits than those in the first
phase, and so on. By the end of 15 years, the program is expected to connect
1,800 villages (900 centers and most of the large douars located on the outer
perimeter of the communes) to the public grid which would result in an addi-
tional 1.8 million rural inhabitants gaining access to electricity. The CIER
has adopted the 15-year program as the national rural electrification program
in replacement of the five year program (1978-1982) it has previously proposed.
During the preparation of the 15-year program, the feasibility of using solar
energy and micro-hydro schemes was addressed by the consultant. A solar
energy component was included in the third phase of the program. A solar
component was not included in the Project (first phase) because the cost of
the equipment was found to be significantly greater than the benefits it would
yield. Further studies in the use of solar energy will be undertaken by the



- 13 -
institute for established through financial and technical assistance from
USAID (para 2.13). The consultant also proposed several sites for micro-hydro
schemes for the third phase of the program and pointed to the need for more
detailed studies. The USAID has expressed its interest in financing detailed
design and planning studies which would result in a plan for implementing a
micro-hydro '-ystem throughout Morocco. Preparations for the studies are
currently underway.
Objectives of the Program
3.05      Morocco's national rural electrification program has two principal
objectives: a) to increase Morocco's rural population's access to electricity;
and b) to improve the productivity of the agriculture sector.
(a)  Increased Access to Electricity.  In 1978, only 5.8% (650,000)
of Morocco's 11.3 million rural inhabitants had access to
electricity compared to 60% of the country's urban population
of 6 million. The lack of infrastructural services such as
water, electricity, roads, etc. has been singled out as one of
the main causes of the migration of the rural population to the
urban areas of Morocco. This migration continues to aggravate
the country's urban poverty problem. The rural electrification
program together with other Government programs for rural
development are expected to stem rural migration by providing
basic infrastructural services and creating employment oppor-
tunities by promoting agroindustries.
(b)  Improving the Productivity of the Agriculture Sector.  The
program aims at increasing the productivity of the agriculture
sector, by: (i) making electric power available for irrigation
pumping schemes that would increase the total cultivated area
in Morocco and imporve the yield of areas that are currently
being irrigated inefficiently; and (ii) reducing the economic
cost of energy used for driving the irrigation pumps by substi-
tuting electricity for the diesel currently being used. This
substitution would result in savings to the economy because ONE
would generate the electricity using primary energy resources
such as coal, fuel oil and hydro that on the average would have
a lower economic cost than the opportunity cost of diesel
extracted from imported oil.
B. The Project
Scope, Location and Objectives
3.06      The Project constitutes the first phase (1979-1983) of the 15-year
national rural electrification program. It would extend electric service
from the national grid to approximately 220 new centers in the provinces of
Chaouen, Nador, Oujda, Figuig, AI Hoceima, Taza Fes, Kenitra and Khemisset in



- 14 -
the northern part of the country (95 Centers), the provinces of Beni Mellal,
Khourigba and Settat in the center of the country (100 Centers) and the
provinces of Agadir, Ouarzazate, Tata, Tan Tan and Tiznit in the southern
region of the country (35 Centers) (see Annex 3.1). It would provide elec-
tricity to approximately 360,000 rural inhabitants and relted agricultural
uses. The Project would also strengthen the existing institutions in the
subsector and eliminate the currently fragmented management of Morocco's rural
electrification program by delineating the responsibilities of the entities
involved in planning, managing and executing the program.
Description
3.07      The Project consists of about 1,250 km of 22-kV sub-transmission
lines, 995 km of 380/220-volt distribution lines and related equipment, about
45 MVA of 22/0.4-kV distribution transformer capacity, streetlighting, and
consulting services for assistance in engineering design, project management
and formulation of models for work scheduling, cost accounting and inventory
control.
Cost
3.08      The estimated cost of the Project, excluding interest during con-
struction, is DH 340 million (US$85.0 million), of which DH 168 million (US$42
million) would be foreign and DH 172 million (US$43.0 million) local cost.
The costs are summarized below and are given in detail in Annex 3.2.
------ DH Million -----    ----- US$ Million -----
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Overhead 22-kV
Distribution Lines          20.4    35.8       56.2       5.1      9.0      14.1
Distribution Transformers    1.1       4.3        5.4       0.2      1.0       1.2
380/220-Volt Distribution
Systems and Related
Equipment                   32.1    62.9       95.0       8.1     15.7      23.8
Public Lighting                2.2     9.2       11.4       0.6      2.3       2.9
Engineering and
Administration              10.8     6.0       16.8       2.7      1.5       4.2
Subtotal                 66.6   118.2       184.8     16.7      29.5      46.2
Import Duties and Taxes       46.2     -         46.2      11.6       -       11.6
Total Base Cost         112.8   118.2       231.0     28.3      29.5      57.8
Cont ingenc ies:
Physical                     7.0    12.0       19.0       1.7      3.0       4.7
Price                       52.2    37.8       90.0      13.0      9.5      22.5
Total Project Cost      172.0   168.0       340.0     43.0      42.0      85.0



- 15 -
3.09      The Project cost estimate was developed by the consultant in colla-
boration with ONE. The cost of equipment and materials for the Project is
based on prices that prevailed in mid 1978 while the cost of civil works and
erection is based on the value of construction contracts awarded by ONE to
contractors in 1978 and early 1979. The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million
would cover the foreign exchange cost of the Project (para 3.20). The foreign
cost of engineering included in the estimate of the Project cost would cover:
(i) direct foreign exchange cost of 72 man-months at ITJS$8,300/man-month
totalling DH 2.4 million (US$600,000); (ii) foreign exchange cost for engi-
neering equipment used by ONE which would amount to DH 3.2 million (US$800,000);
(iii) the sum of DR 360,000 (US$90,000) to cover the advance extended under
the Bank's Project preparation facility to finance the study for the formula-
tion of the 15-year national rural electrification program; and (iv) the
foreign exchange cost of local expenditures for goods and works amounting to
US$10.1 million. Import duties have been calculated at 20% and taxes (Taxe
sur les Produits et Services) at 11.25%. A 10% physical contingency has been
assumed for both local and foreign costs. Price contingency has been assumed
to be 7.5% for 1979 and 7% thereafter for foreign costs and 10% per year for
local costs.
3.10      The average cost per connection, based on 60,000 potential connec-
tions, is about DH 5,600 (US$1,400). This cost which includes import duties,
taxes and escalation, is high relative to other countries with similar Bank
projects. However, the following factors are responsible for the difference:
(i) the unique setting of Morocco's rural areas where rural habitats (douars)
and villages are located further away from each other than villages *in other
countries; and (ii) the problems with the corrosion of equipment in coastal
areas and topographical conditions inland requires a higher quality of equip-
ment for the 22-kV systems which raises their base cost by a factor of 14%
relative to the cost of equipment that would be otjerwise used. The cost per
connection excluding import duties and taxes is DH 4,750 (US$1,180) which is a
better measure of the cost incurred by the Government in extending electricity
service to areas affected by the Project.
Management of Rural Electrification Program
3.11      At present, management of the ongoing rural electrification program
is the responsibility of the CIER, the Infrastructural Planning Division of
the MI, and ONE's distribution department. MI coordinates the local govern-
ment's (communes) yearly requests for infrastructural projects, including
electrification. ONE provides an estimate of the cost of electrifying each
of the communes. Finally, the CIER reviews the estimates and selects a
project consisting of several communes to be electrified, at a cost not
exceeding the yearly allocation from the national budget.
3.12      The overall management of the ongoing program has been weak
because of the short-term nature of its planning cycle, the division of
responsibilities between entities involved in the program and serious shortage
of staff to manage the program. Furthermore, some of CIER member ministries
(i.e. the Ministries of Interior, Agriculture and Land Reform, and Housing)



- 16 -
had their own budgetary allocation for rural electrification, which resulted
in having each emphasizing its own list of priority communes. The Division
of Infrastructural planning at MI, while having widespread responsibilities
for infrastructural projects such as potable water, sewage and rural electri-
fication, has been severely understaffed and consequently unable to coordi-
nate the activities of the various ministries involved in the program.
Furthermore, its collection of socio-economic data on rural Morocco has been
lacking. ONE's distribution department has been acting in a supervisory
capacity leaving the implementation of the program to contractors. Contrac-
tors were responsible for surveying, preparation, and procurement of equip-
ment and materials and erection. However, the procurement of equipment and
materials was carried out under ONE's supervision according to the Moroccan
Government's procedures for competitive bidding.
3.13      In order to strengthen the management of the national rural electri-
fication program, the entities responsible for the program at present (CIER,
MI and ONE) need a clear delineation of their responsibilities and an improve-
ment in their staffing (Annex 3.3). In addition, a fourth entity, the,Inter-
ministerial Committee for Coordination of Electricity Programs (CICOPER) has
been created within the Ministry of Interior to assure oversight and coor-
dination of project components and reach interministerial agreement on ONE
project activities. Those participating in CICOPER meetings to be held at
least monthly would be representatives of MI, MEM, Ministry of Finance, and
ONE, plus others as needed.  The CIER would formulate the future stages of
the national rural electrification program. CIER would also ensure that the
various rural development projects of member ministries are taken into account
in defining future rural electrification projects. It would oversee and
coordinate the flow of financial resources from the national budget for the
program replacing the current practice of dividing the rural electrification
budget among the member ministries. The Government has agreed to channel all
future financial resources earmarked for rural electrification through MI and
MEM (para 4.05).
3.14      A Central Bureau of rural electrification (BCER) has been created
in the Division of Infrastructural Planning in MI.  The BCER is responsible
for the execution of the CIER's decisions and policy recommendations.
Serving as a Secretariate to the CIER, the BCER would compile all data on the
social and economic aspects of the communes required for the formulation of
future rural electrification projects. An information flow model that would
be developed by the Project consultants would be used for storing and
analyzing the data (para 3.17). The data would be stored in ONE's computer
for future use. Accordingly, the bureau would have to be adequately staffed
and the staff trained by the consultants in the use of the model as agreed
in their terms of reference. The BCER would also maintain a record of the
value of each segment of the Project facilities transferred to the ownership
of the communes (para 3.22) in order for the Government to assess the total
value of the resources transferred from its budget to the assets of each of
the rural communes. The BCER has been staffed wit'n four professionals with
capabilities in statistics, accounting and computer science.



- 17 -
3.15      ONE would be the Project executing agency and would be responsible
for all aspects relating to the implementation and supervision of the Project
(para 3.17). ONE has created within its distribution department a Project
Unit (PU) with a manager that reports to the director of the distribution
department. Further to its technical assignments, the PU would be expected
to develop with the help of consultants programs for work scheduling, criti-
cal path planning and inventory and cost control for use in implementing
future rural electrification projects. While executing the Project, and in
collaboration with the BCER, the PU would be also expected to update and com-
plete adequate information on the locations of villages centers and surround-
ing douars relative to existing or new sub-transmission lines. This informa-
tion would be stored in ONE's data processing system for retrieval when pre-
paring feasibility studies for next phases of rural electrification program.
Guidelines for the data required are outlined in Annex 3.6.
Lending Arrangements
3.16      Further to the Loan Agreement between the Government and the Bank
and the Project Agreement between the Bank and ONE, an agreement would be
signed between ONE and the Government represented by MI, MEM and the Ministry
of Finance. In addition to the usual covenants, the Loan Agreement would:
(i) summarize the responsibilities of the different organizations involved;
and (ii) make the Ministry of Finance responsible for providing ONE with
funds for the Project implementation and servicing of the debt (para 4.10).
The Project Agreement would reflect the usual obligation of the executing
agency (ONE) regarding Project execution (paras 3.15 and 4.09), operation
and maintenance (paras 3.22 and 4.08), and monitoring (para 3.24). The draft
agreement between ONE and the Government was reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. It concludes provisions for: (i) project financing; (ii)
delineation of responsibilities for Project implementation and ownership;-
and (iii) obligations for operation and maintenance of the Project facilities.
Engineering and Construction
3.17      The Project unit at ONE assisted by local engineering firms has
already started detailed Project design including topographic survey and
preparation of requests for construction permits. The PU has also started
preparation of detailed specifications of equipment and materials and civil
works required for drafting bidding documents. The unit would afterwards
carry out the procurement of equipment and materials for the Project and
supervise erection works awarded to contractors. The contractors would be
also responsible for connecting consumers during the first year of electricity
service (about 30% of the total potential customers). However, because of
ONE's limited experience in implementing large rural distribution schemes and
managing the extensive procurement program associated with it, ONE would
require the assistance of engineering consultants. Consultants would assist
ONE in reviewing the Project design and equipment specifications introducing
cost effectiveness where possible. The consultants would also review bidding
documents, evaluate bids of contractors for equipment and installation works,
and provide work supervision. The consultants would also develop detailed



- 18 -
construction schedules, critical path plans, and cost and inventory-control
models to assist ONE in improving its Project implementation capabilities.
Consulting services are being provided by a French firm (INTER-G) with exper-
ience in planning similar projects in other countries. The terms of reference
for INTER-G were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Retroactive
financing up to US$250,000 for their services is recommended under the Project
for services occurring after January 1, 1979.
Procurement
3.18      Contracts for procurement of equipment and materials, and construc-
tion contracts to be financed by the proposed loan would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers. Minor
quantities of standard distribution equipment and materials would be procured
under "international shopping" after inviting quotations from at least three
manufacturers. The aggregate amount of contracts awarded under international
shopping would not exceed US$700,000 equivalent. Items would be grouped to
the extent to form sizeable bid packages to permit bulk procurement. Deli-
veries would be made in accordance with the schedule of implementation (see
para 3.19) and, if necessary, material would be stored at ONE's warehouses.
Since a relatively small percentage of the equipment required for the Project
is manufactured locally, Moroccan participation in the supply of equipment
and materials is expected to be modest and limited to distribution trans-
formers. The contracts for these locally manufactured transformers is not
expected to exceed US$2 million (5% of the proposed loan). The construction
contracts are expected to be small because of the geographical dispersion of
the areas affected by the Project and the labour intensive nature of the
installation works which would tend to attract small local contractors. It
is unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested in bidding for these
contracts, nevertheless, the contracts would be grouped by region to facilitate
international competitive bidding in case some foreign firms or large local
contractors are interested in being involved.
Schedule of Implementation and Disbursements
3.19      The Project would take approximately five years to implement which
includes one year for preparation and bidding (1979) and four years (1980-
1982) for the installation of the facilities. An estimated implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 3.4. Completed portions of the Project would be
progressively energized.
3.20      Funds from the proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of the
c.i;f. cost of imported equipment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment and materials procured in Morocco after
international competitive bidding, 100% of the cost of foreign consultants,
and 35% of total cost of contracts for installation and erection, which
represent the estimated foreign exchange content, and for which payments



- 19 -
would be made against progress certified by ONE. The estimated disbursements
from the proposed loan are shown in Annex 3.5. The proposed closing date
would be June 30, 1984, six months after the estimated completion of the
Project, to allow for payment of retention moneys.
Environmental Impact and Risks
3.21      The work consists of the extension of distribution lines in rural
areas without any significant environmental impact of an adverse nature. With
assistance in Project management being provided by consultants, no special
risks are foreseen in the implementation of the Project. This arrangement is
being used successfully in the first power project, Loan 936-MOR, and in Sidi
Cheho-Al Massira Project, Loan 1299-MOR.
Operation and Maintenance
3.22      The Government, has indicated that the segments of Project facilities
constituting the low-tension rural distribution network would be owned by the
communes. However, MI, on behalf of the communes, would sign an agreement
(para 3.16) entrusting ONE with the responsibility for operating and main-
taining these facilities (para 4.07) including the connections of consumers
requiring supply after the first year. This would involve extension of an
existing agreement between ONE and MI for the operation and maintenance of
the existing rural distribution system so as to include the Project facilities
transferred to the ownership of the communes. ONE, through its regional
offices, would also operate and maintain the part of the Project facilities
(subtransmission segment) which the Government would transfer to its owner-
ship. The upgrading and reinforcement of the sub-transmission system would
be included in ONE's development program, while reinforcement and expansion
of the low-voltage system (segment of Project facilities transferred to the
communes) would be financed from the accumulated funds retained by ONE from
the operation of the rural system (para 4.11).
Housewiring
3.23      Housewiring for the Project beneficiaries would be undertaken by
small private electric servicing firms as was the case with villages that were
electrified in the past. The average cost of housewiring and lighting is
estimated at DH 900 (US$225) per dwelling based on ONE's records for the
villages electrified in the past and data collected during appraisal.
The average connection cost to the customer is around DH 1,200 (US$300)
consisting of a connection fee of about DH 300 and as mentioned above, a
housewiring cost of DH 900. The connection fee covers the supply and installa-
tion of the service drop and entrance equipment. It is paid by the consumer
to ONE either as a lump sum based on the actual cost or as a surcharge of 2%
on the monthly electricity bill for a duration of 15 years. The possibilities
for potential consumers to afford the minimum equipment required has been
taken into account in estimating the initial connection rate as well as the
growth rate for the load forecast (para 5.01). In addition, it is estimated
that once electricity is made available 23% of consumers would be able to



- 20 -
afford up to about DR 2,400 (US$600) for household equipment such as tele-
visions, refrigators, etc. which would be supplied by local dealers. As the
load builds up, more consumers would be in a position to afford such an
outlay.
Monitoring and Statistical Data
3.24      The principal weakness of the ongoing rural electrification program
is the lack of both adequate socio-economic data and detailed technical data
on the rural distribution network. The Project would correct this' shortcoming
by having the Project Consultants design an information flow model for use in
formulating future rural electrification Projects. The data would be stored
in ONE's computer but would be accessible to any of the Ministries involved.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to collect data required for the
information flow model and to monitor the performance of the national rural
electrification program along lines shown in Annex 3.6.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Performance
4.01      ONE has been the executing agency for the the rural electrification
program financed from the budgetary allocations of the ministries involved
in rural development; e.g. Agriculture, Housing, Interior, etc. The alloca-
tions were made from the Government's sources of revenue including a 4.5%
tax for rural electrification levied on ONE's sales to its customers. The
Project beneficiaries would also pay the rural electrification tax.
4.02      The main financial covenants, which apply to ONE in connection
with Loan 1299-MOR are a cash contribution covenant and a debt limitation
covenant. The cash contribution covenant requires ONE to finance a portion
(18% for 1978 and 1979 and 20% thereafter) of its average capital require-
ments from average net internal sources. Preliminary estimates indicate
that ONE has met this requirement in 1978 and would meet it in 1979 without
further tariff action, other than the 22% increases effective January 1,
1979. The debt limitation covenant is the usual one requiring the Bank's
prior approval of new borrowing in the absence of a 1.5 coverage of maximum
future debt service by current revenues. ONE's compliance with this naturally
depends on the circumstances ruling at the time new long term debt is incurred.
In 1977, the debt service coverage ratio on an annual basis was 2.5, which
indicates a healthy position.
Financing Plan
4.03      According to the agreement between the Government and ONE governing
ONE's execution of the rural electrification program and its operation of
the rural distribution network, ONE need not use its own financial resources
for implementing the investment program, nor incur any deficit in operating



- 21 -
the rural network (para 4.07). This agreement would be extended to the
proposed Project and, consequently, ONE would not be involved in the financial
aspects of the Project. The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Govern-
ment and the Project would be financed from the following sources:
US$ Million        DH Million
I. Proposed Bank Loan
a. Base cost of imported equipment,
construction and engineering          29.5             118.2
b.  Physical contingencies                    3.0              12.0
c.  Price contingencies                       9.5              37.8
Total Bank Loan                               42.0               168.0
II. Moroccan Government Financing
a. Base cost of local equipment,
construction and engineering          14.6              58.6
b.  Taxes and duties                         11.6              46.2
c.  Physical contingencies                    1.8               7.0
d.  Price contingencies                     12.8               51.3
Total Moroccan Government
Contribution                               40.8                163.1
III. Customer Contribution for
Connections                                        2.2                 8.9
Total Project Costs                       US$85.0            DH 340.0
4.04      The Bank loan to the Government of Morocco would finance the entire
foreign cost of the Project which includes the cost of imported equipment and
material (including physical and price contingencies), consulting services and
reimbursement of the amount withdrawn under the Project Preparation Facility.
Apart from customers' contributions for connections, the Government would
finance the local cost of equipment, material and installation, including
price and physical contingencies, the local cost of engineering services and
administration, and any local and foreign cost overruns.
4.05      In the past, Government financing for rural electrification was
channelled through the ministries involved in rural development; e.g. Interior,
Agriculture, Housing, etc. Consequently, all these ministries which con-
trolled their own allocations had in turn some control over CIER's yearly
program, making unified control over the program difficult. In order to
assure full financing for the Project and efficient Project implementation,
the Government has agreed (a) to finance the entire local costs of the Project,
not covered by customer contributions, from budgetary allocations to be made
available in accordance with the Project requirements and (b) to channel the



- 22 -
allocations directly through MI and MEM, an arrangement which is acceptable to
the Bank (see para 3.13). The Government also agreed to provide, or cause to
be provided on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, funds to cover any
cost overruns which might arise in respect of either foreign or local expendi-
tures.
4.06      In executing the two previous power Projects financed by the Bank,
ONE has experienced delays in obtaining reimbursement from Government for
disbursements which ONE has made and which are eligible for reimbursement from
the Bank under the Loans. It has also, as a result, delayed payments to
suppliers. A proposal that the Government authorize ONE to make loan with-
drawal applications directly from the Bank was not acceptable to the Govern-
ment because of its policy of controlling foreign currency through the "office
des changes." Therefore, in order to ensure that ONE is provided with adequate
funds at all times during Project implementation, the Government and ONE have
agreed to the following special procedure for the transfer of Government funds
to ONE. Before the beginning of each fiscal year, ONE would prepare a budget
of its requirements for the Project, and submit it to the Government for
approval. It would then be included in the national budget and would be paid
to ONE in one lump sum as soon as the necessary legislative approval has been
received. ONE would thus receive an advance of funds, out of which it would
make all disbursements for the capital costs of the Project without being
required to advance its own funds for this purpose. The Government would,
in due course, obtain reimbursement from the Bank for items to be financed
out of the Bank loan. Assurances were also obtained from the Government on
a system for local currency payments ensuring that sufficient funds would be
available to ONE and that contractors and suppliers are paid promptly.
Ownership and Operation and Maintenance of Project Facilities
4.07      According to the law governing the relationship between rural
communes and the Government, all infrastructural facilities (roads, water
facilities, power distribution lines, etc.) providing service to a commune and
located within its perimeter are the property of that commune. The ownership
of facilities providing service to more than a single commune is shared
between the communes involved in proportion to the service each receives.
All the communes' infrastructural facilities are entrusted to enterprises for
operation and maintenance according to an agreement with MI which ensures
that those enterprises do not incur any loss in the operation and maintenance
of the facilities. Accordingly, the operation and maintenance of the exist-
ing rural distribution network is governed by an agreement between ONE and
MI. Although some components of the proposed Project would not constitute a
part of the rural distribution network serving the communes, these components
are needed to reinforce ONE's distribution capabilities to supply the center
of communes to be electrified. Consequently, after completion of the various
Project components, facilities down to and including the 22-kV level would be
transferred to ONE and the low voltage facilities would be transferred to the
communes. ONE, in turn, would incorporate the assets in its accounts as
assets contributed by the Government as part of its equity contribution,



- 23 -
operating and depreciating them as part of its system. The expansion and
reinforcement of Project components received by ONE would be included in
its system development program and financed from ONE's own resources.
4.08      The equipment owned by the communes would be entrusted to ONE for
operation and maintenance. The Government has provided the Bank w;ith draft
agreements between the Ministry of Interior and ONE, providing for (i) the
operation and maintenance of the Project facilities; (ii) arrangements
to provide ONE with funds to caver any deficit which might accrue on account
of its operation of the rural network, including the Project facilities; and
(iii) the retention by ONE for future rural electrification projects, of any
cash operating surplus.
Financial Forecasts
4.09      ONE would, under its agreements with MI, undertake all maintenance
and operation of the project system, and would include billing, collection and
the preparation (as at present) of income and expenditure accounts for each
individual sub-division. These accounts would be credited with the revenue
from the sales of electricity to consumers at ONE's current tariffs for rural
consumption, meter rents and any other revenues relative to the Project
system. The accounts would be debited with ONE's cost of delivering power to
the 22-kV substation level, plus a charge of 10%, which would allow a small
profit to ONE. The price "charged" would cover all costs of generation,
transmission, related losses and depreciation to this point, including depre-
ciation on the Project assets which would pass to ONE. ONE would also debit
to these accounts the cost of operating and maintaining the project distribu-
tion network, but excluding depreciation on the Project components owned by
the communes. From these individual accounts for each sub-division, it would
be possible to prepare an annual income and expenditure account for the whole
Project. Annex 4.1 shows such forecast accounts for the years 1980-82. These
assume that in the event of ONE's costs increasing, tariffs would be increased
by at least an equivalent amount in order to retain the net revenue at its
forecast level. The forecasts show that cash revenues should be sufficient
to cover cash expenses in 1980, increasing annually as more consumers are
added to the system and sales per consumer increase. However, should, for any
reason, there be a cash deficit in operating the Project system as a whole,
the Government has agreed to bear such a difference itself out of the national
budget and to pay the amount of such deficit to ONE.
4.10      The issue of capital recovery can be considered first in respect
of the Project components owned by ONE and secondly for the Project components
owned by the communes. The components owned by ONE will be depreciated
at the applicable rates and included as part of the costs when arriving at
the price at which electricity is "sold" to the rural system. The Project
components owned by the communes will be depreciated as shown in Annex 4.1.
From this it will be seen that the net cash surplus will not be sufficient
to fully cover depreciation charges until 1989--six years after the Project
has been completed. If customers' contributions were to be deducted from the
asset cost, complete capital recovery on an annual basis would be achieved
marginally earlier.



- 24 -
4.11      The Government has proposed that ONE retain the difference between
revenues and cash operating expenses for use in future rural electrification
projects and/or expansion of the facilities to be installed under the proposed
Bank Project (para 3.13). Moreover, the Government has confirmed that neither
ONE nor any other agency would be required to service the Bank loan, the debt
service of which would be met out of the national budget.
4.12      These financial arrangements are satisfactory because (i) they would
not adversely affect ONE; and (ii) in a reasonable period of time--about seven
years--annual capital costs would be fully covered by revenues, although
since the estimated Project life is longer than the period of the proposed
loan, debt service will not be fully covered by internal cash generation for
some considerable time. In order to ensure the continued financial viability
of ONE, it was agreed during negotiations that the existing cash contribution
and debt service limitation covenants would be repeated in the proposed
loan. It was also be agreed that ONE will prepare separate operating accounts
for the Project which will be submitted to the Bank, together with a report
thereon, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within seven
months of the end of ONE's financial year.  It was not considered that further
financial covenants are necesary since the provision of electricity to the
rural areas of Morocco is considered to be a social service, and, in fact, the
forecasts indicate that, in the long term, costs will be fully recovered,
although the proceeds will be used for future rural electrification.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Load Forecast
5.01      The load forecast for the Project is based on electricity consump-
tion data retained at ONE's billing department, the socio-economic data on
4,000 douars collected by the Government for rural development planning and
a sample of 36 villages selected to serve as a monitor for the accuracy of
the data collected. The forecast is classified under four general end uses
of electricity; namely, public lighting, government administration, domestic
uses, and commercial including irrigation pumping (Annex 5.1).
5.02      The government administration category includes the demand for elec-
tricity by the central and local governments, existing and planned hospitals,
schools and community service centers. The demand for domestic uses covers
lighting, ironing, TV operation and cooking. The forecast of electricity use
for cooking purposes takes into account that electricity operated burners
would be utilized to support, but not replace the charcoal currently being
used for the preparation of traditional meals.
5.03      The commercial category includes small shops, commercial village
markets, grain mills, drying facilities for vegetable and fruit and small
scale irrigation pumping. The irrigation pumping load growth is based on
the assumption that the existing diesel driven irrigation pumps would be



- 25 -
adapted to operate on electrically driven motors within a period of 6 years.
However, in view of the latest increase in the price of petroleum products
(January 1979) and the concurrent removal of subsidy for their consumption,
the irrigation pumping demand for electricity would probably develop faster
than presented in the forecast.
5.04      Three parameters (averages) were estimated from the data and used
to derive the load forecast for each of the four categories. These are: (a)
the percentage of the potential customers that would be connected to the grid
during the first year of electrification; (b) the average initial level of
consumption during the first year; and (c) the rate of growth consumption over
the expected life of the Project. Because of the differences in the pattern
of electricity consumption among the economic regions of Morocco, separate
estimates was derived for the four regions where the Project facilities would
be located; namely, the central region, the North-western and North Central
regions and the Southern region. A detailed summary of these estimates are
presented in Annex 5.2.
5.05      For the Project as a whole, the average percentage of the potential
customers that would be connected during the first year of service is about
30% (ranging from 15% for the central region to 50% for the southern region).
The average yearly consumption per inhabitant in the first year of service is
estimated to be around 61 kWh/capita or 366 kWh/customer (ranging from 69
kWh/capita for the central region to 45 kWh/capita for the southern region).
The average rate of growth of demand for electricity over the expected life of
the Project is estimated to .be approximately 17% which is within the accept-
able range for the growth of demand in the rural areas of countries like Iran,
India, Egypt and Syria.
B. Least Cost Investment
5.06      The Project is the first phase of the 15-year rural electrification
program and would constitute the least cost investment only if the program
itself is least cost. Assessment of the least cost alternative for formulat-
ing a rural electrification program, involves the comparison of the cost of
connecting each village to the national grid (centrally supplied) with the
cost of installing a local generator (isolated system). However, 900 communes
had to be considered, in formulating Morocco's program and a separate com-
parison for each commune would have been impractical. Instead, a representa-
tive village of 1,000 inhabitants was used to determine the distance (from
the grid) at which the cost of the two alternatives (centrally supplied and
isolated system) would break-even. For a village of 1,000 inhabitants, the
break-even distance is about 31 km resulting in an average break-even distance
per inhabitant of .031 km/inhabitant. For each of the communes considered, if
the break-even distance/inhabitant is greater than .031 km, electrification by
installing an isolated system would be the least cost alternative, otherwise,
the commune would be connected to the central grid.



- 26 -
5.07      The Project constitutes a least cost investment for electrifying
the 220 village centers because:
(a) Igmerm, the most remotely located commune in the Project
(17 km from the grid and a population of 1,253), has a
break-even distance/inhabitant of .014 km;
(b)  Culad Jeema, the smallest commune in the Project (5 km
from the grid and 246 inhabitants), has a break-even
distance/inhabitant of .020 km; and
(c)  Aitouadrim, the most remote and sparsely populated
commune (12.5 km and a population of 425), as break-even
distance/inhabitant of .029 km.
C. The Return on Investment
5.08      The return on the Project is the discount rate which equates the
present worth of the streams of measurable costs and benefits associated with
the Project and defined over its expected life. The cost streams are: (a)
the capital cost of the Project which includes physical contingencies but is
net of taxes, custom duties and price contingencies; (b) the marginal cost of
power delivered to the rural distribution network based on the ONE 1978-1983
system development program; and (c) the cost of operating and maintaining the
Project facilities assumed to be equal to 2% of capital cost of the Project.
The benefit streams are: (a) the receipt from sale of electricity based on
an average revenue of DH 0.628/kWh which is assumed to be a proxy for the
consumers' willingness to pay; and (b) the revenues from meter rentals and
customer connection charges. All costs and benefits are expressed in 1978
prices.
5.09      Based on the benefits listed above, the estimated return on the
investment is 6%. This, however, understates the return on the Project
because there were strong indications that the tariff for sales of electricity
to the rural consumers connected to the central grid understates the willing-
ness to pay of those consumers who are currently without access electricity
or are supplied from isolated systems.  The following facts would support the
statement: (i) the rural electricity consumers supplied from the 187 small
isolated systems pay at present DH 1.15/kWh; (ii) the rural population without
access to electricity spend on alternative energy a proportion of their income
that if divided by the kWh of electricity needed to provide similar service,
their estimated willingness to pay for that service would be at least DH
0.94/kWh; and (iii) the growth of demand for electricity by the rural con-
sumers of the isolated systems continues to grow at a rate identical to the
growth of demand of similar consumers supplied from the main grid, despite the
fact that the tariff for the isolated system is substantially (69%) higher
than the tariff for the interconnected system. These facts indicate that the
rural population without access to electricity would be willing to pay for
their current and future demand for electricity a tariff that is at least
equal to DH 0.94/kWh. The demand would materialize whether electricity is
supplied by isolated systems or the central grid. Therefore, if the willing-
ness to pay of the Project beneficiaries is taken to be DH 0.94/kWh,instead of
the tariff for supply from the central grid, the return on the Project would
be at least 8%.



- 27 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement has been obtained and understanding reached on the follow-
ing points:
(a)  Definition of the roles of ONE, MI, CIER, CICOPER, and the
communes in Project implementation and rural electrification
policy and planning, including development of the next stage
of the 15-year rural electrification plan (paras 3.13, 3.14,
3.15, 3.16, 3.22, 3.24, 4.08).
(b)  Channeling of funds, including provision of local funds and
cost overruns, for rural electrification, and servicing of
Bank loan (paras 3.13, 4.05, 4.06, 4.09).
(c)  Maintenance of staff in the new rural electrification unit of
MI competent in statistics, accounting, and computer sciences
(para 3.14).
(d)  Employment by ONE of consultants for Project design, procure-
ment, implementation and management, and critical path develop-
ment (para 3.17).
(e)  Surplus of customers' electricity revenues over costs of
operating and maintaining Project facilities belonging to
the communes for use by ONE for financing network expansion
and future tranches of village electrification (para 4.11).
(f)  Procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 3.15, 3.18,
3.24, 4.06, 4.12).
(g)  Reporting requirements and monitoring and evaluation
procedures (para 3.26).
(h)  Government and ONE consultations with the Bank on energy
planning and relevant power sector policies, including
tariff revisions and investment planning for urban
distribution (paras 2,25, 2.27, 2.29, 3.16, 4.06, 4.10).
6.02      With these agreements, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of
$42 million to the Government of Morocco. ONE would be the executing agency.
Appropriate terms for the loan would be 26 years including 6 years of
grace. The loan is expected to become effective within 3 months of
loan signing. Effectiveness of the loan would be contingent upon signature of
an agreement between the Government and ONE defining ONE's role and that of
other agencies in Project implementation and planning, of future phases of
rural electrification and reflecting the principles and procedures defined in
the Loan and Project Agreements (paras 3.13, 3.16, 4.03, 4.06, 4.09).
April 25, 1979



MOROCC O
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Historic and Forecast Sales of ONE and Regies
1973-1983
(09k)
-tC--------------Eistoric.---------------              -----------------     Forecast -F-_-_______________             Gro-th Rates  (4)
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977            1978     1979      1980     1981      1982    1l93              196Pu77   1977-03
Total
CRE to Regies                                           1,333    1,407    1,535    1,694    1,834             1,980    2,140    2,310    2,495    2,695    2,910                8.7           8.o
ONE to its own Consumers                                  895       965    i         1 141    1,291           1 437    1,617    1 825    2 053    2,3n7    2 606               10.0          12.4
Total                                        2,z8 2,372                             3,125           3,         757    4,135               5,002                      9.2           9.9
Losses of Regies                                       (67)      (85) Ç,     )    '101)    (119)            (125)    (1f3)    (146)    (157)    (170)    (183)              (6.9)         (7.4)
Total ta Ultiaste Consumers                                                                   139 2,28730  3,292    3,882                   1        2     5,13339.3                      10.0
Breakdown by Consumer Category
High and Medim Voltage
(225-5.5 kV)
Railways                                                   a5        89       75        9o      100             105       118       116      122       128      134             4.6           5.0
Mining                                                    383      429       418       407      464             501       54i       585      631       682      736             6.4           8.0
Cement                                                    124       145      162       180      210             232       273       326      379       438      517            11.3          16.2
Other Industry, Camerce, Agricu1ture & Cther              918      942    1 063    1,236    1,351             1 498    1,659    1 834    2 032    2 250    2 402               11.0          10.7
Subtotel (1)                                 1,510    1,705               1,913    2,125            9Tw    2,591    27          3, e      39                                      10 .6
Loc Voltage ( 220 V; 380 v)
Reside-tial, Cqmmercial                                   544       570      617       695      741             809       883       963    1,052    1,149    1,257              9.1           9.2
Public Lighting                                            51        55       60        65       75              80        85       90       9g        102      109             7.8           6.4
Agriculture Pucmpiog anrd ',81s                            56        57       58        61        65              67       71        75       79        83       88              5.0          5.1
Suttotal (2)                                 -61    -62           735       821          801 956    1039    1128    '227 1                 ,334    377               _7
Total (1) & (2)                         11           7         3    27                        3,292                                           5,333             9.3          LO0
Breakdown for ONE
High and Medius Voltage
(225-5.5 kV)
Transportation                                             85        89       75        90      100              105      il,       116      122       128      134             4.6            5.0
Mining                                                    383      429       418       407      464             501       541       585      631       682      736             6.4           8.0
Ce=.ent                                                    19        26       28        43        73             90       125       172      219       271      344            26.2          29.5
Other Industry, Commerce, Agriculture & Other             284      283       354       425      457             521       594       677      772       880    1,003            13.1          14.0
Regies                                                  1 333    1 407    1,535    1.694    15834             1,980    2,140    2,310    2 495    2 695    2,910                 8.7          8.0
Subtotel (1)                                          2         2,410   929 59                      3,197    3,510    3,860 e    82#9     t        5,127         9 . 1              9B
Lc-, Voltage (220 '1 380
Reaide.tial, Co=ercial                                     91      103       115       13i      152             173       196      221       251       286      322            13.7          13.3
Public Lighting                                            14       15        16        17       19              20        22        23       25        27       29             8.6           7.0
Agricultural Pumping sud Mills                             19       20        20        22       26              27        29        31       33        35        38             6.7          7.0
9ubtotal (2)                                   124       138      151       176      191              220     =2         275      3c         4     ___               11.9          12.0
Total '1) & (2)                         2        22 372   =25       2         _5_1            3l7           7        9                                            .2          9.9
Breakdoln for Pegies
Medium Voltage
(6,3-5.5 kV)
Cement                                                    105      119       134       `37      137             142       148       154      160       167      173              7.6          4.o
Other Industry, Coe,rce, Agriculture & Other              634      659       709       811      894             977    1,065    1,157    1,260    1,370    1 489                10.0          9.0
Sultutal (1!                                   739       77       777       D79    1,031           1,119    1,213    1,311    w172        1,537
L-w Voltage
Reidential, Coeercial                                    453      467       502       558      589             636       687       742      801       865      935              8.2           8.0
Public Lighting                                            37       40        44        48       56              60        63       67        71        75       80              7.6           6.o
Agricultural Psnping and Hlilis                            37       37        38        39       39              40        42        44       46        48       50              3.8           4.o
Subtotal (2)                                   527     357      -5'3B     ' 5 *7                     736       7932      553     797    -977    1,05                  7.9           7.7
Total 1l) & (2)                         1         ,322    1,627    1,593        7             1855    2,005    214    233           255        ,727 
April 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATIGII PROJECT
Historie and Forezast Balances of Energy and Capacities
(<OrE's Interconnected Systeml
_ _ ___-_-___-_-_-_-_-_-_---     --_-----  Historic --------------------------------------             ------------------- -Forecast ---------------------
1968     1969      1970      1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977             1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
Inter-onnected Syste n
Sales (<',h) to Ultimate Consumers
.TF:                                                        552       682       643       691      771       895       i65    1,026    1,141    1,291             1,437    1,617    1,825    2,053    2,307    2,606
Iegies                                                      796       806       963         1,036   i       ,2<6    :,322    1,427    1 593    1,715              1,855    2 005    2,164    2,338    2,525    2,727
Total (1'                                 i,348    1,48       i         1,727    1,907    2,161    2,287    2,453                 3,              3,292    3          3,9      4,391    4,3        5,333
Iosses
02IF ' HT, lIT, LIj                                         130       155       155       174      217       214      235       257       252       303             322       354      390       428       471       520
Regies                                                       65        57        73        69       77        67        85      108      1'01       119             125       135       146      157       170       183
<frasion Pequirements (ONE)                                  72        64        78        82      115       161       173      216       252       242             281       309       340      374       412       454
Total (2)                                   267       2         7         325      U                    93 540            605       U7              7                   T        959    1,053    1,157
'eneration and Purchases
Hydro                                                     1,077    1,389    1,316    1,520    1,596    1,192    1,337    1,016            998    1,365            i,450    1,540    1,805    1,805    1,805    1,805
Thermal                                                     526       368       592       524      715    1,408    1,438    2,015    2,331    2,265               2,570    2,880    3,060    3,545    4,080    4,714
Purchases                                                    12         7         4         8        5         3         5         3       10        4o               -         -         _         _        _         _
rotrsl - ' .) | (2;                       1,615    176        1,912    2,052    2,316    2,603    2,780    3,034    3,339    3,670                4,020    4,420    4,865    535°    5,885    6,519
sxbaimssm Demand (141,)                                     323       349       384       418      470       498       550      600       629       701             765       841       910    1,001    1,101    1,215
load Factor (i) -"                                           57        58        57        56       56        60        58       58        61        60              60        60        61       61        61        61
Installed Capacities (MW)
Rvdro                                                       355       362       362       362      362       372       396      396       396       396             436       470       596      596       596       596
Sceam                                                       117       117       117       226      257       256       256      315       315       315             390       500       615      765    1,065    1,215
Combustion                                                   16        16        16        16       16        16        36        55       75       135             135       135       135      135       135       135
Diesel                                                       33        3-        34        34       34        34        34       34        34        30               30       10         -         -        -         -
521      52T       529       63S       F9       680       724       800                77               99'    1,155    1,346    1,96    1,798    1 94
1,erall POant Fact5r ( 21                                    35        38        41       36        39        43       44        43        46        48              4c        44        42       41        37        38
Capacity Margîr.
MM 4                                                        198       179       145       221      199       181       173      200       191       175             226       314       436      495       695       731
38       34        27        35        30       27        24        25       23        20               23       27        32        33        38       38
C;eneration (CWh)      x0
i/ ioad Factor = iaximum Demand  MSI s 8.76
2/ Plant Factor      s leneration (01h' x             1. 0
3/ Capacity Margin (M'l = Installed Capacity (Mw) - Maximum Demand (Mi)
Capac ity Margin  W'MM     0
4/ Canacity Margin (d) = InstàaIled Capacnit«yT)) x l00
Arril 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Location and Size
Population    ------------------Equipment-----------------
Region            Province          Centers       Served         Lines          Transformers        Low Voltage
In 1995      22-kV (km)      Capacity (kVA)       Lines (km)
Central Northwest      Khemisset            32          54,450           174              6,650             150
Kenitra             31          42,700            98              5,280             120
Chaouen              7           6,640            28                870               20
70        103,790            300             12,800             290
North                  Nador, Oujda,        15           7,900            80              2,500               25                    o
Figuig, Taza
Al Hoceima,
Fes
Center                 Settat               42          49,500           257              6,370             140
Khouribga            3           5,960            10                 725              20
Beni Mellal &
Er-Rachidia         55         141,900           203             16,690              390
100        197,360            470             23,785             550
South                  Agadir               14          17,530           140              2,150               50
Tiznit              10           9,430           140               1,060              25
Tan Tan              3           9,250            20               1,080              25
Ouarzazate           8          11,990           100               1,510              30
35         48,200            400              5,800             130
TOTAL          220         357,250         1,250             44,885              995
SOURCE:  Report "Etude d'Electrification Rurale" by Mr. L. Maistre, MI and ONE.
April 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Development of Project Cost Estimates
Base Cost
Unit Prices      Estimated            Appraisal Base Cost
(1978)          Project                   DH 1000
DH           Quantities      Local      Foreign      Total
1. Overhead, 3-phase, 22-kV, per km
- 148.0 mm2 AC                                      55,000              300         6,825       13,855      20,680
-  93.3 mm2 AC                                      40,000              300         4,300        7,700      12,000
-  43.1 mm2 AC                                      32,000              650         9,240       14,280      23,520
Subtotal                                        1,250        20,365       35,835      56,200
2. Distribution Transformers, 22,000-380/220-V
3-Phase, per unit rated
-  50 kVA                                           11,050               22            48          195         243
- 100 kVA                                           14,100              122           343        1,377       1,720
- 160 kVA                                           19,400               96           372        1,491       1,863
- 250 kVA                                           25,400               62           337        1,237       1,574
Subtotal                                          302         1,100        4,300       5,400
3.  Overhead, 4-wire, 3-phase, 380/220-V
Secondarv, per km _/                                95,880              995        32,075       62,900      94,975
4.  Public lighting                                         535          19,000         2,170        9,150      11,320
TOTAL                                                        55,710      112,185    167,895
(D M
1/  Includes service drops, watthour meters, and service entrance equipment.
SOURCE:  Report "Etude d'Electrification Rurale" by Mr. L. Maistre, July 1978, ONE and mission estimates.                          1
April 1979



- 32 -                                                         ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 3
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Development of Project Costs ('000 DH)
Annual Breakdown
%       1979       1980         1981        1982        1983          1979-1983
22-kV Distribution Lines         LC            36                  4,155       5,130        5,620       5,460          20,365
FC            64                  7,335       9,000      10,000       9,500           35,835
T            100                 11,490      14,130      15,620      14,960           56,200
Distribution Transformers        LC             20                    225         275         300         300            1,100
FC            80                    885       1,075       1,200       1,140            4,300
T            100                  1,110       1,350       1,500       1,440            5,400
380/220-V Distribution           LC            34                  6,500       8,175        8,800       8,600          32,075
System and Related             FC            66                 12, 000     15,700      17,600      17 600           62,900
Equipment                      T            100                 18,500      23,875      26,400      2 ,200           94,975
Public Lighting                  LC            17                    445          545         600         580           2,170
FC            83                  1,865       2,300       2,560       2,425            9 150
T            100                  2,310       2,845       3,160       3,005           11,320
Engineering and                  LC            64      3,200       1,575       1,825        2,180       2,060          10,840
Administration                 FC            36      2,200       1,135       1,025         925          735           6,020
T            100      5,400       2,710       2,850       3,105       2,795           16,860
TOTAL BASE_COST                  LC            36      3,200      12,900      15,950      17,500       17,000          66,550
FC            64      2,200      23,220      29,100      32,285      31,400          118,205
T            100      5,400      36,120      45,050      49,785      48,400          184,755
Physical Contingencies           LC            36        320       1,300       1,600       1,750        1,700           6,670
(10%)                         FC             64        220       2,300       2,900       3,315       3,200          11,935
T            100        540       3,600       4,500       5,065       4,930           18,605
Import Duties and Taxes          LC            -         570      10,800      13,450      14,750.    14,30C            53,870
TOTAL UNESCALATED _OST           LC            49      4,090      25,000      31,000      34,000      33,000          127,090
FC            51      2,420      25,520      32,000      35,600      34,600          130,140
T            100      6,510      50,520      63,000      69,600      67,600          257,230
Price Escalation                 LC            -         410       5,000       9,000      13,500      17,000           44,910
(Escalation Factor)             (.10)       (.20)      (.29)        (.40)       (.51)
FC            -         180       4,480       7,400      11,400      14,400           37,860
(Escalation Factor)           (.075)        (.15)      (.23)        (.32)       (.41)
TOTAL ESCALATED COST             LC            51      4,500      30,000      40,000      47,500      50,000         172,000
FC            49      2,600      30,000      39,400      47,000      49,000         168,000
100
T            100      7,100      60,000      79,400      94,500      99,000         340,000
SOURCE: ONE and Mission estimates.
April 1979



- 33 -                                            ANNEX 3.2
MOROCCO                                             Page 3 of 3
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF PROJECT COSTS
FUNDS ALLOCATION
Allocations
Foreign       Local                                        Amiount of the    % of Expenditure
Category               Cost          Cost    Subtotal  Taxes  Total               Loan Allocated    To Be Financed
------(Millions DH)--------------                          (Millions US$)
1. 22-kV Networks
A. Materials and            21.4            -        21.4      7.2    28.6                   5.4        100% CIF or ex-
Equipment                                                                                          factory price.
B. Civil Works and          14.4 (35%)  20.4         34.8      6.4    41.2 (100%)            3.6        35%
Erection
Subtotal          35.8         20.4       56.2    13.6    69.8                     9.0
2.  Transformers                  4.3           1.1        5.4      1.0      6.4                   1.0        100% CIF or ex-
factory price.
3. Low Voltage Networks
and Public Lighting
A. Materials and            50.0           -         50.0    15.6    65.6                   12.5        100% CIF or ex-
Equipment                                                                                          factory price.
B. Civil Works and          22.1 (35%)  34.3         56.4      9.3    65.7 (100%)            5.5        35%
Erection
Subtotal          72.1         34.3      106.4    24.9   131.3                    18.0
4. Engineering and
Administration
A. Project Preparation    0.4               -         0.4       -       0.4                  0.09       Project Preparation
Facilities.
B. Consultants'              2.4                      2.4              2.4                   0.60       100% expenditures of
Services                                                                                          consultants.
C. Local Engineering         3.2         10,8       14.0      2,6    16.6                    0.81       100% c.i.f. or ex-
factory price.
Subtotal           6,0         10.8       16,8      2.6    19.4                   1.5
5.  Unallocated                  49.8          51.6      101.4    11.7   113.1                   12.5
TOTAL           168.0         118.2      286.2    53.8   340.0                   42.0
SOURCE: ONE and Mission estimates.
April 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Management Organization
Ministry of
- Energy & Mines
- Interior                           INTERMINISTERIAL COMMISSION
- Finance                              FOR RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
- Agriculture &                                     (CIER)
Land Reform                       Rural Electrification Policy and Programs
-- Urbanism
Planning Committee
ONE
Ministry of Irnteri'or
Division of Planning            _
& Equipment                              n stry of Finance_
BCER/CICOPER                              | Budget Allocation                      OAN AGREEME
| Ministry of Energ
CONSULTANT                                                                               _ID
Technical and                                                  M                                                                                                       1
Organization
Assistance
EXECUTING AGENCY                                            .<         
E                              ~~~~~~~~~~~Office National de l'Electricite
Department de la Distribution
PROJECT- UNIT (PU)
Responsible                                       Project Implementation
Ministry                                            Facilities O & M
COMMUNES                                                                                                                      z
World Bank - 20229
April 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Implmentation Schedule
1979              1980              1981              1982               1983
Engineering & Supervision                                           I 7                                    I         I
Recruitment of Consultants                                                       7,r
Survey                                             _
Equipment Specifications                                                     I _
Final Design                             .
Supervision                                        -                      -   - i   ]          i   i                         - .
Bidding Documents                               t         i    D   D           i        j I
lst Inv itatioDn    Due Date     1                    
Equipment                                      to Bid         Last Bid            I                 .
Constructionr
Bids Evaluation & Contract Award                                                                                     I
Award       Award Last    i                            I
Equipment                                     lst Contract     Contract                        i
Construction
1 ' Delivery                    Delivery
Supplv of Equipment                                       1stEqupment    _           Last Equipment  I
Construction                                            Mobzation              Mobîlîzation           |
Mobilization                                          lst Contract           Last Contract
22-kV Lines                                               r    I IIII . _  _                                   1
Low Voltage System                                                                                 t         
Low Voltage Syster                       Energization
_______________________ _ __  .j                              _                          ,Completed
April 1979                                                                                              VWorld Bank - 20227



- 36 -                              ANNEX 3.5
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(Assumed Loan Effective September 1, 1979)
Bank Fiscal Year                                     --------US$ Million------
and Quarter                                         Cumulative Disbursement
At the end of the Quarter
1980
1/
September 30, 197W                                               0.34
December 31, 1979                                                0.65
March 31, 1980                                                    2.00
June 30, 1980                                                    3.50
1981
September 30, 1980                                               5.50
December 31, 1980                                                8.00
March 31, 1981                                                  10.50
June 30, 1981                                                   13.00
1982
September 30, 1981                                              15.50
December 31, 1981                                               18.50
March 31, 1982                                                  21.00
June 30, 1982                                                   24.00
1983
September 30, 1982                                              27.00
December 31, 1982                                               30.00
March 31, 1983                                                  33.00
June 30, 1983                                                   36.00
1984
September 30, 1983                                              39.00
December 31, 1983                                               42.00
1/ Includes Project Preparation Facilities ($90,000) and retroactive
financing (up to $250,000 after January 1, 1979).
April 1979



37 -                      ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Monitorine the National
Rural Electrification Program
General
1.        These guidelines were prepared to serve as the basis for discussions
between ONE, MI and the Project Consultants concerning the development of
monitoring system for Morocco's rural electrification program.
2.        The system should be designed to collect the information on geo-
graphical basis using the power system configuration, i.e., data would be
gathered for each commune then aggregated by distribution substations, and
finally totalled by bulk supply point.
Load Data
3.        mhe purpose of compiling the load data is to assess load development
for differenc regions under varying eccnomic conditions. Thus as the village
centers and communes are electrified, the following data should be collected:
(a)  Initial number of consumers serviced during the first year
of service, classified according to their end uses of
electricity, e.g. residential, commercial, Government (local
and central), public lighting, industrial, and irrigation;
(b) the average consumption for each class for the first year
of service;
(c) the growth rate and changes in the pattern of consumption
by customer class, e.g. lighting, refrigeration, agro-
industries, etc.,.including the load factor for each class;
(d)  the financial profile of sales to each customer class which
would include tari'ff level and structure, taxes, connection
charges and fixed monthly cost of service and billing;
(e) socio-economic data on the communes which would encompass
population size and growth, net migration to the centers
of communes and urban areas, household income, sources of
emplovment and income, number of employed persons per family
and size of family;
(f) details on infrastructural service, e.g. existing and propcsed
roads, water supply svstems, canals, rivers, schools, health
centers, grain mills, etc.; and



-38-                          ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 2
(g)  growth of economic activities (commercial, industrial
and agricultural) that evolved after electrification.
Cost Data
4.        The purpose of compiling cost data is to facilitate future project
planning. The following is a sample of the data that would be required:
(a) Data on transformers, feeder lengths, capacities,etc.;
(b) costs of facilities by substation, area, line feeder, etc.,
giving the investment costs for specific load areas;
(c) individual village distribution costs and average connection
costs for the various consumer categories;
(d) cost of delivering power to the various areas connected to
the rural distribution network; and
(e) operating and maintenance costs prorated by village center or
commune.
April 1979



MOROCCO/MAROC
VILLAGE ELiECTRIFICATION PROJECT/PROJET D'ELECTRIFICATIOT DES VILLAGES
ProJect Incnome Accounts/Comptes des Revenus du Projet
(Tn Tbousands of Dirhams/En Milliers de Dirhams>
Year Ending December 31,     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984     1985      1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992              Fin d'Annee Au 31 Decembre
Sales in MWh                                                                                                                                                    Ventes er. MWh
Domestic                   637    1,660    2,927    4,288    5,425    É,572    7,822    9,195   10,695   12,316   14,033   15,852   17,773                     Domestique
Commercial                  234      608    1,049    1,497    1,864    2,231    2,628    3,o64    3,536    4,043    4,583    5,155    5,765                   Comercial
Administration               -        -        -         -       204      481       771    ',081    1,411    1,758    2,15;   5,571    3,067                   Administration
Public Lighting            260       589    1,OOD    1,420    1,546    1,586    1,626    12668    1,710    1,754    1,798   1,844    1,891                    Eclairage Public
TOTAL SALES                 1,131    2,857    4,976    7,205    9,039   10,870   12,847   15,008   17,352   19,871   22,565   25,425   28,496                  TOTAI, DES VENTES
Average Revenue 0/Ikfh        59.2     59.5     59.6      59.8     60.2     60.6      60.9     61.1     61.3      61.5     61.6     61.7      61.8              Revenu Moyen e/kWh
Income from Sale of                                                                                                                                            Recette des Ventes
Electricity                670    1,699    2,966    4,306    5,439    6,586    7,822    9,172   10,641   12,217   13,904   15,696   17,621                     d'Electricite
Meter Rents                    37       108      206       287      392      48'       551      576      602       630      658      688       719              Location des Compteurs
TOTAL REVENUES                707    1,807    3,172    4,593    5,831    7,067    8,373    9,748   11,243   12,847   14,562   16,384   18,340                   TOTAL DES RECETTES
CEx teoses etiiy             27        7       ,7                          ,7                                                                                 Depenses
cast of ElectricitY        267       67(    1,177    1,704    2,138    2,571    3,038    3,549    4,104    4,699    5,337    6,013   6,739                     Cout de l'Electricite
Cost of Distribution       128       323      562       814    1,021    1,228    1,452    1,696    1,961    2,245    2,550    2873   3,220                     Cout de la Distribution
TOTAL CASH EPFENSES           395       999    1,739    2,518    3,159    3,799    4,490    5,245    6,065    6,944    7,887    8,886   9,959                   TOTAL DES DEPENSES
Net Cash Income               312       808    1,433    9,075    2,672    3,268    3,883    4,503    5,178    5,903    6,675    7,498   8,381                   Revenus Nets
Depreciation                  c'30    1,272    2.678    4,231    5,741    5,741    5,741          5,741     5, ,741    5,741   5,741                           Amortissement-
NET (DEFICIT) SUYRP7IUS       2L8)    (464)  (1,245)  (2          LO56)  (3,069)  (2,473)  (1,858)  (1,238)    (563)  162   934    1,757   2,640                BENEFICE (DEFICIT) NET
Interest                    1,573    3,019    4,819    6,819    7,840    7,644    7,350    6,958    6,566    6,174    5,782    5,390   4,998                    Interet
Amortization                  _           _         _               _      2,800    5,600    5,        5600    5,600 5,0   ,0      5,600   5,600                Amortissement Financier
DEBT SER'IICE 2'            1,573    3,019    4,819    6,89    7 840   10,444   12,950   12,558   12,166   11,774   11,382   10,990  10,598                    SERVICE DE LA DETTE-/
ii repreciation only relates to Project components owned by the communes. Depreciation on Project            1,/ L'amortissement se rapporte unicuement aux composants du projet appartenant
cmponents owned by OND is included in the cosi of electricity which ONE sells.                                aux communes.  L'amortissement des composants du projet appartenant a ONE
2,' Debt service relates to the debt service relative to the assets belonging to the communes,                   est iniclus dans le cout de l'electricite vendu par ONE
Le service de la dette se rapoorlte au service de la dette relatif aux actifs
appartenant aux communes.
c r-
r   .
April 1979



_ 40 -                                 ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 2
Notes on Project Income Accounts
1.        Revenues have been assumed as follows:
Domestic                    68.3 e per kWh
Pumping                     41.2 e per kWh
Administration              68.3 e per kWh
Public Lighting             53.5 e per kWh
2.        It is estimated that ONE will sell electricity to the Project at 23.65 ¢
per kWh which includes 10% profit.
3.        Distribution costs are estimated at 11.3 e per kWh, based on ONE's
1977 costs, and increased at 10% p.a.
4.        All prices are shown in 1979 values.  It is assumed that the current
practice will be followed whereby tariffs will be increased to reflect any
increase in costs, thereby leaving the project in the same financial status.
April 1979



- 41 -                     Annex 5.1
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Load Forecast
1980-2009
in GWh
Year     Number of       Commercial            Street       Government   Domestic  Total
Connections                         Lighting                       Uses
1980       2,924            0.234             0.260              -          0.637   1.131
1981       8,562            0.608             0.589              -          1.660   2.857
1982      16,378            1.049             1.000              -          2.927   4.976
1983      22,787            1.497             1.420              -          4.288   7.205
1984      31,120            1.864             1.546            0.204        5.425   9.039
1985       38,190           2.231             1.586            0.481        6.572  10.870
1986      43,769            2.628             1.626            0.771        7.822  12.847
1987      45,743            3.064             1.668            1.081        9.195  15.008
1988      47,806            3.536             1.710            1.411       10.695  17.352
1989      49,962            4.043             1.754            1.758       12.316  19.871
1990       52,215           4.583             1.798            2.151       14.033  22.565
1991      54,570            5.155             1.844           2.574        15.852  25.425
1992      57,031            5.765             1.891            3.067       17.773  28.496
1993      59,603            6.419             1.940            3.597       19.835  31.791
1994      61,123            7.117             1.989           4.163       22.033  35.302
1995      62,682            7.864             2.004           4.764       24.380  39.012
1996      64,280            8.670             2.092           5.413       26.899  43.074
1997      65,919            9.541             2.145           6.115       29.608  47.409
1998      67,600           10.495             2.202           6.886       32.569  52.152
1999      69,324           11.544             2.256           7.739       35.826  57.365
2000      71,092           12.699             2.313           8.681       39.408  63.101
2001      72,905           13.968             2.372           9.722       43.349  69.411
2002      74,764           15.365             2.433          10.870       47.684  76.352
2003      76,670           16.902             2.495          12.138       52.453  83.988
2004      78,625           18.592             2.559          13.537       57.698  92.386
2005      80,630           20.451             2.624          15.082       63.468 101.625
2006      82,686           22.496             2.691          16.786       69.815 111.788
2007      84,795           24.746             2.759          18.665       76.796 122.966
2008      86.957           27.221             2.830          20.737       84.476 135.264
2009      89,175           29.943             2.902          23.022       92.923 148.790
April 1979



MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimates of forecasting parameters
Average
Average          conisumption
Initial        consumption/        for public
connection          capita          lighting/        ---Growth rate of demand/year ----          Commercial
rate        for first year   village center    year             year             year           demand
Region        for all uses         in kwh            in kwlh         1 - 5        6 - 10          11 - 30       as % of total
Central                15%              69                4,000           26%         14.4%            11.20%           21.5
North Western          45%              61                9,000           24%         13.6%            10.0%             21.9
North Central          15%              69                1,200           39%         18%              13.8%              7.8           P
Southern               50%              45               10,800           39%         15.8%            12.0%             12.4
April 1979



4 43 _                                                          ANIEX 5.3
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJOCT
Return on Investment
'000 DH)
A/                                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
---------------  BenefitS* ----------------------                ---------------------- - Costs ---------------------
Cost of Power Delivered
Number of 2/      Total Sales              3/  Meter       C Oonnection                                       6/      to Hural Distri-
lear     PustuLers -          in (Wh        Revenue    Rentals -   Charge Paid              Capital. tost       O & M          bation 'Network
1979            _-                                -        -              -                     5,94o0               -                   0
1980       2,9214              1.131            710       37            887                    39,720              794                 i97
1981       8,5t'2             2.857          1,794       108          1,71.0                  419,550            1,785                 499
1982      16,3,78             4.9'76          3,125      'Q6          2,3101                   54,856            ',882                 870
1983      22,787              7.205          4,525       287          1,923                    53,300            3,946               1,260
19y84     31,120              9.039          5,676       39'          2,499                                                          1,581
1985      38,190             10.870          6,826       481          2,121                                                          1,902
1986      413,769            12.847          8,068       551          1,673                                                          2,247
1987      45.7413            15.008          9,142j      576            767                                                          2,626
1S88      417,806            17.353         10,897       602            t'37                                                         3,036
1989      19g,r962           19.871         12,478       629            606                                                          3,477
1990      52,215             22.565         14,216       658            489                                                          3,952
1991      54,570             25.452         16,a18       68'7           497                                                          4,454
1992      57,031             28.496         17,952       718            1134                                                         4,986
1993      59,603             31.791         20.028       751            445                                                          5,563
1994      61,123             35.302         22,240       770            456                                                          6,177
1995      62,682             39.012         24,577       789            468                                                          6,827
L996      64,280             43.074         2'7,136      810            419                                                         7,537
1997      65,919             47.409         29,867       830            442                                                         8,296
]998      67,600             52.152         32,856       852            5°14                                                         9,126
1999      69,324             57.365         36,140       873            517                                                         10,126
2000      71,092             6i3.101        39,753       895            530                                                         11,042
2001      72,905             69.411        143,729       918            544                                                         12,146
2002      714, 74            '76. 352       1 48,102     942            558                                                         13,361
2003      76,670             83.988         52,912       966            572                                                         14,697
2004      78,625             92.386         58,203       991            586                                                        16,167
2005      80,630            101.625         64,023    1,016             601                                                         17,784
2006      82,686            111.788         70,426    1,0o1             617                                                         19,562
2007      84,795            122.96',        '77,468    1,o68            632                                                         21,519
2008      86,957            ]35.264         85,216    1,095             64'9                                                        23,671
2009      89,175            148.790         93,737    1,123             665                                                         26,038
1/ All cost and benefit streams are expressed in 1978 orices.
4/ ased on an assumed rate of' arowth for the rural population oi 2.55%/year.
' Using an average tariff of DH 0.6283 derived from the tariffs summarized in page 2
of Annex 4.1 and assuming that total sales are divided between users according to the following proportions:
(a) irrigation 6%; (b) coamercial 15%; (c) streetlignting 26t; (dj administration 2%; and (e) domestic 511.
41/ Baced on a meter rental charge of DH 12.o/year/euetomer.
5/ Based on ani uverage connection :harge of MH 300/new connection derived statisticalLy from 'DUE historical data.
6/ Asseried to he 2?% of capital  eost.
7,' Rased on the inicremental cDst of delivering power to the rural distribution network of LH 0.175/KWh derived
from ONE's 1978-1983 development program.
* The va3ue of' the alternative fuel that would displaced by the electricity sapplied by the Project is not taken as a benefit,
April 1979



- 44 -                   AR'NEX 6.1
MOROCCO
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A. Sector _/
1. ONE - Rapports d'Activite 1976 & 1977
2. ONE - Investment Program 1978-80
3. ONE - Etude du Secteur de l'Electricite
4. Regies - Notes et Statistiques sur les Regies Autonomes
B. Project
1. Plan de Developpement Economique et Social 1978-1982 Secteur:  Electri-
fications Rurales ("Livre Vert") Royaume du Maroc - Ministere de
l'Interieur
2. Etude d'Electrification Rurale - Rapport Technico Economique par
M. L. Maistre, Royaume du Maroc, Ministere de l'Interieur
3. Recensement des Groupes Electrogenes Etat au ler Janvier 1977 -
Ministere d- l'Interieur
4. ONE - Liste des Centres desservis en Energie Electrique
5. M. C. Christofides - Mission Report (Morocco 9/20 - 10/5/1978)
6. M. R. Dujon - Rapport de Mission (Maroc 10/1 - 1/15/1978)
7. M. L. Maistre - Rapport de Mission (Maroc 10/10-22/1978)
8. Appraisal Working Papers
1/   See also Project File related to Loan 1299-MOR.
April 1979



