CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 501 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 29, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 501 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 29, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1974, between MAURITIUS (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also recuested    the International Bank  for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan); and
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before the disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
.Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the Project or program for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit Agreement and
as the description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank".
(b)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement (as such term is defined in the Development
Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement."
(c)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement (as such term is
defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit
Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, or by
the Association to the Borrower, as the case may be."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the se eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Program Unit" means the program implementation unit described in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   "DWC" means the Development Works Corporation, a body corporate
established under Section 3 of the Development Works Act No. 50 of 1970, as
amended by the Development Works Corporation (Amendment) Acts of 1971 and
1972;
(c)   "Institute of Education" means the Institute of Education established
under the Mauritius Institute of Education Act No. 42 of 1973, of the Borrower;
(d)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated


﻿5
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all Schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Loan" means the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement; and
(f)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including


﻿6
the installment payable on February 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, educational, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish, within its Ministry of
Education, a program    implementation unit with such powers, responsibilities,
functions and staff as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, appoint to
the staff of the Program Unit, on a full-time basis and upon terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, a qualified and experienced
architect.
(c)   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, appoint, in consultation with the
Association, to the staff of the program unit on a full-time basis and upon terms
and conditions which shall have been prepared in consultation with the Association
a program manager and a procurement specialist.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall: (i)
award the fellowships provided thereunder to appropriately qualified candidates;
and (ii) employ, in consultation with the Association, specialists acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A(1) of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the construction of the
facilities included in Part A(1) of the Project through DWC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause DWC to employ on a full-time basis an
adequate number of civil engineers to manage the construction of the facilities
included in Part A(1) of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating to the construction
of the educational facilities included in Part A(M) of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project: (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association for its
approval not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, a detailed description of the sites
proposed for the construction of the educational facilities included in Part A(1 )(i),


﻿8                                              Y.
(ii) and (iii) of the Project; and (ii) thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) or
said facilities and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not
later than two years after the date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, for its approval: (i) detailed proposals regarding
the location and the establishment of the rural education centers provided under
Part A(l)(iv) of the Project; and (ii) a program of education for such centers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution included
in the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made;
and (ii) establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose
of such maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association, not later
than one month after the date of this agreement, or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Association, the findings and recommendations of the Ramphul
Committee appointed by the Borrower in 1973 to review private secondary
education, concerning the reorganization of private secondary education; and (ii)
consult with the Association on the measures which the Borrower proposes to
take in the light of such findings and recommendations.


﻿9
Section 4.05. In order to ensure the adequate staffing of the Project
institutions, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that adequate
number of science and practical subjects teachers shall be trained in the Institute
of Education.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than one year after the date
of this Agreement, furnish to the Association for its camments the program of
the Institute of Education and shall consult with the Association on the measures
to be carried out under said program particularly in respect of: (i) the training
of teachers; (ii) the reform of the examination system; and (iii) the establishment
of a tracer system for collecting and recording all relevant information, in respect
of Project institutions, concerning the employment and advanced studies of
graduates therefrom.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Program Unit has been established pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement; and
(b)   the architect referred to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement has been
appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof.
Section 5.02. The date October 29, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
MINFIN
Port Louis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s / Pierre Guy Girald Balancy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael H. Wiehen
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works                    600,000           25% (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
II.   Construction                  1,700,000           100%r of foreign
materials and                                     expenditures
building com-
ponents
III.  Furniture                      500,000            100% of foreign
expenditures or
the ex-factory
price if pro-
duced locally
IV.   Instructional                 1,700,000           100% of foreign
equipment                                         expenditures or
the ex-factory
price if pro-
duced locally
V.    Architectural                  190,000           40% (representing
consultants'                                     the estimated
services                                          foreign expendi-
ture component)
VI.   Program Unit                   210,000            1009; of foreign
expenses                                          expenditures
VII. Unallocated                    2,100,000
TOTAL        7,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Blnk shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association


﻿13
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
1.    The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)         six laboratory and workshop centers;
(ii)       six lower secondary schools;
(iii)       one industrial trade training center; and
(iv)        five rural education centers.
2.    The provision of operational expenses, furniture and equipment for the
Program Unit.
Part B:
The provision of about 18 man-years of specialists' services and about 5
man-years of fellowships.
The location of the specific institutions included in Part Al (iv) of the Project
will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of this
Agreement.
The location of the specific institutions included in Part Al(i), (ii) and (iii)
of the Project and the planned capacity of the institutions included in Part A1(i),
(ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Project are set forth in Part A of the Annex to this
Schedule and the details of technical assistance under Part B hereof are described
in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1979, and
Part B thereof is expected to be completed by September 30, 1979.


﻿15
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Educational Institutions
Estimated Student
Places
Institution           Location           Additional    Total
Laboratory and Workshop
Centers (6):                              2,300       10,000
Port Louis
Rose Hill
Curepipe
Goodlands
Mahebourg
Central Flacq
Lower Secondary
Schools (6):                              3,300        3,300
Quartier Militaire
Triolet
Souillac
Terre Rouge
Black River
Rividre du Rempart
Industrial Trade
Training Center:      Piton                200          200
Rural Education
Centers (5):                               400          400
TOTAL               6,200       13,900
B.   Technical Assistance
1.   Program Unit
(a)  Architect                                   60 man/months
(b)  Procurement Specialist                      20 man/months


﻿16
2.    Industrial Trade Training
Center
(a)   Specialist:*
(i)         Maintenance fitter                24 man/months
(ii)        Tractor/heavy duty
mechanic                           24 man/months
(iii)       Sheet metal/panel
works                              24 man/months
(iv)        Cabinet making/wood
carving                            24 man/months
(v)         Upholstery - plastic/
leather works                      24 man/months
(vi)       Planning officer for
preparation of; train-
ing program, plan of
operation, equipment
lists and architectural
brief                              12 man/months
(b)   Fellowships: two fellowships for
six months for each of the trades
listed in 3a(i) through 3a(v)                 60 man/months
*     One of the specialists under (i) through (v) would serve as team coordinator


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for construction materials, building components, furniture and
instructional equipment shall be let under procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines- for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders will not be prequalified.
3.    Contracts for Civil Works
(i)         Contracts for civil works will be negotiated with DWC. Contract
documents prepared by the architectural consultants referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement will provide the basis for
negotiation, with DWC submitting priced bills of quantities.
(ii)        Prior to  negotiations, the Borrower shall furnish to     the
Association, for its comments, a list of the educational
institutions indicating the estimated value of each, the forecast
timetable for implementation, design drawings, specifications and
other contract documents, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modifications to said documents
shall require the Association's concurrence.
(iii)       Upon completion of negotiations with the DWC and after
evaluation of the priced bills of quantities, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report by the Program Unit on the evaluation of the
negotiated price together with the recommendations by the
Program Unit. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended contract would be inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreemer I, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for ,uch determination.
(iv)        The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those which
shall have been furnished to the Association under paragraph
(i) above.


﻿18
(v)         Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Mauritius may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mauritius if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Mauritius equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Mauritius.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to


﻿19
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for construction materials, building components,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and contracts for furniture
and instructional equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for
its approval, the lists of materials, components, furniture, and equipment under
Categories II, III and IV of paragraph I to Schedule I to this Agreement required
for the project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price.
Items will be grouped to form economic bid packages whenever practical. Items
shall be indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the respective
educational institutions and, where appropriate, the spaces for which they are
required. Amendments to such lists which may be made from time to time shall
also be submitted to the Association for approval.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall also furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   Procurement shall be limited to those items of materials, furniture and
equipment which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph 1(a)


﻿20
above and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same indexes,
codes and numbers as in such lists.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report by the Program Unit on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendation for award of the said Program
Unit and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
or the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
or Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank or the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan or Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
The Program Unit
1.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Program Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have such responsibilities and powers as shall be necessary or incidental to
the proper execution and supervision of the Project and, in particular, the following
responsibilities and powers:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with the Borrrower's ministries and
other agencies involved in the project;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architectural
consultants provided for in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(c)   the approval of the civil works designs of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of furniture and equipment required
for the Project and the preparation of bidding documents:
(e)   the procurement of construction materials and building components
for civil works, furniture and equipment, including the evaluation of
bids and recommendations of awards of contracts;
(f)   the maintenance of records, including records of the execution of the
Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the Association;
(g)   the coordination of the selection, briefing and supervision of the
specialists and the coordination of the selections of the fellowships
provided for in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(h)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from     the Credit
Account.
2.    The Program Unit shall consist of the following staff appointed on a full-time
basis:
(a)   a Program   Manager who shall have overall responsibility for the
direction and supervision of the Program Unit's work;


﻿22
(b)   an Architect;
(c)   a Procurement Specialist;
(d)   an Accountant; and
(e)   such technical, accounting, secretarial and other staff as may be
required for the efficient and proper discharge of the Program Unit's
responsibilities.


