DOCU=MENTS    LOAN NUMBER 1884 OM
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1884 OM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the design,
specifications and implementation of appropriate management sys-
tems, the Borrower shall employ, not later than November 30, 1980
or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, a tech-
nical expert and a financial expert or consultants who shall
include such experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate business, financial and engineering practices and
under qualified management, assisted by qualified and competent
staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing
paragraph, the Borrower shall maintain the overall level of its
subscriber accounts receivable at about three months' billings for
fiscal years 1981 through 1983 and at about two months' billings
for the fiscal year 1984 and thereafter.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower,
the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets, including the facilities in-
cluded in the Project, unless such sale, lease, transfer or
disposal shall have been done in the ordinary course of the
Borrower's business without interfering with the efficient opera-
tion of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿-5-
related statements) for each fiscal year to the Bank in unaudited
form not later than six months for the fiscal years 1980 through
1982, and not later than four months for the fiscal years 1983 and
thereafter, after the end of each such year; (ii) have such
accounts and financial statements audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than eight months for
the fiscal years 1980 through 1982, and not later than six months
for the fiscal years 1983 and thereafter, after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that as of the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall from time to time take
promptly as required all action necessary to provide revenues
sufficient to maintain an annual rate of return of not less than
ten per cent (10%) in its fiscal year 1981 and thereafter.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:


﻿-6-
(i) the annual rate of return in respect of each
fiscal year shall be calculated by using as
numerator the net operating income for that year
and as denominator the average of the net value
of fixed assets in service at the beginning and end
of the same year;
(ii) "net operating income" means gross operating
revenue accruing from telecommunication services
less all operating and administrative expenses
related to such gross operating revenues; and
"operating and administrative expenses" includes
direct costs of operation, administrative, overhead
and adequate maintenance expenses, adequate provi-
sion for depreciation on the revalued fixed
assets in service, and taxes or any payment in
lieu of taxes, but does not include interest and
other charges on debt; and
(iii) "net value of fixed assets in service" means
the gross value of the fixed assets in service less
the accumulated provision for depreciation, as
shall be reviewed and determined by the Borrower
annually starting from its fiscal year 1981, in
accordance with consistently applied appropriate
methods of valuation or revaluation acceptable to
the Bank. The Borrower shall notify the Bank of the
result of such review and determination not later
than June 30 of each year.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Guarantor or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the suspen-
sion of its operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof namely, that the event specified
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTIC,"E VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date                 \, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
General Telecommunication Organization (GENTEL)
P.O. Box 3789
Ruwi
Oman
Cable address:                      Telex:
GENTEL                             3400 MB
Muscat, Oman


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                    o    C^*
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION
ByUtho
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed one hundred percent in foreign currency out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of amounts of the Loan
to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Local switching                   6,100,000
equipment
(2) External plant                    3,400,000
(3) Subscriber's plant                2,100,000
(4) Long distance                     8,200,000
terrestrial systems
(5) Testing equipment,                  600,000
and other equipment
for training center
(6) Consultants' services and           500,000
technical assistance
(7) Unallocated                       1,100,000
TOTAL   22,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;


﻿- 10 -
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in the second co'umn of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance all
expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to and in
consultation with the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
1.   Installation of about 15,700 new lines of subscribers'
local telephone switching equipment and replacement of about 3,900
lines of obsolescent equipment.
2.   Installation of ducts and main subscribers' cables
to provide for about 16,000 new direct exchange lines and provide
capacity for future growth.
3.   Provision of telephone terminal equipment for about
14,000 new subscriber services and about 5,500 new private automa-
tic branch exchange extensions.
4.   Construction of about 350 public call offices to be
located in both urban and rural areas.
5.   Installation of about 6,000 lines of switching capacity
in new private branch exchanges.
6.   Installation of international and national trunk
switching and transmission systems to carry the 1985 projected
traffic loads with acceptable congestion standards.
7.   Provision of switching and miscellaneous equipment to
increase the automatic telex network to about 1,800 subscribers.
8.   Construction of buildings, provision of motor vehicles,
training and test equipment and furniture and fittings.
9.   Provision of technical assistance in management,
training and engineering.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1985
through   June 15, 1990                    2,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than two years
before maturity                                  1.65%
More than two years but not
more than four years before
maturity                                         3.30%
More than four years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  4.95%
More than six years but not
more than eight years
before maturity                                  6.60%
More than eight years
before maturity                                  8.25%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Int rnational Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded Ji accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 15 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     Ld_day of 04-, 198 0
FOR SECRETARN


