Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18521-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMvENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.303 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR A
YEAR 2000 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 24, 1998
Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay Country Management Department
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
Arg. $ 1 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
AFIP                Federal Public Revenue Administration
ANSES               National Social Security Administration
Application (or     A set of computer programs designed to perform repetitive procedures, usually on
system)             a large number of data.
BNA                 State commercial bank
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
Contingency Plan    In the context of the Year 2000 program, a plan for responding to the loss or
degradation of essential services due to a Year 2000 problem in an automated
system or equipment. It generally describes the steps an enterprise would take to
ensure the continuity of its core processes.
Embedded systems  Computer chips forming integral part of any electronic equipment using computer
technology
GOA                 Government of Argentina
Interface           A boundary across which two systems communicate
IT                  Information Technology
Millennium
compliant           Unaffected by the change from 19XX to 2OXX
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PFS                 Secretariat of Public Function in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
Quality assurance   All the planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence
that a product or service will satisfy given requirements for quality
Risk assessment     An activity performed to identify risks and estimate their probability and the
impact of their occurrence
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
SFP                 Secretariat of Public Function in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
TAL                 Technical Assistance Loan
Testing             The process of exercising a product to identify differences between expected and
actual behavior
Validation          The process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the
development process to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements
Y2K                 The potential problems that might be encountered by computer hardware,
software, etc. in processing year-date information for years beyond 2000 (the
"Year 2000 problem")
Y2KEU               Task force of the Information Technologies Under Secretariat of the Secretariat of
Public Function assigned to the "Y2K" program
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Director: Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader: Luis-Jose Mejia



Page 1
Argentina
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..........................4
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................................4
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................................................4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ................................................,.4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     .4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.                                      8
C. Project Description Summary                                                  .9
1. Project components .10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .10
3. Benefits and target population .10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................                           11
D. Project Rationale .............. ,13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .,                                             13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .                          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .15
E. Summary Project Analyses ...................                                                                       16
1. Economic ...........................                                                                     16
2. Financial .17
3. Technical .17
4. Institutional .17
5. Social .17
6. Environmental assessment ...........................                                                     17
7. Participatory approach .17
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                                               18
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                               18
2. Critical risks .18
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................                                               19
G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................                                                                   19
1. Effectiveness conditions .19



Page 2
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                         19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                        19
Annexes
Annex l.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6.     Documents in Project File
Annex 7.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 8.     Country at a Glance



Page 3
Argentina
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional C)ffice
Country Management Unit 7
Date: November 20, 1998                             Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Luis-Jose Mejia
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander           Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: 57449   Sector: Public Sector Management  Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: T.A.L.                          Program of Targeted Intervention:        No
Project Financing Data                [X] Loan
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $30.303 million
Proposed terms:                                                 [X] Single currency, USD
Grace period (years): 5                                    [X] Variable, Libor-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Front-end fee: 1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local            Foreign       Total
Government                                                     13.0                         13.0
IBRD                                                           16.303           14.0        30.30
Total          29.303           14.0         43.30
Borrower: Republic of Argentina
Responsible agency:   Secretariat of Public Function, Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1999        2000       2001
Annual       8.303     17           5
Cumulative       8.303     25.303      30.303
Project implementation period: January 1999 - June 2001
Expected effectiveness date:   January 15, 1999
Expected closing date:      December 31, 2001



4
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
To assist the Government of Argentina on an urgent basis to contain the disruption in the country's social
and economic infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central government systems to
process dates properly after December 31, 1999.
The key performance indicators would be (1) the estimated economic and social damage avoided; and (2)
the number of identified critical functions able to continue operations with minimum disruption through
June 30, 2001 as a result of the proposed remediation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Aninex 1):
CAS document number: 16505-AR Date of CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
Date of CAS update: March 17, 1998; November 4, 1998
While the latest CAS for Argentina, dated April 25, 1997, did not exiplicitly include the project as a
potential operation in the FY 97-00 period, the need for such support has more recently become apparent
and was included in the latest CAS Update dated November 4, 1998. As the full effects of the incipient
problem become manifest, there will be a need for substantial rehabilitation of Argentina's computerized
systems in order to restore full productive effectiveness. These would in turn support the objectives of
sustained economic growth and protection of the economy from shocks, as contained in the CAS. The
proposed operation further protects and supports many institutional reforms and advances made in the
past several years in terms of the Government's economic management capacity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A problem has arisen in Argentina and world wide because the software and chips used in its manifold
computerized systems are unable to properly handle dates in the year 2000. This difficulty (known as the
"Y2K problem") is likely to cause date-based automated processes to malfunction.
The origin of the problem is that early computer programmers adopted a two-digit code to represent
years. One explanation is that they had to work around the constraints imposed by the then limits on the
size of computer memory and expenses of storing data. A useful technique for doing so was to represent
dates with an implied century. This made economic sense in reducing the amount of storage required and
improving computers' processing speed (one megabyte of magnetic disk storage in 1965 cost about $760,
compared to seventy five cents today). To the extent that the eventual consequences of using date
shortcuts were contemplated in the 1960-70s, it was believed that the underlying programs would be
replaced well before the century changed-or that there would be ample time to correct the problem.
Nobody expected software to last as long as it actually has. Now though, beginning in year 2000,
computer systems will need to differentiate between respective dates in the 20th and 21st centuries in order
to remain effective and not behave erratically (i.e., to be "Year 2000 compliant").
The significance of this problem derives from the high dependence of Argentina's economy and society
on computers. These systems have become integral to almost every aspect of life as they are now
commonplace in business and scientific applications, both in operating systems and in the micro chips
used for many control devices. For many years, the Government and private sector have been carrying out
operational, managerial support and service functions through increasingly automated and integrated
telecommunications networks. These are at the heart of their institutional performance. Moreover, as



5
information and communications technologies have become more versatile, accessible and integrated,
their roles have increased.
Already many critical policy and most administrative reforms proposed to improve public sector
management (including those supported by Bank projects) require effective information systems for their
implementation. These include: systems for tax collection, pension administration, banking regulation and
supervision, administration and regulation of union-run health care plans, operation of water, energy,
telecommunications, train and other transport systems, monitoring and evaluation of education
attainment, tracking of disease incidence and other indicators of health status, public sector payrolls, and
financial management. These systems in turn rely substantially on computer software (respectively
constituting the applications enabling the computers to perform specific tasks or ernbedded in chips that
are components of myriad systems and tools). The software thus embodies the procedural logic of
institutional functions, and as such are valuable assets that require careful management.
Safeguarding these assets into the 215' century is the immediate task of overcoming the vulnerability to
the Y2K problem. Although simple in origin, this difficulty can have serious consequences. The failure to
mitigate it could affect hardware, embedded chips, languages and compilers, operating and security
systems, database management, transaction-processing systems and more. They could corrupt data, crash
programs or completely fail to operate, causing huge amounts of records and statistics to be
compromised. Any entity with time-sensitive data from nuclear reaclors and hospitals to financial
institutions could be ham ed. Essential services, e.g., benefit payments, transport or emergency facilities
could be severely disrupted. Moreover, numerous agencies and enterprises rely heavily on exchanges of
information to support their work and have considerable interaction with each others' systems'.
The most immediate economic and financial consequence of Y2K for the Government and the rest of the
economy is the large cost that many institutions will have to incur in fixing their systems to prepare for
the 21S' century. This includes the opportunity cost of not being able to undertake other investments
during the remainder of the 1990s because of the need to focus resources on Year 2000 conversions.
Moreover, the country's macroeconomy may be adversely affected by the disruptions in economic growth
and social order that could result from the aforementioned types of systemic problems and failures to
prepare adequately for the date change.
Therefore, the Government of Argentina, along with the private sector, has an overriding interest in
seeing that the country's computer systems, together with those of their customers and vendors, are
rendered "millennium compliant"-or face severe consequences. Action is needed to repair, update or
replace those systems which are deficient or untrustworthy. In most instances, the basic task is to
inventory the present applications, find the source code of all programs, identify and correct date
calculations, recompile all these changes, and test to make sure that what has been changed is correct.
What makes all this particularly challenging is the need to: (a) find all of the places where date problems
might lead a program to miscalculate or terminate; (b) coordinate the repair of all parts of the overall
system so that no one repair interferes with the operations of other parts of the system; (c) test the repair
by using data that accurately mimics the processing that will occur in the next decade; and (d) complete
the remediation in adequate time.
It might be necessary to convert existing applications in order to renovate them or develop new ones; in
some instances, to retire or decommission an existing application or system component. With some
packaged software, the approach might be a small addition to the original code that bypasses or corrects
the problem. Alternatively, codes written for customized applications may call for finding words that
denote time and adding two extra digits-or instructing the computer to treat every date before a certain
1 AddMonal examples can befoundin theprojec fdes.



6
year as belonging to the next century. There are numerous complications though. It is believed that many
companies know even less about their embedded systems than about their software, a knotty problem
because manufacturers of equipment will use different sources of embedded chips, resulting in some of
their production being compliant, some of it not. Also Y2K affects every system that has an external
interface. These could be inundated by the proposed changes from systems with which they interface
(fixes that will have to be fielded simultaneously). And the fact that 2000 is a leap year compounds the
issue.
For the Argentine Government, the core factors underlying its strategy are the following:
*  January 1, 2000 will surely arrive and Y2K-caused disruptions are equally foreseeable. But there
is far less certainty as to what will happen to the aforementioned and other systems and facilities
as a result, i.e., how widespread the problems will be, how much will need to be fixed, and what
it will cost to do so.
*  It would be prudent before then to get meaningful diagnoses of the extent of the possible damage
and to try to avert and contain it as expeditiously as possible in order to lessen the costs of failure.
*  There is insufficient time left in this relatively limited interval to plan and put in place all of the
precautionary measures that should theoretically be taken, let alone convert to new application
software.
*  The Government needs to demonstrate that it is firmly addressing the "Y2K problem," and to
stimulate broad scale civic participation in the process. In doing the latter though, the last thing
the authorities want to do is to generate fear that could compound whatever disruption might
ensue.
In Argentina, as elsewhere, the Government has come only relatively recently to address these problems.
But it has done so with a proactive approach, on which it has sought to accelerate progress subsequently.
At the outset, it took constructive steps to develop a comprehensive strategy. One of its elements was to
raise a high level of awareness of"Y2K" by disseminating wide scale publicity about its nature so as to
alert the citizenry, as well as to defuse and correct possible misleading impressions. It also sought to
ensure that there was an official program in each public sector institution to address the problem. It
squarely placed the responsibility on each agency for definitive actions in its sphere, instructing every one
to develop a strategic plan and to allocate significant resources to the problem. This was complemented
by indications of selective assistance for those vvhich could be most sensitively and seriously hurt.
In light of the imminence of Year 2000 and the impossibility of being fully compliant in time, the
Government has set out a phased approach to mitigating the possible damage, along with contingency
provisions. The authorities appreciate that the full extent of the problem's dimensions will not be readily
determined. They have therefore deemed it essential to approach the problem with a prioritizing focus.
The Government's strategy calls for simultaneous successive cycles of mini-project development, side-
by-side with the implementation of the aforementioned first round of "Y2K" mitigation measures. Some
of the critical functions are easy to identify (for example, pensions and taxes) and are already being
addressed and included in a first round likely systems to be supported. Other systems will only be
identified later during project execution on the basis of the competing agencies' respective importance
for the security and welfare of Argentines, their income and payment obligations, legal transactions and
elements of personal confidentiality (ref. Sections below on "sector issues" and "Implementation
arrangements."). These provisions would be accompanied by the parallel development of contingency



7
plans for testing and mitigating those sectors not covered in this first round (as well as for those systems
which prove to still need mitigation after Year 2000).
Another element of the Government's strategy was the recognition of the need to aLccompany these
actions with national education and mobilization campaigns, for which the authorities usefully enlisted
the Internet. This is intended to lessen the risks and liabilities of the approaching difficulties, and public
apprehension that the Government is insufficiently attentive to the issues.
The Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, the hub of central government initiatives, led the defining
work and continues to oversee the program. In mid-1997, the Cabinet Office alerted all ministries and
secretariats to the need to gear themselves up for "Y2K" program activity. In August 1997, it established
a special task force ("Unidad Ejecutora 2000-Y2KEU") in the Civil Service Secretariat's then Directorate
for Information Technologies for tackling the problem. The Directoirate has the regular task of dictating
the regulatory framework for technology policies related to computer science, teleinformatics, multimedia
technologies and other electronic means and systems aspects. The Cabinet Office charged the Directorate
with providing technical assistance to the national public agencies on "Y2K".
The Y2KEU team initially commissioned self-audits of the federal agencies in order to get a first
impression of the extent of the possible problem and of the potential priority rankings of remediation
cases. The team likewise began publicizing the issue, and convening meetings of concerned federal
officials to set out the methodologies for testing and curative actions. They followed this by launching
the preparations for corrective measures in what they tentatively identified to be the most sensitive public
service sectors. By early 1998, Y2KEU began, with Bank help, to provide technical support to several of
these agencies for inventorying their conditions in some detail and analyzing Y2K's impact, which led to
the development of initial action plans by several of these agencies. This initially involved the national
social security administration organization (ANSES), which after aclvice from the Y2KEU has already
launched testing and remedial actions. There has also been collaboration with the federal tax and customs
entity (AFIP), the state commercial bank (BNA) and others. IBRD consultants have participated in these
activities, advising on suitable software for security and encryption standards, tools for estimating
resource requirements for assessments, conversions and testing, etc. Since these actions, Y2KEU has
maintained a steady stream of meetings and communications with federal agencies, concerning their
action plans, standards for their fulfillment and progress on these matters.
Alongside of these public sector initiatives, it is important to note that individual Argentine public
agencies and private enterprises have made numerous strides. The fiinancial sector seems to have made
most progress (as appears to be true internationally). Early on, the Central Bank set targets for the
nation's banks to become "Y2K compliant," which it has been monitoring on a quarterly basis. As early
as 1996, Argentina's 12Ih largest bank, the "Banco Credicoop", started making assessments and
converting applications to test every line of code, screen and report, both in terms of mainframe systems
and at the desktop level. It reported in July 1998 that it had been "tracking the Y2K bug" through its
systems, reviewing 3.5 million lines of COBOL, 800,000 lines of Assembler, 500,000 lines of NCL and
many desktop and comparable applications, as well as trips into the data logic of databases and
transaction processors. It calculated that it was then 35 percent done with its repairs. In mid-1998 also,
the Central Bank (in addition to the aforementioned goal-setting) was reported to have organized a special
group of banks to collaborate on this issue, and was attempting to conduct a series of inter-enterprise
tests, starting with six banks and their ATM networks. It contemplates a 120-bank test in April 1999.
Further, the nation's principal oil and gas company, YPFSA, reported that it has miade substantial
progress towards becoming "Y2K-compliant." In addition, while there is no known census of private
firms' activities, many time-sensitive businesses are known to have already started attacking their
millennium problems. Moreover, as elsewhere, a consultant industry has developed within Argentina to



8
provide conversion and related IT solutions, as well as to apprise (and stimulate) individual businesses on
how to engage in such activities.
In advancing the arrangements for implementing the "Y2K" program, the Government has recently taken
the following steps:
(a) It restructured the organizational framework for the program so as to clearly distinguish
between the regulatory functions of the ex-Information Technologies Directorate and those
authorities and capacities required for speedy, effective implementation of this Project's activities
through the newly established project coordination unit (PCU) These matters are detailed in
Section C, Project Description Summary of this PAD.
(b) In July 1998, it elevated the ex-Information Technologies Directorate to the level of Under
Secretariat, with which all federal agencies are obligated to clear their "Y2K" programs prior to
new purchases of IT-related goods or services.
(c) Simultaneously, it charged the regulatory agencies supervising essential infrastructure-type
services with seeing that "Y2K" requirements also applied to institutions under theirjurisdiction
(even those which are no longer Government-operated). Y2KEU has been meeting with these
agencies to follow up on their related measures.
(d) After initial delays in launching the PCU, the Government has appointed a suitable officer to
head the Unit and has been recruiting staff to fill its other positions. With interim short-term
consultant assistance, the Unit has stepped up the PPF-funded initial mobilization and
implementation tasks.
(e) In parallel, the Government and the Bank have been collaborating in undertaking assessments
of the risks involved in the implementation of existing Bank-supported projects for ensuring that, to
the extent possible, the portfolio is shielded by Y2K disruption. In addition to possible disruption
of significant utilities and other services, breakdowns in payment and transfer systems leading to
substantial delays in the flow of funds to and from the Bank, and to and from project entities, could
lead to substantial delays in project execution, as well possibly as financial problems for the Bank
and its borrowers. (To this end as well incidentally, all new projects being appraised will hereafter
include a specific assessment on "Y2K" risks and any corrective action that need be taken before
end FY99. These assessments focuses on determining which projects could potentially be affected
by the problem, and setting out to adopt an adequate level of practices and safeguards. These could
be financed from project contingency funds).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main issue for the Government is now how to organize itself better and more rapidly to undertake the
timely measures needed to address this urgent situation while simultaneously minimizing possible
misallocation of funds to lower priority activities in mitigating the problem. The authorities appreciate
that they need to maintain close surveillance over the Y2K program because of the continuing
deficiencies in implementation capacity at all levels of government, particularly for tasks with short
deadlines and undefined scope at the outset.
Given the pressures of time, the Government has decided to provide financing in the first instance for
critical central agencies and functions, rather than take a broad based approach which would include all
agencies As noted, priority rankings would be made for the envisaged assistance based on the results of
analyses of the potential economic, social and political impact of non-remediation. This is intended to
lessen the risks and liabilities of the approaching dangers and to achieve benefits as soon as possible. The



9
PPF-funded activities will help identify other major critical sysLems, diagnose the effort required to make
them millennium-compliant, estimate the resources required, and prepare the initial action plans.
Activity is underway for development of guidance for the first public information activities, pilot courses
for those who would prepare the entities chosen for the mitigation nneasures, and conducting rounds of
these courses. A national educational and mobilization campaign will alert the public and private sectors
to possible dangers of failures to achieve "Y2K-compliance," and information on best practices will be
made available.
Although one of the first Bank clients to address the issue of Y2K compliance, Argentina is beginning
remediation efforts very late, and it would not be possible to repair all identified non-compliant systems.
Government therefore proposes, in addition to remediation efforts, to prepare during 1999 to take
recovery measures on all critical systems starting on January 1st, 2000. Recovery activities and on-going
remediation would be necessary for at least one year after this.date. Given that the magnitude of the
problem is still largely unknown and costs may outstrip available fLnding, it also possible that
remediation and recovery activities may taken longer than that and require additional resources.
It should also be highlighted that the project scope does not include provincial governments nor the
private sector. With respect to the former, it is anticipated that provincial governnments may avail
themselves to Bank-financing for Y2K activities under the on-going Provincial Development 11 project
(Ln. 3877-AR) which has as much as $ 80 million of uncommitted funds. An agreement has been
reached with the Ministry of Interior which administers the above loan to follow the same approach as
envisaged under the proposed operation. In the case of the private sector, the Government's role will be
limited to promoting Y2K awareness and encouraging regulatory agencies in the areas of electricity, gas,
telecommunications, transport and finance/banking to ensure compliance in their respective sectors.
C: Project Description Summary
With the appreciation that the task exceeded Y2KEU's capabilities, the Government requested a Bank
loan, preceded by a US$ 1.5 million PPF advance for preparing the overall program and advancing
implementation. The project will entail support for: (a) advancement of the initial inventories of the
agencies' computer systems; (b) the development of the detailed guidelines to govern the remediation
works and the initial implementation of the first cases; (c) definition of the eligibility criteria for
individual agencies' acquisitions of Project funds for these works; (d) elaboration of the guidelines for
procurement of goods and services and their review, as well as the other essential components of project
execution; and (e) technical assistance and training regarding the methodological aspects (e.g., testing and
uses of tools) of solving Y2K computer operations problems.
The project will further provide support for particular entities and systems in order for them to proceed
with the testing, modification and verification of changes in priority computerized systems of federal
agencies designed to remedy or otherwise mitigate the effects of the "Y2K problem." These activities
(sub-projects) would be financed during the period January 1, 1999 to June 30, 2001, with retroactive
financing of eligible expenditures after July 1, 1998.
The project's support will be allocated on the basis of a series of agreements with the agencies selected
for the remediation works or "sub-projects", based on the application of eligibility criteria and the
decision of an Executing Committee (elaborated in the Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
section below). The works would extend from the technical assistance required for planning the "Y2K"
activities through the investments needed for carrying out the remediation measures, together with quality
assurance and other tests to verify satisfactory results.



10
Loan funds would be used to reimburse expenditures incurred or to pay contractors directly against their
invoices for these activities, as well as the incremental operating costs of the agencies involved in them.
Consultants would be employed throughout these processes to assist the benefiting agencies and the
project coordination unit in these operations. They would as well provide independent monitoring and
verification of suitable technical solutions, as well as effective competition and transparency in
procurement decisions.
Given the strong element of public good and timeliness at stake, these "sub-projects" would be initially
and partly financed on a grant basis. All of the first year's project implementation expenses would be
provide,, from the proposed Loan. None of the benefiting agencies would be obligated to repay from
their respective operating budgets, the Bank's share of financing of their "sub-projects." However, they
would begin to finance these subprojects in their respective second year's project implementation period.
Therefore, the Bank's share of the aforementioned beneficiaries' incremental operating costs would
decline proportionately beginning in the second year of implementation. These same provisions would be
applied to any of the uses of Loan 3877-AR, the Second Provincial Development Project, for comparable
"Y2K" activity at provincial levels.
In addition to these sub-projects, the project would also include technical assistance for on-going mini-
project preparation study and more detailed design of project implementation measures. Simultaneously,
an expert in information dissemination would provide guidance for carrying out a broad based
information campaign. A second expert will design a "train the trainers" course to prepare the first
agencies chosen for mitigation measures and local consultants for participating in the project. Finally, a
firm(s) would be engaged to verify the status of Y2K remediation activities by critical sector entities in
the public or private sector.
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown).
Component                 Category         Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
__________________ _(US$MI  (US$M)   financing
Support Activities            Inst. Build./Other         7.9        18.2      6.9        23.0
Remediation and Rescue        Inst. Build./Other        31.5       72.7     19.5        64.0
Project Coordination          Project Mgt.               2.1         4.8      2.1         7.0
PPF Refinancing                                    1.5        3.5       1.5         5.0
Front-end fee                                     0.303      0.7      0.3         1.0
Total        43.303    100.0      30.303     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project does not attempt to address long-term institutional problems in the management of the
Government's information systems. The institutional support provided under the project concentrates on
the Government's Year 2000 Execution Unit and the project coordination unit to enable them to perform
their tasks during the life of the project and to help implementing agencies prepare their remediation
assistance requests.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefit of the project will be the preservation or restoration of vital economic and social
activities resulting from the infrastructure and services, under the purview of the central government,
kept operative or rehabilitated. The benefits would be spread broadly throughout Argentina as a result
and are expected to be most evident in: (1) the continued functioning of core government services, most
notably, tax, pension, health insurance and other fiscal transfers and payments; (2) other services such as



11
animal/plant health services, import and export processing, training, social protection programs,
registration, national identity cards, passports, licenses, and related access to public services; and (3)
greater likelihood of the continuity of basic public services such as electricity, gas, water,
telecommunications, transport, financial systems and banking. The intended benefits will be estimated as
part of the process of setting priorities for individual sub-projects and will include the gains (or prevention
of losses) from each of the investments made in order to achieve compliance or to remedy the costs of not
being compliant.
4. Institutional and implementation arranigements.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) reporting to the Secretary of Public Function will be in charge of
project implementation and administration. The PCU would carry out initial studies and activities, prepare
guidelines for diagnoses and subproject implementation plans, prepare terms of reference, analyze the
impact of non-remediation for selected agencies, review implementation plans, as well as managing the
project. The PCU will prepare monthly action plans for approval by an Executing Committee composed
of the National Director (the Secretary of Public Function) and two of the Secretariat's UnderSecretaries.
The Executive Committee's functions would also include decisions, guided by national priorities, as to
which particular economic or social function or respective Government agencies merit the highest
ranking among the full range of potentially affected programs, which would be reported quarterly to the
Cabinet of Ministers. In the absence of any known international models, the Government would be
obliged to choose among competing claimants in an essentially rationing (or "triage") process. It has thus
to set priorities for identifying those systems that matter most in public sector functioning, fixing those
that can be fixed, and drawing up contingency plans to cope with the rest. The Bank would provide
assistance through the review of the lists of proposed priority agencies, and would also approve each
"sub-project".
Within the project, this process would consist of the application of a set of eligibility criteria for choosing
among competing claims for combined Government-Bank funds, to be presented by the interested
agencies. These criteria were agreed to during negotiations. They include: (a) the rneasure of the
economic and/or social benefits applicable to a given agency or function that preventing or alleviating the
Y2K problem could provide; and (b) the state of readiness of that particular agency to undertake Y2K
testing and remediation. The authorities might elect to designate as their most important core functions
the retention and secure provision of power, water and sewerage, telecommunications, transport and
banking services. These comprise critical elements of public safety (as well as depending heavily on
networks).
In order to prepare the ground and speed the way for action, the PCU would see that an initial risk
assessment and impact analysis of core business processes in the priority sectors have been carried out.
These actions would be completed prior to the effectiveness of the recommended Loan.
The main line of activity under the project would be the testing and remediation functions of the
individual agencies selected. They would bear the principal responsibilities for the implementation of
these activities in their respective organizations, as well as their subsequent maintenance. They would
prepare the proposals for Y2K activities for PCU review in the first instance, and, if selected,
subsequently prepare the work programs and plans for the conduct of these operations. In this
connection, it is expected that the agencies would employ consultant firms for these activities under
financing from the proposed Loan, rather than individual consultants. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that current agency staff members would have to resign from the public
service in order to compete for contracts to be let for this work.



12
The PCU would be assisted in its operations by the aforementioned "Year 2000 Execution Unit"
(Y2KEU). The latter consists of an experienced group of information technology professionals who are
quite knowledgeable on Year 2000 problems, as well as the capabilities and conditions of their
counterparts in the principal central government institutions. It would advise the agencies on diagnoses,
preparation and approval of plans, and would assist the PCU on technical aspects of Y2K; it might also be
enlisted to heip overcome Y2K problems in particular agencies. Similarly, it might provide a useful
resource for procurement and contracting matters.
The PCU will draft the model operational agreement with agencies, which will spell out their
responsibilities, conditions and both parties' obligations. The PCU would ensure that the applications
provide the requisite information, and it subsequently would sign the agreements with those chosen.
Finally, the PCU would be responsible for the preparation of the later stages of the project in accordance
with IBRD norms. In the light of the broad scope of these responsibilities, the large number of
participants and the urgent nature of the problem, the PCU would receive up-front training in Y2K issues,
management and planning, decision-making, conflict resolution, etc.
Procurement, contracting and administrative support for the implementation of the subprojects would be
carried out by the PCU (whose composition is shown below). Due to the urgent nature of the operation, it
has been agreed that at least in the initial stages, this project would be non-LACI eligible. To avoid delay,
an existing Project Administration Unit (National Pension Administration TA Project, Loan 4131) would
provide administrative, accounting and procurement services; this unit would at the same time train two
consultants (already hired) in project procurement and accounting. This Unit's financial management
procedures have been reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist and found suitable for the
initial stages of the project. A LACI-compatible project management and accounting system has been
identified and negotiations to acquire it are in progress. All procedures and other aspects of the Project's
activities would be governed by an operating manual satisfactory to the Bank, whose formal adoption is a
condition of Effectiveness. It would contain the model operational agreement, the agency eligibility
criteria, the terms of beneficiary financial assistance, etc.
The Executing Committee wvould analyze and have to approve the substantive content of agency
proposals, their unLderlying strategies and their merits for assistance. Its procedures and operating policies
would emphasize transparency, competition and fairness, as well as the importance of establishing
program norms at internationally acceptable levels of quality.
The Ministry of Economy will transfer counterpart budget funds to the project account which the PCU
will manage. The unit also will manage the Special Account, prepare all requests for reimbursement
from the Bank and keep all project records and accounts. Project accounts, financial statements, the
Special Account and the SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank. Audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Technical, performance and financial reviews would be conducted quarterly by an independent audit
entity agreed with the Borrower. Supervision would be carried out by the Bank's Task Team, which
would review implementation of the project on a quarterly.



13
Project Coordination Unit
|Project Coordinator|
| (Econo;mist)    l
|Impact Evaluation and |  |Project Administration|
|Quality Assurance                 Unit        l
Information       I Y2K Executing Unit I       Implementation          Y2K Compliwice
Dissemination Unit                                  Monitoring                Testing
L   ---------     __
Institutional placement of the PCU
President
Office of the Chief of
Cabinet of Ministers
Secretariat Public     Secretariat of Fiscal  Secretariat   atgic         Secretariat of
Function                 Equity                  Controi            Parlianentary and
Institutional Relations
Project Coordination
Unit
Undersecretariat for    Undersecretariatfor
Information Technoto        Public Sector
Managenent
Year 2000 Executing
Unit
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*   Draw on the existing Bank-financed portfolio (which provides support for many significant
Federal agencies) rather than initiating new lending. On-going projects coulld conceivably be



14
amended to mobilize some funds and deploy established implementation machinery to pursue
Y2K remediation in the cases of individual Government agencies currently being assisted.
However, there is no necessary correlation between current Borrowers and those on the priority
agency list. Y2K expertise would have to be developed in each project execution agency.
Finally, coordination with "Y2KEU" would still be necessary.
*  Direct project management by each agency was rejected in favor of a central Project
Coordination Unit due to the multiplicity of agencies involved in implementation and because the
repetitive nature of interventions (consulting, acquisition of equipment) favors a strong central
unit.
*  More definitive, comprehensive planning before undertaking the Project: The imminence of the
emerging problems limits the preparatory period. A slow implementation start is therefore not a
realistic option. Moreover, the project approach has to be relatively experimental given the
considerable unknowns of the emerging situation, and therefore there is a limit on what would be
gained by further study. In addition, the scheme calls for on-going project preparation activity
(including empirical learning from the initial stages) which should compensate for design
oversights or errors at the outset. Project design and operating procedures will concentrate on the
problem identification and remediation process. Actual implementation will be composed of the
initial steps of project execution and simultaneously the beginning of successive cycles of
subproject development financed by the project.
*  Direct support to Provincial Governments. The project will provide advisory services on request
to the Provincial Program Coordination Unit in the Interior Ministry for the latter's conduct of
Y2K-related activities at provincial levels. However, financing for all testing, remediation, etc.
actions would have to be provided by resources of the Provincial Development II Loan.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned): None.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There is no known prior Bank experience in dealing with the Y2K problem in individual borrowing
countries to draw on or lessons to be reported. Moreover, although there has been much written about
how many institutions around the world began to examine and fix their computerized systems in recent
years, there is relatively little rigorous evaluation of the data available on this experience. Several
countries have already applied national programs, although a mid-1998 review indicated that only 19 of
120 of the Bank's borrowing countries had then initiated such activity. Estimates of program costs run to
hundreds of billions of dollars for correcting and testing affected systems world-wide. A commonly used,
considered reliable illustration is the estimate of the size of the problem in a medium-sized USA state,
North Carolina (population 7 million). Credible estimates call for expending over $300 million to fix the
problem in its government systems alone.
Nonetheless, what is known from the latter has been gleaned and some of it applied in the design of the
proposed Project. This has mainly concerned the development of the requisite planning . One aspect of
this has been the need for setting national priorities and determining which systems are the most critical,
in conjunction with drawing up contingency plans for what will go awry or be uncompleted. A second
aspect has been emphasis on the elaboration of diagnoses to check computerized systems in order to
identify potential problems that could be caused by the Year 2000 date change. From this, as well as the
growing body of knowledge-sharing within Argentina's own information technology community, a
scheme has been drawn up for use in the project which comprises a roadmap as to which critical steps
must be taken.



15
A second ingredient of international experience reflected in project design concerns the selection of
sectors to be deemed as priorities for proposed Y2K remediation efforts. One survey showed enormous
variation among countries, within which finance appeared to predominate; then air transport,
telecommunications and energy; followed by water and surface transport. InfoDev's seminars and other
sources have shown a general tendency among borrowers towards: (a) according the fields of banking and
finance, power and gas, water and telecommunications the highest priority ; (b) placing transport facilities
in second place; and (c) adding health and defense facilities. The more advanced countries appear to be
focussing on potential failures that threaten public safety. Overall, governments have placed differing
emphases on particular sectors in reflection of diverse views on which "risks" they consider best warrant
premiums, i.e., economic, public safety, health, political. The main lesson has been that each govemment
must set its own priorities in remediation strategies within the constrained finances, capacity and time
available. This experience has guided the approach used in the Projecit for definition of the eligibility
criteria to be used in selection of the Argentine agencies to benefit from the recommended Loan.
In addition, the design of this project follows the lessons of successful "emergency" activities. The
objective is focused and its activity would be priority-driven. The plan for managing the operation and
for its close, independent surveillance draws on the demonstrated need for sufficient flexibility to react to
unforeseeable circumstances. Decision-making authority and project implementation are highly
centralized so as to reduce the chances for bottlenecks. Furthermore, the project does not pursue any
sector policy objectives and has no conditionality in this respect. The approach for monitoring and
evaluation emphasizes adaptable action plans and work programs.
On the other hand, the Government's implementation record has been mixed, with numerous agencies
having weak capacity in management and procurement. Under these circumstances, the "best practice" in
other emergency-type projects was to centralize procurement responsibility. This is being replicated here.
Similarly, TA is to be provided in order to help the implementation unit prioritize investments in order to
try to maximize their impact and demonstration effects.
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership:
The Government has already designed a suitable strategy for approaching the Y2K problem. It likewise
drew up the program to carry out that strategy, including the establishrnent of an appropriate
organizational framework for its direction and implementation. The Cabinet Office has repeatedly
demonstrated strong political support for and interest in the program. It intends to issue a resolution
requiring all Federal Government agencies to become "Y2K - compliant" by Septemlber 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The Bank's involvement is intended to assist Argentina in coping with the potentially serious disruption
that could occur, possibly causing significant economic contraction and social difficLilties. Bank support
is therefore aimed at helping the Government obtain widespread recognition of, and mobilize mitigating
measures for, these problems. Because of the emergency-type circumstances, Bank assistance in project
management in such cases should be valuable in mounting and carrying out the operation on a timely,
effective manner-along with strong screening and control procedures. The Bank's presence would thus
help ensure that the PCU has and maintains adequate accounting, monitoring, management systems,
technical review and auditing of these relatively widely dispersed activities. More broadly, the Bank is in
a position to assist the Argentine government tap into a world-wide effort to cope with the Y2K problem
and can offer a way for Argentina to benefit from the experiences of other countries through its web-site,
support under InfoDev, and other intemational linkages that the Bank has formed.



16
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
The nature of the Y2K problem puts much at risk and represents a threat to "business-continuity". The
less prepared government agencies or any other business units are for Year 2000, the more costly it will
be to fix. Achieving or reinstating system integrity belatedly will become more expensive, and there
could be litigation over service or production failures. Further, it is likely that there might be an
increasing cost for information technology workers as their supply is unlikely to be able to keep up with
demand. And the failure to make processes millennium-compliant quickly could cause productivity
losses.
Therefore, the issue is less a technology problem than a potential business liability, and the project's full
economic benefits will be in reducing or containing that cost. No ex-ante economic analysis (ERR) of
project returns is possible until specific investments or sub-projects are identified and analyzed,
particularly because of the unpredictable extent of testing work, the most time-consuming part of the task.
This issue has been recognized by several countries, and addressed in different ways. A good example of
how to evaluate potential investments in becoming Y2K compliant is the United States General
Accounting Office's "Year 2000 Computing Crisis: Business Continuity and Contingency Planning"
publication (August 1998), which can be found in the project files.
lndividual sub-projects to financing under the project would be selected based on:
a. An assessment of the impact of the operation of their particular service or function on:
* Public safety
* Public health
* Public security (economic and national security)
 Preservation of law and order
b. Consequential damages: major effects of non-Y2K-compliance on these and/or:
* adequate supply and distribution of water, power, sewerage, transportation
* public administration operations
* health and education services
* tax and other collections
* social security and other social program disbursements
* trade
* banking and other financial system operations
* resolution of legal disputes involving sizeable amounts of monies
* others
c. Collateral damages: effect of non-Y2K-compliance by this agency on other critical agencies'
functions
d. Estimate of the cost of consequential damages versus the cost of preventive remediation
Investments per se would be limited to the least cost alternative for "emergency" prevention and
rehabilitation, and must be demonstrably technically sound in accordance with agreed criteria. No
estimate is made of the potential benefits from upgrading of hardware and software, which will most
likely increase productivity and spawn additional unanticipated benefits.



17
2. Financial
The uncertainty of the Year 2000 issue precludes a realistic estimation of the costs of making all priority
computer systems compliant and the final cost estimate at this point is open-ended. Because of the
uncertain nature of the work involved, the Government needs to be prepared to invest additional resources
and/or ration what is available to the priority systems. Close monitoring of the program and the adoption
of contingency plans will be a critical factor in ensuring that whatever resources are available are directed
to the most critical systems. In addition, perhaps the largest part of repairing the system will be the testilg
entailed, whose expenses are difficult to forecast. However, in the long-run, the cost of operating the
upgraded Y2K systems should pose no or very little incremental costs over the present costs of operating
these same systems and should not pose a long-run problem of sustainability.
3. Technical.
The basic technological questions are generally well understood and the solutions per se do not present
any technological challenge. As noted earlier, the problems tend to be more the uncertainty on the extent
of the problem, particularly because of imbedded systems, and the lack of historical records to diagnose
and remedy old systems. Another technical constraint tends to be the availability of technically qualified
and skilled staff/consultations to undertake the work. The adequacy of design specifications and cost
estimates for agency subprojects would be reviewed by the project coordination unit and independent
technical experts provided by the external procurement agency.
4. Institutional:
Executinig agencies: The present institutional capacity in the Secretary of Public Function is considered
adequate but needing strengthening, primarily in order to be able to cope with the urgent nature of the
work. Generally, Argentina has a relatively well developed information system industry which can be
tapped, along with external consultants, for the project. The existing capacity would be strengthened with
technical assistance. The executing unit would consist of the project director, with operational
responsibilities (including overall project administration and supporting activities) assigned to the Project
Coordination Unit within that Secretariat. The latter's Y2K Executing Unit (Y2KEU) would provide
technlical backup to the PCU. The responsibility for the execution of each subproject will rest with the
individual agency selected for Y2K testing and remediation works.
5. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive net social impact. The government programs and services
likely to be included in the project a priori would be selected on the basic of their contribute to social and
economic welfare of a large population. Moreover, the project would also have an irnpact more broadly
throughout Government and the private sector, and should help workers and owners to avoid (or lessen)
destabilization of economic activity. The information dissemination campaign will be an important facet
of the project in order to keep the public abreast of the need for changes and to explain, in the case of new
requirements, the impact that that may have on their eligibility for certain public services.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      []A   []B    [X] C
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project uses a priority-driven approach to identify eligible investments within the Federal public
service, which are requested by the concerned agencies. The latter figure among the primary
beneficiaries, which ultimately include those segments of the Argentine population tlhey serve.



18
b. Other key stakeholders:
Provincial governments and the private sector. These stakeholders will be kept informed of the process
and any changes to public services because of the need to be Y2K compliant. Moreover, in the case of
provincial governments, they will be supported via the Provincial Development 11 loan.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
The subprojects in and of themselves are inherently irreversible and should not pose any significant
incremental cost in terms of future operation. Further, if the "Y2K" damage is severe enough and the
affected infrastructure is sufficiently valuable, the stakeholders would have an economic incentive to
maintain the remedial measures. At present, there are no provisions for government budgetary support
beyond the implementation of the project's investment phase. As noted above, that may prove to be
inadequate to cover all systems and more investment will be needed. In addition, without continuing
maintenance, some infrastructure could be exposed to continuing damage in the future.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk         Risk Minimization Measure
Ratin
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Miniisterial Decree on Y2K compliance is not  N    Discussions with political levels and
issued.                                            opposition parties will be necessary
Inisufficiency of qualified technicians available    M  Argentina has a substantial and growing
for hire                                            information technology industry, which
can be readily supplemented from at least
equivalent expertise in Brazil and Chile.
Market demand drives governmlent information  M     Government must be prepared to take
technology experts to the private sector            measures to keep critical experts within
government agencies
Estimated amount proves insufficient to deal  N     A 2nd project can be quickly prepared.
with the Y2K issue
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Weak PCU management and implementation        S    (a) Hire high caliber consultants; (b) hire
capability                                          aiming to fulfill future, not present needs
(i.e., initial over-dimensioning); (c) full
PCU in operation by project effectiveness;
(d) Bank support to focus on this issue;
Low agency capacity to implement subprojects  S    Ensure that the PCU can provide technical
assistance to buttress implementation
Ineffective or inefficient allocation of resources    M  (a) National Director to make funding
by PCU                                              decisions based on technical
recommendations and impact analyses; (b)
Use of a procurement agency; (c)
comprehensive operational manual
Overall Risk Rating    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



The risk of implemcneion capacity wskness is, based on pst expaoiencal vary high and a determlnng
fctr to the succegs of fiis project.
3. Pouibie Conbwewawpeci
No siSicant issueGa  ara icpatmd.
G: Mhiz Loa Conditia=
:       I. E.ffeciivenssu Coanditio,ii:
Adoption of opeating mU=ual govonin project activitieji
*  TORs and Shortlis for independent entitis for teclmical, procedwul mnd fimancial reviews
a  Procurem- t aecy hired
Full PCU in operation
Agrsd plan of action for to flst semester
* First Y2K impact study completed
*  Issuance of a resolution by the Cisf fotCabinc of Mnisrii  requiring a1 Feder&L
Government entities to be substantially Y2K-compliat by September 1999
H, Readiness for Implementation
(The enginewerig dsignt documents for the first yoar's ivities u o sWmpiet  dy  r the    of
projectimplementation, p  Not applicable-
L] The procuroment documncts for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the .tart of
project implamentation. Will not be ready de to the emergncy narioae of tA, project.
[I T ? Prnjcrt Implemcncion Plan has bee appraised and found to be reallisic an of aisfatwrjy
quality, Will be ready by qffecveness
3 The foUowing items arm lacking and are discussed under loan cnditions (Section Q);
1. CompliancewithBankPolicies
[ ]   This project complies with all applicAbli Bank policics for emergency operLtion,.
[X    The following exceptions to Bank policies arc recommended for  . see procuremeat
asnex). -be project complies with al other applicable Bank poli
Myrns Alexader                                           ar
County Director                                S         r
Task Team Leadcr



20
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Argentina: Year 2000 Technical Assistance P'roject
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation    _-
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Services provided by the main
Project is not listed in CAS as   sector agencies (e.g., Health,
it responds to a national    Defense, Social Security and
emergency that was recognized  Justice) are not affected by the
as such after the last CAS   Y2K
discussion.
Contribute to ensure the
maintenance of the country's
productive and service systems                                                       _-
Project Development
Objective: To contain or     Problems arising after       GOA reports           The private sector,
remediate the impact of the  December 31, 1999 in         Specializecl         provincial, municipal
Year 2000 disruption.        identified critical functions are  publications, both  governments, NGOs carry
not caused by problems in    official ancl private    out remediation or rescue
computer systems due to the  Mass-market Press    activities complementing
change in the millennium.                         those of the GOA
Outputs:                     Identified systems and critical   Certifications issued   Engagement by the
I. Computer systems and      functions have been remediated  by the UE2000     various institutions and
critical functions Y2K   or rescued before 2000.      Quarterly reports by   private sector to carry out
compatible               Non-remediated systems are    the SFP to Cabinet    remediation or rescue
2. Impact of Y2K evaluated   those of lesser-impact critical   Agency reports  activities for systems and
in critical sectors of the  functions                 reviewed by the SFP   operations not in the
country's productive and    Sectors determined as critical   Copies of      project
service structure        evaluated before end of March  publications and
3. Information on the scope    1999.                      videos
of the impact of the Y2K    Two publicity campaigns in
issue disseminated among   mass-market and specialized
the targeted population  media before 2000.                                 _
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs:
components:                                                                     1. Entities assign
I . Inventory of critical    US$1.5m                      Quarterly progress       adequate counterpart
functions                                              report, aggregating      personnel
2. Project Coordination      US$2.1 m                     PCU and agency        2. Consulting firms and
3. Design, development and   US$31.5m                     reports                  individual consultants
implementation of                                                               available
remediation and rescue                                                      3. Counterpart budgets
activities                                                                      assigned for 1999
4. Information dissemination   US$7.9m                                             (counterpart funds
(best practices, impact                                                         available)
study results, others)



21
Annex 2
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
Component A: Support Activities
Activities carried out by the PCU in support of Y2K remediation. Some of these activities are already on-
going, financed by a PPF.
*  Initial estimates of entities and systems at risk confirmed by teams of selected consultants; common
approaches, tools and methodologies for use by the various entities be identified centrally.
*  Publicity campaign to alert public and private sector entities to the Y2K problem; telephone hot-line
assistance; creation and maintenance of a website with best practices and pointers to appropriate
websites.
*  Technical analysis of diagnostics and evaluation of the economic impact of non-Y2K-compliance, as
an input to decision-making in the selection of agencies for financing.
*  Acquisition, provision and training in the use of tools and methodologies to the Y2K executing units,
in order to profit from best practices and economies of scale.
*  Development of common administrative systems for economies of scale and simplicity.
Component B: Remediation and Rescue
Agencies selected for financing will implement their remediation subprojects, assisted by the PCU,
financed from this Loan (remediation activities are taken before Year 2000 to prevent problems).
Technical Assistance would be provided by the PCU to agencies in carrying out Y2K diagnostics,
technical and impact analysis, preparing implementation plans, preparing terms of reference and
supervision of consulting firms; preparing equipment specifications; etc.
The activities for each agency are expected to be as follows:
*  Diagnosis
*  Technical Analysis
*  Impact Analysis
*  Allocation of funds (Executing Committee)
*  Detailed analysis: identified components, problems
*  Identified remediation options and cost estimates
*  Evaluation and selection of option to use
*  Preparation of remediation plan, comprising activities, inputs, resources, testing plan,
conversion plan, deployment plan, training plan, monitoring indicators, and contingency
plans.
* Implementation of remediation plan aimed at non-Y2K-compliant systems, accomplished via one or
more of the following:
* Replacement of commonly-used systems by standardized software



22
* Upgrade of the hardware/software platform infrastructure if necessary for compliance.
*  Modification of existing systems
*  Quality assurance (verification of successful testing)
*  Implementation of contingency plans (following (a) through (e) above). Contingency plans refer to
rescue activities, i.e., those taken later to recover from previously unidentified problems, from failed
remediation plans, or from non-Y2K-compliant exogenous effects (e.g., non-compliant up-stream
entities).
Component C: Project Administration
Activities proper of a project's coordination and administration, such as:
* Prepare, review and analyze agency non-Y2K-compliance impact studies. Ensure that all subproject
implementation, testing and contingency plans presented by the agencies are adequate and comply
with PCU-issued guidelines
* Send proposed agency selections and supporting documentation to the Bank for approval
* Ensure that all subproject implementation plans are carried out in tirne and within budget, through
monitoring of progress and results and taking appropriate action, including assistance to agencies
requiring it.
e Provide procurement advice to the agencies, maintain the project accounts and prepare quarterly
progress reports for submission to the Bank for review.
* Liaise with a procurement agency for actual procurement; this agency would in addition be
responsible for quarterly advertisements in the Development Business and advertisements in local
newspapers as appropriate, and for the preparation and maintenance of a registry of interested
individual consultants and firms.
- Ensure that a quarterly technical review is carried out by an independent agency agreed with the
Bank.
- Ensure that a quarterly procedural and financial review is carried out by an independent agency
agreed with the Bank.



23
Annex 3
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Comnonent                                        Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million----------- ------
A. Support Activities                                        7.4             0.5          7.9
B. Remediation and Rescue                                    18.0           13.5         31.5
C. Project Coordination                                      2.1             0.0          2.1
Total                                                       27.5            14.0         41.5
PPF Reimbursement                                             1.5                          1.5
Front-end Fee                                                                0.303        0.303
Total Proiect Cost                                          29.0            14.303       43.303



24
Annex 4
Year 2000 Technical Assistance Projlect
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of goods under the project will be conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1996, revised August 1996 and September
1997". The procurement of consultants will follow the Bank's guidelines, "Selection of Consultants by
World Bank Borrower, January 1997 revised September 1997". To expedite implementation, an existing
experienced project administration unit will carry out procurement and train procurement staff.
Procurenmen7t methods (Table A)
A general procurement notice will be made quarterly in the Development Business; all other
advertisement will be done through the local press. The notice will request expressions of interest, which
will be maintained by a procurement firn hired to assist the PCU, and from which long- and short-lists of
consulting firms will be prepared.
For the procurement of goods, International Competitive Bidding will be used for contracts estimated at
US$350,000 or more, and may be used for lesser amounts, although due to the urgent nature of the
operation, and the periodic advertisement in the Development Business, onie month's notice to present
offers will be considered sufficient. National Competitive Bidding may be used for contracts estimated at
less thani US$350,000 and more than US$50,000; Shopping will be used for contracts estimated at equal
to or less than US$50,000.
Conlsultants' assignments other than individual consultants and manpower-intensive service contracts (see
below) will be procured through Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Individual consultants will be
procured in accordance with the procedure in Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. The Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals and Forms of Contract will be used. Manpower-intensive service contracts
involvinig repetitive activities (e.g., file and data-base verification and clean-up) will be procured through
Least Cost Selections Method (LCSM).
Prior reviewt, thresholds (Table B)
Full prior review by the Bank will be carried out for the first three procurement activities of each
procurement type and the first consulting firm procurement for each participating agency. All bidding
documents for contracts above $350,000 (for goods) and US$200,000 (for consulting services) will be
reviewed by the Bank. Prior review for bidding documents for individual consultants with contracts of
less than US$50,000 per year will not be necessary as long as the activity has been defined in a semi-
annual plan of action agreed with the Bank. Other terms of reference and equipment specifications will be
reviewed by the procurement agency and by the Bank through sampling during supervision missions.
Acquisition of miscellaneous supplies and operational expenses of less than $1,500 per contract, up to a
maximum of US$ 100,000 per year for the Project Coordination Unit may be carried out through
comparison of prices without prior review.



25
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds
The loan will be disbursed over a period of 2.5 years. Disbursements will be made against eligible project
expenditures for goods and services. As shown in Table C, goods will be financed at 100% for imported
(foreign) items, 100% for those from ex-factory sources, and 83% for locally purchased items. Consulting
services will be financed at 100% (excluding taxes), and operating costs will also be financed at 100%.
Use of statements of expenses
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against Statements of
Expenditures:
*  US$350,000 for goods
* US$200,000 for consulting firms
*  US$50,000 for individual consulting contracts
For these expenditures under SOE, detailed supporting documents showing evidence of payments to
contractors and suppliers will be kept at the PCU. These documents will be made available to Bank
supervision missions and the annual audits.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish in a bank
satisfactory to the IBRD a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PCU under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the IBRD. The IBRD would, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of US$5
million. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of
the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank
statement. The SA would be audited annual!y by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



26
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procuremenit Arrangements2
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method                            Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB            NCB            Other           N.B.F
1. Goods
Computer Equipment                 8.5           4.5             1.5                              14.5
(8.5)         (2.5)          (1.0)                             (12.0)
2. Services
Consulting Firmns                                                        11.0                               11.0
(9.0)                              (9.0)
Individual Consultants                                                    6.0            1.03                7.0
(1.5)                              (1.5)
File update services                                                      7.0            3.04               10.0
(7.0)                              (7.0)
3. Miscellaneous
PCU supplies and operational                                              0.5                                0.5
expenses
(0.5)                              (0.5)
Front-end Fee                                                             0.303                              0.303
(0.303)                            (0.303)
Total                                  8.5             4.5           26.303          4.0                43.303
(8.5)          (2.5)         (19.303)                           (30.
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under
trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items
listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the
text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Some of the remediation work will more logically be carried out by information technology staff in agencies, familiar with their own
systems. Government is therefore proposing to finance a certain amount of extra-ordinary hours of work, using counterpart funds.
4        See previous footnote.



27
Annex 4, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                                     Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                         (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                       contingencies)
QCBS   QBS    SFB                  LCS         CQ        Other   N.B.F.               _        .
A. Firms                    11.0                               7.0                                3.0           21.0
(9.0)                             (7.0)                                            (16.0)
B. Individuals                          6.0                                                       1.0            7.0
___ ___   (1.5)     __  _  _    _  _  _     _  _  _    _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _(1.5)
Total    11.0         6.0                    7.0                                4.0           28.0
(9.0)      (1.5)                  (7.0)                                            (17.5)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



28
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods snd Prior Reviews
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)              Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                                US $ millions
1. Goods
Computer Equipment           <50,000         National Shopping,
Computer Equipment         < 350,000         NCB or ICB                          4.5
Computer Equipment         > 350,000         ICB                                 6.5
Computer Equipment   >$100,000 or >20% of  Sole-Source                           2.0
components            full replacement value
2. Services
Individual Consultants      2 50,000         QBS                                 0.5
Consulting Firms           2 200,000         QCBS                                6.0
File Update Services       2 200,000         LCS                                 5.0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      24.5
Thresholds generally differ by countly and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation' and contact the Regional
Procurement Adviser for guidance.



29
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
Goods                                           12.0      100%  foreign, 83%
local ex-factory and
83% local purchase
Services                                        16.0      100% excluding
taxes
PCU Supplies and Miscellaneous                   0.5      100% excluding
Operational Expenses                                      taxes
PPF Refinancing                                  1.5
Front-end Fee                                    0.303
Total            30.303



30
Annex 5
Year 2000 Technical
Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and S,chedule
A. Project Budget                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$95,000             UIS$60,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          7                     5
First Bank mission (identification)             5/11/1998             5/11/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      11/2/1998            11/9/1999
Negotiations                                     11/9/1998            11/24/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   1/15/1999             _/_/19
Prepared by: Secretariat of Public Function, Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
Preparation assistance: PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Luis-Jos5 Mejia                 Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist
Maria Victoria Lister                   Quality Assurance Officer
Herman Nissenbaum                             Consultant
Daniel Hurrell                        Information Technology
Ludovico Tassoni                        Jr. Operations Assistant



31
Annex 6 Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
N/A
B. Bank Staff Assessments
N/A
C. Other
Selection criteria for selecting agencies for financing
PCU Training Plan
Operational Manual (after Effectiveness)
Miscellaneous Y2K and support documentation
*Including electronic files.



ANNEX 7
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
Operations Portfolio
Difference          Last PSR
)etween expectet Supervision Rating b/
and actual
disbursements ai    Development
Proiect    Fiscal         .                                  Original Amount in USS Millions                          Implementation
ID       Year   Borrower           Purpose         IBRD    IDA   Cancellations  Undisburse   Orig  rm Rev' Objectives Progress
Number of Closed Proiects:
Active Proiects
AR-PE-5968       1987 SEGBA        SEGBA V                  276        0              0         55.62    55.61      0      S          S
AR-PE-6005       1991 REPUBLIC OF A PROVINC DEV PROJ        200        0              0          7.51     7.49      0      S          S
AR-PE-5977       1991 ARGENTINE RE\WTR SUPPLY II            100        0             36          19.9   55.91   19.91      S          S
AR-PE-6036      1993 GOVERNMENT YACYRETA II                 300        0              0          1.01       1       0      S          S
AR-PE-6003       1993 GOVT OF ARGE RD MAINT & REHAB S(      340        0              0         30.23    20.87      0     NA          S
AR-PE-6062      1994 MIN OF ECONO CAPITAL MKT TA            8.5        0              0          2.37    2.35       0      S          S
AR-PE-6025       1994 GOVT OF ARGE MTNAL CHILD HLTH &       100        0              0         11.04     5.74      0     HS          HS
AR-PE-6060       1995 GOVT OFARGEMUNIC DEVT II              210        0              0        158.24    -19.9      0     HS          HS
AR-PE-5992       1995 GOVT OF ARGE SECONDARY ED I           190        0              0        131.94   110.32      0      S          U
AR-PE-6018       1995 ARGENTINE RE PROV DEV II              225        0              0        192.56    24.24      0      U          S
AR-PE-45687      1996 REP. OF ARGRI H. INSURANCE TA          25        0              0          5.11    -0.32      0     HS          HS
AR-PE-40909      1996 REP. OF ARGEI H. INSURANCE REFOF      350        0              0          100      125       0     HS          S
AR-PE-38883      1996 REPUBLIC OF$ENT.EXPORT DV.            38.5       0              0          18.9   18.89    1.34      S          S
AR-PE-34091      1996 REP OF ARGEI HIGHER ED REFORM         165        0              0        120.51    81.44   59.52     S          S
AR-PE-6055       1996 GOVT. OF ARGI MINING SCTR DEVT         30        0              0          6.36    -2.54      0     HS          S
AR-PE-6030       1996 REPUB OF ARC PROVCL HLTH SCTR C    101.4         0              0         84.49    51.34      0      S          U
AR-PE-6040       1996 GOVERNMENT FORESTRY/DV                 16        0              0         12.13     0.64      0      S          S
AR-PE-6057       1996 GOVT OF ARGI SECNDARY ED 2           115.5       0              0        100.55    49.39  -14.95     S          S
AR-PE-37049      1996 GOVT OF ARGE PUB.INV.STRENGTHG         16        0              0         15.32    10.32      0      U          U



AR-PE-40904      1996 REPUBLIC OF P BANK REFORM               500        0               0          166      166        0      S           S
AR-PE46821       1997 GOVT.OF ARG PENSION TA                   20        0               0         15.37     2.74       0      S           S
AR-PE-43418      1997 REPUBLIC OF PAIDS PREV.&STD CTR          15        0               0         10.41    -0.35       0     HS          HS
AR-PE-39584      1997 GOVT OF ARGE B.A.URB.TSP                200        0               0        177.66    21.67       0      S           S
AR-PE-6052       1997 GOVT OF ARGE FLOOD PROTECTION           200        0               0        195.37    16.05       0      S           S
AR-PE-5980       1997 GOVT OF ARGE PROV ROADS                 300        0               0       296.94    56.93        0      S           S
AR-PE-6010       1997 GOA           PROVAG DEVT I             125        0               0        122.15      7.5       0      S           S
AR-PE-6059       1997 ARGENTINE REMTL.CHD.HTH.2               100        0               0         90.15     1.14       0      S          HS
AR-PE-40808      1997 GOA           N.FOREST/PROTC           19.5        0               0         18.13     -0.7       0      S           S
AR-PE-55935      1998 GOVERNMENT EL NINO EMERGENCY             42        0               0           42       14        0      S           S
AR-PE-55477      1998 GOVT OF ARGE MINING TA                 39.5        0               0          39.5    12.94       0      S           S
AR-PE-51695      1998 GOVERNMENT P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                75        0               0           50       25        0      S           S
AR-PE-51693      1998 GOVERNMENT P.RFM(SALTA)                  75        0               0           30        0        0     HS          HS
AR-PE-50713      1998 MINISTRY OF E MODEL COURT DEV.            5        0               0            5      0.75       0      S           S
AR-PE-6050       1998 REP OF ARGEIK POLLUTION MGT.             18        0               0           18      1.16       0      S          S
AR-PE-6006       1998 MIN. OF ECONC P.RFM(TUCUMAN)            100        0               0           45        0        0      S          U
AR-PE-6041       1998 GOVERNMENT SMALL FARMER DV.              75        0              0           72.5    13.56       9      S           S
AR-PE-49269      1998 ARGENTINE RE SOC PROTEC 3               284        0               0          284        0        0
AR-PE-50714      1998REPUBLICOFPSECOND.ED3                    119        0               0          119      86.5       0      S           S
AR-PE-51694      1998 GOVERNMENT P.RFM(S.JUAN)                 50        0               0           40       25        0      S          S
AR-PE-52590      1998 REPUBLIC OF P NAT HWY REHAB&MAI         450        0               0          450   205.63        0      S           S
AR-PE-6058       1999 REPUBLIC OF A SOC.PROTECT 4           90.75        0              0         90.75        0        0     HS          HS
Total                                                     5,709.65       0             36       3,451.72  1,253.31    74.82
Closed
Active Projects              Proiects                     Total
Total
Disbursed
(IBRD and
IDA)                                            2,221.93          7,343.55                      9,565.48
of which has
been repaid                                     235.63           3,238.85                     3,474.48
Total now
held by IBRD
and IDA       :                                  5,438.01         4,105.42                      9,543.43
Amount sold                                            0             12.79                        12.79



of which
repaid                                                                 12.79                         12.79
Totai
Undisbursed                                       3,451.72              0.69                      3,452.41
1. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
2. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S =
satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNE 8
Argentina at a glance                                                            9/16/98
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       America   middle-
Argentina  & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    35.2       494      571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                8,570     3,880    4,520   1
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                  302.0    1,917      2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (PO)                                     1.1       1.7       1.5     GNP 
Labor force (%)                                      1.9      2.3       1.9      p                             Grcss
pier                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                     enroilment
Poverty (% of population below national poventy line)  26
Urban population (% of tota population)              88        74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     73        70       70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             22        32       30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            2                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               64        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  4        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  107    111       107             Argentina
Male                                               ..        ..                       Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             .._.._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                         51.2   110.9    298.7    322.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP              30.7    17.5      18.5      18.9                    Trd
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           9.2     8.2       8.9       8.7                     rade
Gross domestic savingslGOP                 34.0    19.3      18.1      18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                 34.1    14.8      16.5      16.4
Current account balance/GDP                 1.3    -2.6       -1.3     -2.9     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                       0.9     3.3       1.9       2.0     sIinvestment
Total debt/GDP                             18.1    47.3      32.4      32.4     Svn
Total debt service/exports                 34.4    82.8      47.2      49.3
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..      ..      29.5
Present value of debt/exports                ..      ..    277.7         ..
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97    1996       1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.6      3.8      4.8      8.6       4.0        -Argentna
GNP per capita                    -1.9      2.9     3.7       7.1       3.1              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      2.8      8.5     6.7       9.1       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      40
Agriculture                                 8.2      7.8       7.7      7.3       T
Industry                                   50.9    37.4      35.5      36.4    20
Manufacturing                            39.1    27.4       24.7     24.8
Services                                   41.0    54.8      56.8      56.3      0     92   93   9A   w    9    97
Private consumption                        56.6             .        ..        -20
General government consumption              9.4       .GDI                                             OGDP
Imports of goods and services               5.9     6.3       9.2       9.4
197646  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 1.2      2.8       3.0      3.3   10r
Industry                                   -1.5     3.5       5.0      11.2     80
Manufacturing                            -1.3      3.0       5.3      9.2    60
Services                                    2.1      4.1       4.9      7.7    40
Private consumption                          ..20
General government consumption                    *._                                                         _
Gross domestic investment                  4.8       7.5       8.8     26.5    -207    92   93   94
Imports of goods and services               1.1    19.5       18.2     27.1            -    Exports    -       Imports
Gross national product                     -0.4     4.2        4.6      8.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-oroup averaae. If data are missinm. the diamond will
be incomplete.



