                                                                                                       34556
                                               Argentina
                                     State ModernizationProject
                                           LoanNo. 4423-AR
                    ProposedThird Amendment to the LoanAgreement


 1.       This Memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the
 Loan Agreement (LA) for the Argentina State Modernization Project (Loan No. 4423-AR).

 2.       The purpose of the proposed amendment i s to modify the project design and the
 project development objective (PDO) of the original operation and its comprehensive
 approach to make it consistent with, and supportive of, the Government's incremental
 strategy for strengthening the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of Argentina's services
 in selected agencies and strengthen the management tools of selected public entities.
 Following the economic crisis in 2002-2003, the new administration has opted for an
 approach of "strategic incrementalism" in its efforts to improve governance and public
 sector performance, rather than a comprehensive public reform approach as envisioned in
 the restructuring of the Loan in 2001. This approach is based on the promotion of "islands
 of innovation"' that may provide replicable examples for the undertaking of effective
 governance reforms. In this context, the Government and the Bank agreed to a series of
 Action Plans (for CY2004 and for CY2005-2006) to execute the State Modernization
 Project to reflect this new incremental strategy and improve overall project implementation

 3.       The proposed amendment would also provide for the introduction of a new
 component that i s fully consistent with the new revised Project Development Objective of
 the Loan and consists of the initiation of the secondphase of the Social and Fiscal National
 Identification System (SINTyS) program. This programhas been supported under an APL
 operation, the first phase of which was successfully implemented under Loan 4459-AR.
 The initiation of the second phase of SINTyS under the State Modernization Project will
permitthe partialutilization of some of the savings that have been generated as a combined
result o f (a) the reduction of the project scope of the original State Modernization Project,
 and (ii) the impact of the Argentine peso devaluation. It i s expected that once the proposed
CNCPS2 component has been completed, the Government will request the Bank to
continue its support for the development of SINTyS under the original APL. The
development objective of SINTyS' Phase Ihas been fully achieved and the project i s rated
"satisfactory."     The SINTyS activities to be financed under the State Modernization Loan
constitute high governmental priorities and are in line with the original and revised Project
Development Objective, thus, are eligible for financing with the cost savings that have
been generated under this Loan pursuant to OP13.25 paragraph 2(b).



'"Islands of innovation" or "enclave reforms" means those special-purpose bodies or areas inthe public
sector insulated from the rest of the public administration with incentives, conditions and opportunities for
reform.
  For the purpose of this amendment the SINTyS activities will be carried out by the Consejo Nacional de
Coordinaci6n de Politicas Sociales(CNCPS) but by the same Project ImplementationUnit which is has been
in -charge of implementing the SINTyS project.


                                                                                                             1

4.     The original Loan amount for Loan 4423-AR was for US30.3 million. Of this
amount, US$10.2 million has already been disbursed under the Loan (through end-2004)
and an additional US$11.1 million will be utilized in financing the CY2005-2006 Action
Plan for the execution of the incrementalist strategy. A total of US$8.0 million would be
reallocated for the purpose of beginning the Phase I1 of SINTyS. In addition, the
Government has requestedthat US$1 million remain unallocated.

5.     The restructuring of the Loan and the incorporation of the new component i s
consistent with the objectives of the portfolio management plan that was presented to the
Board inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussedinApril 2004.

6.     It is also consistent with the development objectives and implementation status of
the two Projects. A review of the two loans is helpfulinthis context.

      a.    The Argentina State Modernization Loan (4423-AR) was originally approved
            by the Board in December 1998 for US$30.3 million as an operation to assist
            Y2K preparation activities. The Loan was restructured inJuly 2001 to support
            an ambitious administrative reform of federal social programs inthe context of
            a more pressing and overarching effort to strengthen the fiscal position of
            federal, provincial and local governments. The economic and social crisis
            beginningin late 2001 and the political and institutional instability that ensued
            thereafter has limited the possibilities for the project to achieve its intended
            ambitious original objectives. The present administration has opted for a less
            ambitious approach with its incremental strategy in bringing about the
            institutional and organizational reform of the state, an approach that the Bank
            has been supporting since 2003. Based on its original objectives, the Loan i s
            currently rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in terms of its PDO and Moderately
            Satisfactory in terms of its Overall Implementation Progress. It i s expected
            that the revision of the PDO (as part of this amendment request) and
            streamlining of the activities to be carried out under the project better reflect
            the policy goals of the Argentine administration inthe areaof state reform, and
           the successful implementationof the CY2004 Action Plan agreed between the
           Bank and the Government will provide the basis for an upgrading of the
           project ratings to Satisfactory in the next ISR. The project closing date has
           been extended twice, most recently in December 2004 for a period of two
           years untilDecember 2006.

     b.    The Social and Fiscal National Identification Svstem (SINTyS) Loan, (APL
           Loan 4459-AR) was approved by the Board in April 1999 to help improve the
           impact of social services and fiscal programs inArgentina through the creation
           of a national identification program and institutionalized information
           exchange. The implementation of SINTyS was originally envisioned in three
           phases: (i)  demonstration (ii)  expansion and (iii)consolidation.       Phase I,
           completed under the US$10 million original loan, has been successfully
           implemented and is already having positive impacts. All of the triggers to
           advance to Phase 11have been met, and all of the participating provinces have



                                                                                           2

             signed contracts with SINTyS to move forward to the second phase. Phase I1
             will be initiatedunder the State Modernization Loan to ensure an effective use
             of savings under this Loan in line with the policy guidelines applicable to the
             use of project savings, i.e., for high priority purposes and for activities within
             the project's original development objectives.

      c.     The total cost of Phase 11, which will finance the institutional, legal, and
             technological infrastructure needed to consolidate the system, i s expected to be
             approximately US$20 million. The proposed amendment would provide for
             the initial US$8 million to initiate the execution of Phase II.   The balance of
             this financing would be provided as part of the second phase APL that had
            been originally envisaged for the establishment and development of SINTyS.
            Approval of this amendment would ensure that SINTyS has the necessary
            funds to initiate the second phase of the program without implementation
            interruptionsprior to the secondphase of the APL under the new CAS planned
            for 2006.

      d.    Inaddition to the consistency of the SINTyS objectives with those pursued
            under the original State Modernization Loan, there i s a strong development
            rationale for linking both operations.          SINTyS responds to important
            weaknesses in Argentina's capacity to generate, store and exchange basic data
            on the beneficiaries and providers of the country's social service programs.
            This is, in turn, a serious impediment to the improved efficiency and integrity
            of the public sector which i s the overall objective that i s being pursued by the
            State Modernization Loan.        With approximately 78 percent of all public
            expenditures by federal and provincial governments in Argentina directed to
            social services, addressing these weaknesses will be fundamental in
            strengthening overall fiscal stability, improved public sector delivery of
            services and improvingpublic confidence ingovernment.


                              PART I BACKGROUND
                                        -

      Strategic Context and Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy Goal

7.      Argentina continues to emerge from a very deep economic and social crisis. In
2001 and 2002 output collapsed by 20 percent. The percentage of poor spiked to some 57
percent of the population, while the number of extreme poor doubled. Unemployment
reached 24 percent, with huge job losses in both the formal and informal sectors. Key
social indicators, such as infant mortality, also deteriorated substantially for the first time
in30 years.

8.      Over the past two years, the economy has rebounded strongly. Sparked initially by
increased exports and then by a gradual expansion of consumption spendingfrom the very
low points in mid-2002, a demand-led recovery has started to take hold. Economic growth
in2003 reached 8.8 percent, only to be exceededin2004 at 9 percent. Expectations are for
growth to moderate in 2005, but remain solid at 7 - 8 percent. Notably, this performance


                                                                                             3

 has been supported by prudent macroeconomic policies. Fiscal performance has been
 particularly strong, with the Government in 2004 recording a consolidated primary surplus
 of over 5 percent including the provinces. Inflation has been held under control over past
 two years, though price pressures re-emerged in2005.

 9.       Sustaining the economic recovery and ensuring that growth benefits the poorest i s a
 top priority and major challenge for the Government.         If it is to meet this challenge,
 Argentina will need to establish an environment that encourages investment, creates jobs
 and instills confidence in the future. Inthis context, no effort will be more important than
 strengthening the transparency, accountability and efficiency of the public sector.

 10.      The overarching goal of the Bank's CAS i s to contribute to reducingthe extent and
 severity of poverty as Argentina continues to recover. In this framework, the focus of the
 Bank's program is to support the Government's efforts toward (ij sustained economic
 growth with equity, (iij social inclusion, and (iii)  improved governance. With regard to
 governance, the CAS emphasizes improving the effectiveness of public administration at
 the provincial level, fighting corruption and increasing the transparency of public
 institutions. The CAS calls for the Bank and the Government's existing programs in these
 fields to undertake new initiatives in response to opportunities and needs that may arise.
 Based on the Government's objectives for public sector reform, this amendment aims at
 promoting activities designed to increase transparency and efficiency in various
 institutions and activities to make them more accountable and to improve civic trust in the
 state.

                Government's New Strategy for Public Sector Reform

 11.      Under the post-crisis political and institutional environment, the Government has
moved away from pursuingthe ambitious comprehensive reform agenda envisioned when
the Loan was restructured in July 2001, and instead has adopted a strategy of "strategic
incrementalism," focusing on modernization of selected agencies and the implementation
of specific management tools. The objective i s to demonstrate progressive improvement in
key public operations and services to help generate broader demand for further reforms
elsewhere inthe public sector.

12.      The Government's implementation of the State Modernization Project, and the
CY2004 Action Plan agreed with the Bank to improve project performance, reflects this
new incremental strategy. The Project has shown important improvements in specific
areas.    For instance, the Citizens' Cards Programs have established specific quality
standards for the services delivered by 30 public agencies, which represent 40 percent of
the National Public Administration. The standards are subject to periodic evaluations
through participatory mechanisms as citizen audits, focal groups and polls. The "E-
Government and Administrative Procedures Program" i s facilitating citizen's access to
information through the incorporation of administrative procedures to the Government
Portal, Currently 212 administrative procedures from 20 public agencies can be accessed
through the portal (www.nobiernoelectronico.ar): Finally, the first phase of the "State
Procurement Program" scope includes electronic access and processing of all purchases



                                                                                            4

 below $25,000 pesos argentinos, which covers the total number of Government supply
 purchases of goods and services for recurrent operation (excluding procurement for
 investment programs). The improvement has also been important with respect to loan
 disbursements. Cumulative disbursements amount to US$12.1 million; US$4.9 million of
 this has taken place since January 2004, leaving US$18.2 million currently undisbursed.
 Bringing the project fully in line with the new incremental approach to state modernization
 beingpursuedby the current Government requires modification of development objectives.
 The proposed amendment will achieve this.


                          PARTI1 PROPOSEDAMENDMENT
                                    -

 13.     The amendment proposes to: (i) the Project Development Objective, some
                                            modify
 Key Performance Indicators and Monitoring Mechanisms; (ii)cancel one project
 component not aligned with the new strategy as well as streamlining of a number of
 activities; (iii)
                 incorporate the initial stages of the second phase (the expansion phase) of
 the SINTyS project and assign to it US$S.O million of loan proceeds; (iv) establish
 institutional arrangements for the operation of the CNCPS component; and (v) reallocate
 US$1 million of the remaining Loan funds as unallocated funds. After the restructuring,
 the loan funds would be allocated as follows (inmillions):

                  Commitments to 2004                           I    US$10.2
                  SMP (of which USs1.9 has beendisbursed)            US$11.1
                 LNewCNCPS Component                                  USSS.0 I
                  Unallocated Funds                             II    US$l.O
                  Total Loan amount                                  US$30.3

 14.     The original Loan amount for Loan 4423-AR was for US$30.3 million.
Approximately US$10.2 million has already been disbursed under the Loan (through end
2004). Modifyingthe D O of the Loan to better support the Argentine's approach to public
sector reform, and the choice of measures necessary to achieve these goals (including
cancellation of some measures), will require a reallocation of funds. In this context,
US$11.1 million will be used to advance outstanding elements of the Loan, as agreedwith
the Government as part of Project Action Plan for CY2005 and 2006 (of which US$1.9
million has already been disbursed).        The modification of the original comprehensive
reform approach reduces the scope of the project's activities to selected public areas and,
as a consequence, a total of US$S.O million can be reallocated for the purpose of beginning
the second phase of SINTyS. In addition, the Government requests that the remaining
US$1millionbeconsidered an unallocated amount.

15.      Project Development Objectives, Key Performance Indicators and Monitoring
Mechanisms. The original PDO i s to      " (a) to assist the Borrower, on an urgent basis, to
prevent or minimize the disruption in the Borrower's social and economic infrastructure
that would be caused by the failure of critical central government systems to process data
properly after December 31, 1999 due to the Year 2000 (Y2K) problem; (b) to assist the
Borrower in designing and implementing a program to modernize the non-financial public
sector in Argentina at the federal level; and (c) to strengthen the institutional capacity at


                                                                                           5

the Borrower's provincial level". The specific objectives of the PDO components (b) and
 (c) were to enhance efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the national
 administrationand service delivery of key agencies. To achieve this goal, as established in
mid-2001, the strategy called for the implementation of a comprehensive reform
throughout the entire national administration. Although the project has met important
benchmarks, the severity of the crisis and the Government's new approach to public sector
reform has made the comprehensive strategy unrealistic. As a result, some of the previous
project indicators-increasing tax collection or reforms in the Federal Public Revenue
Administration (AFP) and the National Social Security Administration (ANSeS)-now
have less pertinence within the project as the planned reforms were executed through other
projects or have already been fulfilled.

 16.    Improvements in the efficiency and transparency of public institutions will
continue to be essential to strengthen public confidence and build the foundation for
 sustainable, widely shared economic growth. Inthis context, the proposed restructuring of
Loan 4423-AR i s based on a particular sequencing of important and incremental steps.
The idea behind this i s that demonstrable progress can only be achieved in a limited
number of areas. But once a certain level of transparency and accountability is achievedin
each of those "islands" of modernization, they can create demand to expand the strategy to
other services.

 17.    The revised PDO is: "The objective of the Project i s to implement the Borrower's
strategy to strengthen public sector management tools to improve transparency, and civil
society participation as well as increase the efficiency and quality of management by
selected areas of public services."

18.     Cancellation of the Part D: Streamlining the Macro-Structure of the National
Government. The objective of this component was to streamline the structure of the non-
financial public sector of the Government. As the new Government's approach will be
focused on specific organizations, the original approach i s no longer part of the project
objectives. The remaining funds assignedto this component will be reallocated.

19.    New Part H (CNCPS Component): The Social and Fiscal National
Identification System (SINTyS) was approved by the Board in April 1999 to help
improve the impact of social services and fiscal programs in Argentina through the
creation of a national identification program and institutionalized information exchange.
The implementation of SINTyS was originally envisioned in three phases: (i)
demonstration (ii)  expansion and (iii)consolidation. Phase I,  completed under the US$lO
million first phase APL, has been successfully implemented and i s already having positive
impacts. Phase I1i s ready to begin implementation. All of the triggers to advance to Phase
I1have been met, and all of the participating provinces have subscribed agreements with
SINTyS to move forward to the second phase. The Government has indicated that,
although it i s eager to advance the work of Phase 11, it can not move forward without new
resources and the US$2 billion CAS envelope has been fully allocated to other projects, as
agreed with the Government. This explains the proposal to include initial funding for




                                                                                          6

Phase I1under the State Modernization project. For more information on this component
please see Annex A attached.

20.     The total cost of Phase I1 of the SINTyS Project, which will finance the
institutional, legal, and technological infrastructure needed to consolidate the system, i s
expected to be approximately US$20 million. As agreed with the Government, if the
proposed amendment i s approved, the balance of this financing would be provided in
support of a stand-alone project to complete the objectives of Phase I1of SINTyS Project
as part of the next CAS, planned to be presented to the Board in 2006. Approval of the
amendment would ensure that SINTyS has the necessary funds to initiate the second phase
of the program without interruptions prior beginning implementation of the second phase
of the APL under a new CAS.

21.     The development basis for reallocating resources from the State Modernization
Loan to the initial stage of the expansion phase of the SINTyS APL i s clear. Both loans
identify important weaknesses in Argentina's capacity to generate, store and exchange
basic data on the beneficiaries and providers of social service programs as a serious
impediment to the efficiency and integrity of the public sector more generally. With
approximately 78 percent of all public expenditures by federal and provincial governments
in Argentina directed to social services, addressing these weaknesses will be fundamental
to strengthening overall fiscal stability and improving public confidence in government.

22.     New Institutional Arrangements. The components of the project (other than Part
Hof the Project pertainingto SINTys related activities) will continue to beexecuted bythe
Chief of Cabinet through its Secretariat for the Modernization of the State. The CNCPS
component will be executed by the Presidency of the Republic through its National
Council for Coordination of Social Policies. In this connection, the Loan provisions and
contents will be applied to both government counterparts and PCUs, as appropriate, with
the following modifications:

      a.    Modification of the arrangementsfor Project execution (ARTICLE III). The
            Sub-secretary for Public Management under the Chief of Cabinet will
            maintain in operation its Project Coordination Unit. The National Council for
            Coordination of Social Policies will continue to maintain the Project
            Coordination Unit that has been managing the first phase of SINTyS. Both
            units will operate independently and will be responsible for their respective
            components allocating to each governmental agency the specific responsibility
            for the execution of the project, including compliance with the financial
            covenants of the Loan.

      b.   Modification of Schedule I: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan. The
            allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each category of expenditure will be
           modified to incorporate the new component, and each PCU will have its own
            special account to manage its disbursements. Separate audit reports for each
            special account will be produced. Modifications include sections A: General
           and B: Special Account.



                                                                                        7

       c.    Modification of Schedule 2: Description of the Project. The proposal includes
             the new PDO, the cancellation of "Part D: Streamliningthe Macro-Structure of
             the National Government", the streamlining of activities and a general
             description of the second phase of the SINTyS Project as well as the technical
             description of the activities that will be carried out under the new component
             "Social and Fiscal Identification System (SINTyS) Second Phase" in the State
             ModernizationProject (See Annex A).

       d.    Modification of Annex Key Pei$omance Indicators.               A new "Results
             Framework and Monitoring Matrix" and a new "Arrangements for Results
             Monitoring Matrix", are in line with the remaining and new components, as
             well with the activities agreed with the Government in its Action Plan for
             CY2005-2006

       e.    Modification of Schedule 4: Procurement. There would be changes insome of
             the thresholds for nationalbiddingand selection of consultants.


                               PART I11-RATIONALE

23.     Duringthe 1990s,Argentina started various State reform processes. The majority
of those reforms did little to increase significantly the transparency, efficacy or efficiency
of public institutions. These shortcomings contributed to the economic and social crisis
beginning in late 2001, and contributed to undermined government effectiveness in both
the policy area and with respect to its ability to deliver public services.

24.     The current Administration has opted for an incremental approach to public sector
reform that seeks to introduce discrete and gradual improvements in selected public areas.
Their improvement i s expected to generate broader demand for further reforms elsewhere
in the public sector. The successful implementation of the SINTyS Project has been a
good illustration of incremental reform that made significant strides toward public sector
modernization in Argentina.      During the demonstration phase, the benefits from the
SINTyS project (Phase I) exceeded the original expectations. It i s estimated that,
                            have
since its inception, the SINTyS project has yielded benefits of more than US$133 million
(compared to US$41 million estimated during appraisal). The proposed amendment seeks
to support the shift away from the comprehensive approach to public sector reform and
assist the Government in implementing the discrete measures they are undertaking in
selectedpublic agencies of which SINTyS constitutes a successful experience.



                         PART IV BENEFITSAND RISKS
                                    -
25.     The main risk of the implementation of the restructured project i s the possible lack
of adequate coordination among the project's counterparts, especially between the Chief of
Cabinet Office and the National Council for Coordination of Social Policies. To mitigate



                                                                                            8

this risk, specific implementationarrangements have been agreedto identify anddefine the
responsibilities of both agencies.

26.     One of the main project risks identifiedearlier was that the planned changes of the
legal, policy and institutional framework would not be acted upon as the crisis of the last
few years obstructed the implementation of the comprehensive reform envisioned in the
project. This risk i s now reduced since the project will be focused on specific public
institutions and areas. Moreover, the Government has shown strong commitment to its
new strategy for public sector reform.       Simultaneously, some past reforms are being
continued, e.g., the implementation of the new procurement system, electronic government
and citizen charters.     The fulfillment of the CY2004 Action Plan, as well as the
performance of loan disbursements, demonstrates strengthened government commitment.
Finally, civil society participation will continue to create additional demands and support
for reform from outside the state apparatus.

27.     Another risk identifiedi s the intensive use of individual consultants in the project.
It was proposed and accepted by the government that a more in-depth analysis of the
detailed work program for the activities to be carried out by individual consultants be
undertaken. The objective would be to assess whether the number of individuals to be
hired i s consistent with the volume of work to be delivered and to determine if the most
efficient way of carrying out the activities i s the hiring of individual consultants or if
another method of procurement would be a better option. It was agreed that pending the
results of this review the Bank could request the revision of the procurement plan.    It was
also agreed that JGM will (i)  implement a system to control attendance to the work place
and (ii) continue to select individuals through the comparison of at least three (3) CVs.
The review i s presently on-going and should be completed shortly.




                                                                                           9

                                                                                   ANNEX A


                                        Component H
                Social and Fiscal NationalIdentification System (SINTyS)
                                        Second Phase


 1. Component Objective

 The objective of the SINTyS project (Loan No. 4459-AR) was to identify social and/or
 fiscal attributes of physical and legal persons in Argentina, through a sustainable
 information exchange system, aimed at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and impact
 of social services and fiscal programs at all levels of government in Argentina. The
 implementation of SINTyS was originally envisioned in three stages: demonstration,
 expansion and consolidation. During the demonstration phase (Le., Phase I), which was
 completed under the US$lO.O million original loan, the project successfully demonstrated
 the viability of the concept and obtained tangible results over a limited but representative
number of institutions and programs. Phase II,will be partially financed under the
restructured State Modernization Loan (Loan No. 4423-AR), and will focus on building
the institutional, legal and technological infrastructure needed to ensure the successful
expansion of the system. Finally, the consolidation phase (i.e., Phase 111) will focus on
ensuring the sustainability of SINTyS through the institutionalization of the program and
continuing innovation inthe provision of services.

Specifically, the overall objective of this Phase 11i s to achieve efficient, more formal
exchange mechanisms and to expand the number of participants, particularly at the
provincial level. Therefore, this phase will concentrate on building the institutional, legal
and technological infrastructure needed to ensure the successful consolidation of the
system. The specific objectives of the Phase I1are: i)to establish a federal information
network at the national and provincial levels, also accessible by the municipalities, that
shall include, as fully independent nodes, at least four provinces and a national SINTyS
center; ii)to continue to provide services for its stakeholders such as the One-Stop
Institutional Window (Ventanilla Unica de Organisrnos; VUO);iii)to implement security
measures to ensure the protection of data use and privacy; and iv) to make substantial
strides toward inserting SINTyS permanently within Argentina's public sector at the
national and provincial levels, an objective that will be consolidated during Phase 111.

The territorial decentralization of the program at the provincial level i s of prominent
importance in Phase 11.The decentralization strategy that has been adopted i s based on the
establishment of Provincial Coordination Units (Unidades Coordinadoras Provinciales;
PCUs) that will replicate the SINTyS model at the provincial level. During this Phase, the
project will transfer the ownership of the pilot provincial nodes to the respective provinces.
The institutionalization of the project has as a key objective the decentralization of the
current model to the provinces by providing the necessary knowledge and technical
assistance. The nodes will be fully owned and operated by the provinces with a single
national node (if needed) with a policy and regulatory SINTyS office in the National


                                                                                           10

Coordination Council for Social Policies (ConsejoNacional de Coordinacion de'Politicas
Sociales; CNCPS). Provincial SINTyS willalso be available to selected municipalities.

2. Overviewof the SINTySmodel and progress made during Phase             I

The lack of a national e-Government ICT    and (information communication
                                                           and
technologies) strategy hasbeenakey          factor contributingtothelack      of acommon
framework for the effective interconnection ofIT systemsand exchange of dataamong
government agencies?both within and across national and provinciallevels of government.
In this regard, Argentina's Social and Fiscal National IdentificationSystem (Programadel
Sistema de                 Nacional Tributario y Social; SINTyS) has taken the first steps
to ameliorate this shortcoming by supporting the development of asharedinformation
exchange network. Initiated in 1999 with the support of Loan No. 4459-AR, SINTyS is
aimed at fostering the systematic exchange of informationacrossdatabases at national,
provincial andmunicipal levels of government.Itsultimate objective is toprovide the
exchange and crosschecking of information amonggovernment               agencies within the
SINTyS model,virtuallylinking        existing systems(e.g.personnel?    social security, tax,
cadastre data banks) amongthemselves.

The demonstration stage has been,successfully completed, as the projecthasachieved
demonstrable results over a representative number of institutions and          programs.
Specifically, during its demonstration stage, SINTyS has effectivelyobtained proof of the
validity of the overall concept, generated critical mass of activity, and demonstrated the
substantial benefits-that   is, improvements in efficiency effectiveness andimpact of
social services and fiscal programsatall       levels ofgovernment-thatresultfrom        the
systematic exchange of information across multiple government entities. Some of the
specific achievementsof the implementation of Phase I include:

      e     There are currently 234governmententities currently participating in SINTyS,
            including 24 entities at the national level (incl.AF", ANSES and RENAPER),
             177 entities at theprovincial level, and 11 entities at the municipallevel.
            SINTyS signed agreements with the principalauthorities of the nationaland
            provincial government agencies,with a totalof 52 agreements.
      e     The exchange of information currently beingperformedbySINTyS
            contributes to the integration of 500 individualdatabases. It is important to
            note that the exchange of infomation is now being done bySINTyS as
            opposed to by the individual government entities connecting online with each
            other.    Once the SINTyS model is fully operational,       SINTyS not
                                                                               will
            participate directly in the exchange of information,focusing instead solely on
            providing the normative and organizational framework. Therefore the role of
            SINTyS will change accordingly during Phase 11and III by becoming part of
            the provincial governments' structure
      e     There has been considerableprogress since SINTyS' modest beginnings, when
            it performed mostly ad hoc exchanges of information among a small groupof
            government agencies.        Presently, SINTyS  performs
                                                                  an
                                                                  average             of 60
            exchanges of information eachmonth,havingdevelopedacomprehensive
             strategyto maximize its impact bothon the expenditureand revenue sides.


                                                                                          11

       0       A Technical Board (mesa te`cnica) with representatives from AFIP, ANSES
                and RENAPER has been constituted to help buildconsensus among the major
               players at the national level over key technical issues. An important outcome
               of this technical board has been an Agreement of Understanding (10 Sept.
                2004) subscribed between the legal advisors of these three key government
               entities that delineates the basic strategy for the exchange of information
               between them.
       0       All of the 23 provincial jurisdictions, with the exception of one, have
               subscribed agreements formalizing their incorporation to SINTyS. Four
               provinces (Mendoza, Salta, Santa Fe and Jujuy) have already established the
               provincial coordinating units (UCPs), which i s the next stage for SINTyS
               decentralization process.
      0        SINTyS has subscribed agreements or i s working jointly with several federal
               councils (consejos federales), including those gathering health insurers,
               housing institutes and property registers from all provincial jurisdictions. This
               link has been very useful, allowing for the horizontal dissemination of
               SINTyS' experiences in individual provinces among their peers as well as a
               better understanding of key issues from a federal perspective.
      0        SINTyS i s being actively used by the Government inthe implementation of its
               major social programs, including the Head of Households Program (Prograrna
               Jefas y Jefes de Hogar), Support for Vulnerable Groups Program (Programa
               de Apoyo a Grupos Vulnerables, IDH), Pensiones No Contributivas and the
               Register of Local Development and Social Economics Actors. Currently,
               SINTyS and national social authorities are working together in alimentary
               programs.
      0        SINTyS has actively disseminated its achievements through a newsletter,
               frequent presentations in institutional and academic forums, and news features
               in media to ensure that institutional actors, non-government organizations and
               citizens in general become increasingly aware of SINTyS's existence and its
               value.

During the demonstration phase, the benefits from SINTyS have indeed exceeded the
original expectations. It i s estimated that, since the program's insertion, SINTyS have
yield benefits for more than US$133 million, compared to US$41million estimated during
apprai~al.~Benefits in the social sub-component have amounted to over US$84 million,
arising from detection of illegitimate benefits in social programs at both national and
provincial levels, including the Heads of Household (Prograrna Jefas y Jefes de Hogar),
currently the most important social program in the country. Benefits in the fiscal sub-
component have amounted to almost US$50 million, arising from the detection of fraud
and tax evasion.              Other important non-quantifiable benefits arising from the
implementation of SINTyS include enhanced efficiency, effectiveness and transparency in
the use of public funds, as well as enhanced decision-making resulting from the



    SINTyS has developed a sophisticated methodology to estimate the benefits that accrue from the
program. For each exchange o f information that is performed, potential benefits are estimated based on the
number o f irregularities being identified.


                                                                                                        12

 availability of reliable data.4 These results are critical for the design of the expansion and
 institutionalizationphases

 Several key factors have contributed to the successful implementation of SINTyS'
 demonstration phase, including strong political support from top national authorities-at
 least during the first and latest stage-           enthusiastic receptiveness of SINTyS at the
 provincial level, proactive strategy of the SINTyS team to approach government entities
 and provincial governments with a specific diagnostic of their specific needs and the
 corresponding benefits from using SINTyS and dissemination of positive experiences,
 particularly among peers.

 The specific pre-conditions that were originally identified as triggers for Phase I1have all
 been satisfactorily completed. These are: i)analysis of the use of local Internet service
 providers (ISP) completed; ii)technology model completed; iii)data coding standards
 defined; iv) access methodology defined; v) security standards defined, including
 encryption; vi) data quality standards and validation methods defined; vi) design of the
 institutional framework for Phase 11; vii) design of the legal framework for Phase 11
 completed, inparticular privacy of information and confidentiality measures; ix) design of
 the architecture for infrastructure ready for Phase 11; x) agreements with a number,
 satisfactory to the Bank, of further entities to participate in SINTyS. A summary of the
 specific achievements has been accounted for and analyzed in the supervision mission
 conducted inDecember 2004.

 3. Conceptualdesign

 The implementationof SINTyS i s now moving into the expansion stage-Le.,                    Phase 11, of
 which the first stage will be financed under the ongoing State Modernization Loan. The
 implementation of this next phase will continue to be fully committed to the values that
 guided the conception of SINTyS' original model: i)services will be made available
 equally to all persons eligible for those services; ii)the privacy, dignity and interests of
each person will be protected; iii)information has worth when it i s accurate, available and
applied to solve problem; and owners of existing data will continue to maintain this
ownership. Likewise, the implementation of this next phase will build upon SINTyS'
original operating principles: i)every institution owns its information and i s responsible
for its life-cycle management and for defining the access rights to this information; ii)
SINTyS will be a broker of information inthat it will provide the normative, organizational
framework for the stewardship of the methods and mechanisms for information
interchange among the participating agencies; and iii) SINTyS will ensure that
participatingagenciesregulate access to information.

In addition, the expansion of SINTyS during this Phase IIwill be implemented in a
decentralized manner, with a policy and regulatory unit under the CNCPS, a national
coordination office (NCO) and individual provincial offices fully owned and operated by


    It is important to point out that many agencies choose not to take any corrective actions based on the
informationprovided by SINTyS.



                                                                                                       13

 the provinces. This alternative will allow the main users of the SINTyS, the national
 agencies and the provinces and their municipalities to leverage the fiscal and social
 benefits of SINTyS in a full-ownership model that will be conducive to the long-term
 operational and political sustainability of the system. Located under the CNCPS, the
 SINTyS' policy and regulatory unit will provide guidance in the use of information and
 ICT for the national and the provincial offices. The independence of the regulatory unit
 from the NCO will ensure its detachment from political maneuvering. The national office
 will act as coordinator of the provincial nodes intheir work with the national agencies. The
 provinces will have an incentive to use their SINTyS not only to cross-reference data but
 also to improve data flow, mining, and management since it will be part of the provincial
 governmental structure. Under this scenario, servers will be installed in each national
 government agency and provincial governments, where information will be integrated and
 made available to other system users.

 4. Componentdescription

 Phase I1will focus on six sub-components:

Sub-componentA: Improvement of Social Services. This sub-component aims to improve
 the targeting and delivery of social services in Argentina by a better identification of
individuals and relationships. This would be accomplished by facilitating the interchange
of information among participating agencies and improving the completeness, accuracy
 and reliability of agency data through cross-validation. As quantity and quality of
information available increases, better-targeted social programs can be designed and the
delivery of benefits can be controlled effectively. For example, it will be possible to
detect, among other things, incompatibilities regarding the assignation of social benefits,
overlaps in health coverage, employment status, thus providing the necessary elements to
identify non-eligible beneficiaries. Likewise, it will also permit the improved delivery of
social services by providing timely and accurate information that can be used as input in
policy formulation and the design of future programs, as well as identifying new eligible
beneficiaries in ongoing social programs. In the case of pensions and retirement benefits,
the program will allow for the early detection of decease beneficiaries, stopping payments
upontheir death.

Sub-component B: Improving Fiscal Efficiency. This sub-component aims to decrease
the number of unregistered potential taxpayers and the level of evasions through incorrect
tax returns, increasing voluntary compliance through an increased perception of risk of
evasion detection. As in the previous sub-component, this would be accomplished by
facilitating the interchange of information from participating agencies and improving the
completeness, accuracy and quality of agency data through cross-validation. Inparticular,
this sub-component will facilitate the exchange of information across national and
provincial registries that contain information among the various attributes of physical and
legal persons-including    property, income, and tax information-to    detect both tax fraud
and under-reporting, ultimately contributing to increasing efficiency, transparency and
equity in tax administration at the national and provincial levels. Likewise, the integration




                                                                                          14

 of tax information will permit to expand and fine-tune eligibility criteria for social
 programs, including, for example, notjust employment status but also wealth.

 Sub-component C: Technological Framework and Infrastructure. This sub-component
 aims at designing and implementing a sound, flexible technological framework that
 permits the continuous, effective and efficient exchange of information among government
 entities. The design process will entitle the participation of institutional actors from all
 levels of government. Inthis process, SINTyS will serve as a facilitator and coordinator in
 the development of a user-to user framework (marco de entrega sin intermediarim).
 SINTyS will also ensure that all government entities share their databases using
 compatible protocols, in which data from different sources share the same format and
 utilize the same homologation methodology. Hardware, software and exchange links to be
 adopted by SINTyS will be selected based on the experience gathered during Phase I.      In
 addition, SINTyS will support the development of normalizedprocedures that can be used
 by multiple government entities. Some of the specific outcomes of this module include:
 improving functionalities at the central office; interconnecting four provinces with a
 Virtual Private Network (VPN) with the central office; establishing a redundancy center
 for the central office and its nodes; continuing the development and implementation of
 service applications such as `One-Stop' Institutional Window (VUO); and developing a
business and operational model based on a series of toolkits for scalability, continuity,
replicability, and transparency.

Sub-component D: Organizational, Institutional and Legal Framework.                This sub-
component aims to develop and implement the organizational, institutional framework
needed to ensure the successful implementation of Phase 11, while setting the foundations
for the permanent institutionalization of SINTyS in Argentina's public sector. Activities
within this sub-component include coordination across jurisdictions-national        vis-&-vis
provincial governments; provincial vis-&-vis provincial and municipal governments-as
well as legal agreements to support them. In addition, this sub-component will support
training and dissemination activities. Some of the principles guiding the implementationof
this sub-component are: there will be a policy unit assimilated to the CNCPS that will
provide guidance to a national and provincial offices; the national office will work closely
with the main national institutions such as AFIP, ANSES, and RENAPERto integrate and
improve quality of data and related services to constituents; while provincial nodes will be
fully owned by the province and part of the province structure, they will have certain
functional dependence with SINTyS' national office; and provincial nodes will be
responsible for provincial and municipal informationexchanges.


Sub-component E: Security. This sub-component aims at developing and implementing
the necessary physical, virtual and procedural security prevention tools and activities to
ensure the highest level of data privacy and confidentiality at all levels of business
processes and information exchange with adequate controls for protecting the
confidentiality of the information being accessed. The sub-component will ensure that
constitutional guarantees for the provisions of privacy and confidentiality of individual
information are preserved and protected according to all the applicable laws. The activities
to be implemented under this sub-component include: having a security team familiar with



                                                                                          15

 the national and regional security frameworks that i s also well versed in international
 security best practices; developing a common security framework for all the sub-
 components and physical infrastructure of the project;                        implementing physical
 infrastructure protection for all SINTyS locations and any hardware connected on the
 network or present in the structure; developing also a security framework for all virtual
 infrastructure, which includes software, Internet and network, for SINTyS and its
 stakeholders when using common and shared connections; developing risk-prevention,
 data back-up and continuity processes methods. The security sub-component and SINTyS
 structure will undergo quarterly audits by an international security company. Companies
 will be able to audit the project for two years and participate only every four years to
 ensure adequate objectivity.

 Sub-component F: Project administration. This sub-component aims to provide the
 administrative and accounting support needed for project implementation according to the
 rules specified inthe Project Operation Manual and the Bank's procedures.

 5. ImplementationPlan2005-2006

The section above describes the work program to be completed during the entire Phase I1
of SINTyS' APL. Table 1 details the activities that will be financed with the US$ 8.0
million during the next two years under this amendment. The baseline for the indicators
will be provided by June 30,2005.



                                   Table 1.CY 2005-2006Work Plan
                                       Sub-component A: Social Services
                                                (US$693,234)

                  output                               Output Indicator             Dec. 2005 Dec. 2006
Digitalization Civil Registries              (H.A.1) Number of provinces with
                                             digitalization projects of Civil           1        4
                                            Registries in execution
Identificationof students in the education   (H.A.2) Proportion of identified
system (Unique Student File)                 students in the country's education      21%       55%
                                            system
Identificationof people without health      (H.A.3) Percentage of population
insurance (Unique Health Number; CUS)       without identified health coverage        50%       95%




                                                                                                 16

                                  Sub-component B: Improving Fiscal Efficiency
                                                 (US$1,731,721)
                    output                               Output Indicator            Dec. 2005  Dec. 2006
Consolidation and/or improvement inthe          (H.B.l)Percentageof real estate
Informationof the Real Estate Property          properties with identified owners

Registries to make it available to provincial   (over the totality of real estate      34%        65%
agenciesand national government                 properties in all provinces)

Collaborationinthe realization, organization    (H.B.2) Percentageof legal entities
and operation of the National Registry of       with identified members (over the
Corporations (Registro Nacional de              totality of legal entities in all
Sociedadespor Acciones, Registros               provinces)
Nacionales de Sociedades Extranjeras),                                                  15%       45%
Non-Profit Organizations (Asociaciones
Civiles y Fundaciones) and Non-Stock
Corporations (SociedadesNo Accionarias)

Allocation of the CUIT (UniqueTax               (H.B.3) Number of physical and
Identification Number)to patrimonial            legal entities identified with CUIT
registries of the agencies subject to Decree   innational andprovincial
1108/98 that will improve the identification   databases
of goods holders.
Joint work with the AFIP and the Provincial                                            3,000      7,000
Tax Administrations in activities aimed to
increasethe identification of provincial and
national taxpayers

Determine the patrimony of questionable        (H.B.4) Increaseinthe collection
taxpayersthrough the improvement of the        of the national and provincial taxes
information of the assets (bienes              due to the interaction with SINTyS
registrables).
Collaborate with the ProvincialTax
Administration through the coordination of
the exchange of information from the                                                   U$S        U$S
National Automobile Property Registry and                                            2,000,000  6,000,000
Automobile Tax databases, which are under
theirjurisdiction inthe fight againstfraud
and tax evasion, while granting the
necessary elements to develop a suitable
treatment of the debt in default.

Collaboration in the realization, organization (H.B.5) Percentageof entries in
and operation of the Registry of Financial     databases with regard to the
Trusts for the National Securities             authorizedissuingby the CNV             20%        80%
Commission (ComisidnNacional de
Valores)



                   output                                Output Indicator            Dec. 2005  Dec. 2006
Decentralization -National                     (H.C. 1) Number of national
                                               organisms connected                       1          3

Decentralization -Provincial Nodes             (H.C.2)Number of provincial
                                               nodes connected                           1         4



                                                                                                   17

 One - Stop InstitutionalWindow (VUO)        (H.C.3) Number of national and
                                             provincial organismsconnected         2            4
                                             with the VU0


                    output                            Output Indicator          Dec. 2005    Dec. 2006
Agreements for the connection of national    (H.D.1)Number of agreements
 nodes (i.e., with national agencies)        signedwith national agencies          2             4

Agreements for the connection of provincial  (H.D.2) Number of agreements
 nodes                                       sinned with movinces                  4             6
                                         Sub-component E: Security
                                               (US$412,300)
                    output                            OutputIndicator
Implementation of security measures for a    (H.E.1) Implementation of
virtual network                              Physical Logic security measures                 100%
                                             inSINTyS central andnodes
Implementation of security measures for the  (H.E.2) Access control
physical space                               implementation for SINTyS that
                                             includesbiometrics and              70 %          80%
                                             workstations restrictions
Adoption of legal framework for the security (H.E.3) Incorporation of existing
measures                                     law controls (Adoption of security
                                             standards for the APN and special    40%          70%
                                             modifications for SINTyS)
Adoption of legal framework for the security (H.E.4)Certification IS0 17799
measures                                                                                    1
                                                                                  20%          40%

Auditing of SINTyS' security                 (H.E.5)Bi-annual audits of the
                                             security systemby an external        0%          100%
                                             consultancy
Contingency planning                         (H.E.6) Contingency plans for
                                             central SINTyS                       70%         loo%
Contingency planning                         (H.E.7)Contingency plans for the
                                             SINTyS' nodes                        20%     II   50%

                                   Sub-component F: Project Administration




6. Key performance indicators

A set of indicators has been developed to measure progress toward the program's
development objectives and the outcomes that support them. The corresponding targets
reflect the progress expected during the first stage of Phase I1to be implemented in the
framework of the State Modernization Loan. These indicators can be summarized in Table
1-ResultsFramework.




                                                                                                18

                                   Table 2. ResultsFramework



 Project Development Objective      Project Outcome Indicators            Use of Project Outcome
                                                                                Information
Development of an permanent        Commonconsistentprocesses       Barriers to informationexchange
information exchange system for    inplace for registeringpeople,  among participatingagencies will
social and fiscal programs for use legal entities and assets.      have disappeared, as information
by Federal, Provincial and         People and legal entities       gathered separately becomes
Municipal Governments              identified with a single,       available, when and where needed
                                   uniquekey.                      and legally available, through a
                                   Availability of information on  shared information exchange
                                   family relationships.           network, enabling Government to
                                   Availability of information for offer `one-stop' delivery of multiple
                                   eligibility for social services value-addedand more equitable
                                   and fiscal obligations          services
                                   hb-component A: Social Services

              output                     OutputIndicators               Use of Output Monitoring

Digitalization of Civil Registries (H.A.1)Number ofprovinces       Year 1and 2
                                   with digitalization projects of
                                   Civil Registries inexecution    Reliable record of the country's
                                                                   population changes by increasing the
                                                                   numberandquality of documentation
                                                                   for newborns and family relations
                                                                   (marriages, divorces, etc.), which will
                                                                   be a key input in the drafting of social
                                                                   Dolicies
Identification of studentsinthe    (H.A.2) Proportionof            Year 1and 2
education system (Unique Student identified students inthe
File)                              country's education system      Provide a more accurateand efficient
                                                                   control systemfor those social
                                                                   programs that could benefit from
                                                                   school attendance and assist in the
                                                                   drafting of education policy
Identification of people without   (H.A.3) Percentageof            Year 1and 2
health insurance (Unique Health    population without identified
Number; CUS)                       health coverage                 Increasedata quality and
                                                                   identification of population without
                                                                   health coverage and reduce double
                                                                   coverage in support of the
                                                                   government objective of covering the
                                                                   all population with health coverage




                                                                                                       19

                                 Sub-componentB: ImprovingFiscal Efficiency
I                output                      Output Indicators               Use of OutputMonitoring

  Consolidation andlor                 (H.B.1)Percentage of real       Year 1and 2
  improvement in the Information      estate properties with
  o f the Real Estate Property         identified owners (over the      Increase the identification of the real-
  Registries to make it available to  totality of real estate           estate owners in the databases o f the
  provincial agencies and national    properties in all provinces)      Provincial Real Estate Property
  government                                                            Registries to increase collection o f
                                                                       property tax inthe provinces and
                                                                       associate taxpaying capacity o f
                                                                       taxpayers and debtors (morosos)for
                                                                       other national and provincial taxes

  Collaboration in the realization,   (H.B.2) Percentage of legal      Year 1and 2
  organization and operation o f the  entities with identified
  National Registry o f Corporations  members (over the totality of    Improve the identificationo f legal
  (Registro Nacional de Sociedades    legal entities in all provinces) and physical entities to increase
  por Acciones,Registros                                               detection o f tax fraud at the federal
  Nacionales de Sociedades                                             and provincial levels
  Extranjeras), Non-Profit
  Organizations (Asociaciones
  Civiles y Fundaciones) and Non-
  Stock Corporations (Sociedades
  NoAccionarias)

  Allocation o f the CUIT (Unique     (H.B.3) Number o f physical      Year 1and 2
  Tax IdentificationNumber) to        and legal entities identified
 patrimonial registries o f the       with CUIT in national and        Increase the identification o f physical
  agencies subject to Decree          provincial databases             and legal entities in the national and
  1108198 that will improve the                                        provincial databases
 identification o f goods holders.
 Joint work with the AFIP and the
 Provincial Tax Administrations in
 activities aimed to increase the
 identification o f provincial and
 national taxpayers
 Determine the patrimony of           1H.B.4)Increase inthe            Year 1and 2
 questionable taxpayers through       :oIlection o f the national and
 the improvement of the               irovincial taxes due to the      Provide     greater    availability   o f
 information o f the assets (bienes   nteraction with SINTyS           information to tax offices that will
 registrables).                                                        assist in the detection of fraud and
 Collaborate with the Provincial                                       sonsequent increase of tax collections
 Tax Administration through the
 coordination o f the exchange o f
 information from the National
Automobile Property Registry
and Automobile Tax databases,
which are under their jurisdiction
inthe fight against fraud and tax
evasion, while granting the
necessary elements to develop a
suitable treatment o f the debt in
default.



                                                                                                            20

Collaboration inthe realization,     (H.B.5) Percentageof entries    Year 1and 2
organization and operation of the    in databases with regardto the
Registry of FinancialTrusts for      authorized issuingby the CNV    Provide greater availability of
the National Securities                                              information to tax offices that will
Commission (Cornisidn Nucional                                       assist in the detection of fraud carried
de Valores)                                                          out through financial assets


                    Sub-componentC: Technological Framework and Infrastructure

             output                        Output Indicators              Use of Intermediate Output
                                                                                   Monitoring
Decentralization- National           (H.C. 1) Number of national     Year 1and 2
                                     organismsconnected              Itwill allow that the Agency owner of
                                                                     the Information to be connectedto the
                                                                     SINTyS network with tools for a
                                                                     more efficient exchange

Decentralization - Provincial        (H.C.2) Number of provincial    Year 1and 2
Nodes                                nodes connected                 Provide a first degree of
                                                                     decentralization toward the provinces
                                                                     with a set of tools for mining
                                                                     Provincialdatabases for the unique
                                                                     identificationof people with their
                                                                     fiscal and social attributes
One - Stop InstitutionalWindow      IH.C.3) Number of national     IYear 1and 2
(VUO)                               sndprovincial organisms
                                    :onnected with the VU0          Allow on-line consultation of social
                                                                    and fiscal attributes of people for an
                                                                    ex-ante control of people and
                                                                    petitioners

                 Sub-componentI Organizational, Institutionaland LegalFramework

             output                       Output Indicators              Use of Intermediate Output
                                                                                   Monitoring
Agreements for the connection of
 -                                  (H.D.1) Number of               Year 1and 2
national nodes(Le., with national   agreements signed with
Igencies)                           national agencies               Institutionalizationof the exchange of
                                                                    information with national agencies
                                                                   I
                                   I                               I
4greements for the connection of   1(H.D.2) Number of               Year 1and 2
xovincial nodes                     agreements signed with
                                    provinces                       Institutionalizationof the exchange of
                                                                    information with provincial
                                                                    governments

                                      Sub-component E: Security

            output                       Output Indicators               Use of Intermediate Output
                                                                                   Monitoring

mplementation of security           (H.E.1) Implementation of       Year 1and 2
neasures for a virtual network      Physical Logic security
                                    measures in SINTyS central      Provide a secure communication
                                    and nodes                       infrastructure between SINTyS and
                                                                    the Nodes




                                                                                                         21

Implementation of security      (H.E.2) Accesscontrol         Year 1and2
measuresfor the physical space  implementation for SINTyS
                                that includes biometrics and  Support a secure environment and

                                workstations restrictions     controls for SINTyS' central and its
                                                              subsidiaries

Adoption of legal framework for (H.E.3) Incorporation of      Year 1and2
the security measures           existing law controls
                                (Adoption of security         Itwill adapt the systemto all the

                                standards for the AF'N and    norms in force and will encouragethe
                                special modifications for     creation of new laws intasks related

                                SINTyS)                       to exchange of information.


Adoption of legal framework for (H.E.4) CertificationI S 0    Year 1and2
the security measures           17799                         Work toward the I S 0 certification to
                                                              increase quality controls in SINTyS

Auditingof SINTyS' security     (H.E.5) Bi-annual audits of   Year 1
                                SINTyS security systemby an   Identify and select consultancy
                                external consultancy          Year 2
                                                              Conduct bi-annual audits of SINTyS'
                                                              security

Contingency planning            (H.E.6) Contingency plans for Year 1and2
                                central SINTyS                Create safety plans, including
                                                              physical redundant sites, for the
                                                              normal operation of SINTyS'
                                                              network incase of failures or
                                                              disasters

Contingency planning            (H.E.7) Contingency planfor   Year 1and2
                                SINTyS' nodes                 Create safety plans, including
                                                              physicalredundant sites, for the
                                                              normal operation of SINTyS' nodes




                                                                                                22

