Report No. PID6955
Project Name                     Argentina - Year Two Thousand Technical...
Assistance Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       ARPE57449
Borrower                         Republic of Argentina
Implementing Agency              Secretariat for Public Function,
Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
Av. Julio A. Roca 782, 1067 Capital Federal.
Telephone/fax: 54.1.343.0181/89
Financing Plan:
IBRD                   US$50.0 million
Government of
Argentina              US$22.0 million
Total Project Cost     US$ 72.0 million
Date this PID prepared           October 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 1998
Date of Board Presentation       December 1998
1. Country and Sector Background. A crisis has arisen in Argentina (as
elsewhere globally) over the fact that computer software and computer chips
were programmed using only the last two digits of any given year, in order to
use the then scarce memory space more efficiently. This means that on January
1st, 2000, they will interpret "00" as "1900", which could cause all date-
based automated processes to malfunction (the "Y2K problem"). Beginning in
2000, effective computer systems will need to differentiate between respective
dates in the 20th and 21st centuries. This will require information systems
to have eight-digit date coding, instead of the six-digit format which has
been in common use since the 1960s.
2. Argentina's economy and society are dependent on computers. They are
accordingly vulnerable to the "Y2K" problem, which would affect hardware,
embedded chips, languages and compilers, operating and security systems,
database management and transaction-processing systems and more. Huge amounts
of records and statistics could be compromised if they fail or come to a
halt. Any enterprise with time-sensitive data from nuclear reactors and
hospitals to financial institutions and retail businesses could be harmed.
Essential services, such as benefit payments, transport functions or emergency
services (hospitals, fire, police), could be severely disrupted. Therefore,
companies and Government agencies must work to ensure that their systems,
along with those of their customers and vendors, are made millennium-
compliant---- or face severe consequences. Action will be needed to repair,
update or replace these systems.
3. Government has been addressing the Y2K issue directly at the Federal level
through active diagnostics and plans for remediation activities financed



through this project and directing Federal entities to ensure Y2K
substantively compliance by September 1999 ; at the Provincial level through
coordination, information dissemination and limited technical assistance from
the central level while relying on the Provincial Development II Project (AR-
3860) for financing help; and the private sector through information
dissemination
4. Project Objectives. To assist the Government of Argentina on an urgent
basis to contain the disruption in the country's social and economic
infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central
government systems' inability to process dates after December 31, 1999.
5. Project Description. (a) Support Activities - Strengthening of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) to assist the Federal Government in general and more
selectively the Provincial Governments and the Private Sector, including
initial studies, information dissemination, technical and impact evaluations
of non-Y2K-compliance by agencies, acquisition of common tools and
methodologies; and development of certain common systems; (b) Remediation and
Rescue. Agencies selected for priority attention will implement their
remediation subprojects financed from this fund (remediation activities need
to be taken before Year 2000 to prevent problems). Technical Assistance would
be provided by the PCU to carry out Y2K diagnostics, technical and impact
analyses, preparing implementation plans, preparing terms of reference and
supervision of consulting firms; preparing equipment specifications; etc; (c)
Project Coordination and Administration, including project and subproject
quality assurance and monitoring, external administration and procurement, and
external quality assurance and audit
6. Project Financing. The total project costs will be U$ 72.0 million, of
which the IBRD would contribute U$ 50.0 million.
7. Project Implementation. The executing agency will be the Secretariat of
Public Function in the Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers.
8. Sustainability. The subprojects in and of themselves are inherently
irreversible.  Further, if the "Y2K" damage is severe enough and the
affected infrastructure is sufficiently valuable, the stakeholders would have
an economic incentive to maintain the remedial measures. There are no
requirements for government budgetary support beyond the implementation of the
project's investment phase. The amount of such support is unknown at this
time but, without continuing maintenance, some infrastructure will be exposed
to continuing damage in the future.
9. Lessons Learned from Past Operations. There is no past experience to draw
on or lessons to be reported. However, the design of this project follows the
lessons of successful "emergency" activities. The objective is focused and
its activity would be demand-driven. The plan for managing the operation and
for its close, independent surveillance draws on the demonstrated need for
sufficient flexibility to react to unforeseeable circumstances. Also in line
with "emergency" projects, decision-making authority and project
implementation are highly centralized so as to reduce the chances for
bottlenecks    Furthermore, the project does not pursue any sector policy
objectives and has no conditionality in this respect. The approach for
monitoring and evaluation emphasizes adaptable action plans and work programs.
- 2 -



10. Poverty Category. N. A.
11. Environmental Aspects. This project has no environmental impact.
12. Program Objective Categories. The primary category is Public Sector
Management (BY).
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 3 -



