Page  1
June 27, 2000
Mr. José Luis Machinea
Ministro de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4423-AR (Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project) 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated March 29, 
1999 (the Loan Agreement) with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to 
inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, 
the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below.
1.
Section 1.02 (k) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ""SGP" 
means the Subsecretariat of Public Administration of the Borrower’s Office of the 
Chief of Cabinet of Ministers;".
2.
The term "SPF", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced with the term "SGP".
3.
Section 2.09 is hereby amended by replacing the words "Secretary of Public 
Function" with the words "Subsecretary of Public Administration".
4.
Section 3.03 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the words "A committee" with the 
words "For purposes of Parts A and B of the Project exclusively, a committee".
5.
Section 6.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words "and Public Works and 
Services".
6.
Section 6.02 is hereby amended by deleting the words "y Obras y Servicios 
Públicos".
7.
Category (2) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read 
as follows in its entirety:
"Consultants’ services
100%
  and training:
  (a) under Part D of
  1,200,000
      the Project
  (b) other
 14,800,000".
8.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "The objectives of the Project are:  (1) to assist the Borrower, on an 
urgent basis, to prevent or minimize the disruption in the Borrower’s social and 
economic infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central 
government systems to process data properly after December 31, 1999 due to the Y2K 
Problem; and (2) to assist the Borrower in designing a program to modernize the public 
sector in Argentina, both at the federal and provincial levels.".
9.
Part C of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph 3 thereto, to 
read as follows in its entirety:  "3. Provision of administrative support for the 
implementation of Part D of the Project.".
10.
A new Part D is hereby inserted immediately after Part C of Schedule 2, to read 
as follows in its entirety:
Page  2
"Part D:
Modernization of the Public Sector
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to Borrower staff to design a 
program to modernize the public sector in Argentina based on:  (a) systemic reforms 
involving, inter alia, human resource management, training, information technology; 
(b) agency-specific reforms involving a process of transformation through 
restructuring and change management aiming at results oriented administration; and (c) 
strategic reforms involving creation of a national performance evaluation system and a 
program of assistance to facilitate modernization of provincial governments.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this amendment letter will 
become effective as of May 1, 2000 upon receipt by the Bank of:  (a) one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter; and (b) a copy of a legal opinion issued 
on behalf of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank and by counsel acceptable to the 
Bank, indicating that, taking into account the terms of Article 3 of Borrower 
presidential decree no. 102 of February 11, 1999, this amendment letter has been duly 
authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally 
binding in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit
   for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jose Luis Machinea
Minister of Economy
Date:  September 20, 2000
