Page  1
CONFORMED COPY    
LOAN NUMBER 4423-AR
Loan Agreement
(Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 29, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4423-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) 
"Executive Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 3.03 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
Page  2
into between the Borrower and the Bank with respect to the timetable and monitoring 
indicators for the Project;
(c)
"Operational Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(e)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(f)
"Participating Entity" means each entity of the Borrower which enters 
into an Operational Agreement; and the term "Participating Entities" means 
collectively all such entities;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on June 23, 1998 and on behalf of the Borrower on July 31, 1998;
(i)
"Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two 
of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
"SPF" means Secretariat of Public Function of the Borrower’s Office of 
the Chief of Cabinet of  Ministers;
(l)
"Subproject" means any of the projects described in Part B of the 
Project;
(m)
"Y2K Problem" means potential problems that might be encountered by 
computer hardware, software, and other related systems in processing year-date 
information for the year 2000 and beyond; and
(n)
"Y2K Resolution" means a resolution to be issued by the Chief of Cabinet 
of Ministers of the Borrower requiring all federal government entities to participate 
in the efforts to remediate the Y2K Problem (as hereinafter defined).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million three hundred three thousand Dollars ($30,303,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a Banco de La Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower  of such later 
Page  3
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. The Secretary of Public Function of the Office of the Chief of the 
Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower and any person or persons whom he or she shall 
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SPF with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, technical and environmental, practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the timetable and monitoring indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through SPF, shall establish, and throughout the 
course of Project implementation maintain within SPF:  
(a)
A Project Coordination Unit (the PCU) that shall be responsible for 
coordinating the provision of assistance with respect to all aspects related to 
Project implementation, including, inter alia, the carrying out of the following 
tasks: carrying out initial studies and activities, preparation of guidelines for 
diagnoses and Subproject implementation plans, preparation of terms of reference, 
analysis of the impact of non-remediation for selected government entities, review of 
implementation plans, and preparation of monthly action plans for approval by the 
Executing Committee.
(b)
A committee (the Executive Committee) comprised of SPF’s Secretary and 
two Under-Secretaries to decide, inter alia, on Project priorities, including which  
particular economic or social government functions or entities should benefit from 
Project-supported activities.  The Executive Committee shall provide quarterly reports 
on the progress of the Project to the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SPF, shall carry out the Project, or cause 
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to include: (a) the structure and 
organization of the PCU, including the terms of reference for all technical 
coordination functions and the procedures pertaining to the following areas: 
administration, procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation; (b) the 
criteria for the selection, and the procedures for the carrying out of Subprojects; 
and (c) the model form of an Operational Agreement.  In case of any conflict between 
the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower, through SPF, shall: (a) obtain the prior approval of the Bank for each 
Subproject to be carried out under such Part of the Project; and (b) enter into an 
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Agreement), with each entity 
selected by the Executive Committee (the Participating Entity) for the purposes of, 
inter alia, regulating their respective roles in the execution of the Project. 
Section 3.06. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
(through the PCU) shall furnish to the Bank, quarterly reports on progress of the 
Project (including on its technical and financial aspects), such reports to be 
prepared by independent consultants employed under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank and to be based, inter alia, on the timetable and monitoring indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower (through the PCU) shall hold, at the request of the Bank: (i) 
until December 31, 1999, quarterly reviews with the Bank on the progress of the 
Project during the three month period preceding the date of each such review and based 
on the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (ii) after December 31, 1999, 
semi-annual reviews with the Bank on the progress of the Project during the six month 
period preceding the date of such review and based on the reports referred to in 
paragraph (a) above.  After each such review, the Borrower shall take or cause to be 
taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank, during the 
review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.  The request for any such 
Page  5
review shall be sent by the Bank to the Borrower at least thirty days before such 
review is to take place.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and separate accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
Page  6
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Y2K Resolution has been issued;
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been adopted;
(c)
that a procurement agent for the Project has been selected and employed 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
that the PCU has been established;
(e)
that the Executive Committee has been established;
(f)
that a training plan for the PCU, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, is under implementation; and 
(g)
that the first Y2K Problem impact study has been furnished to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date June 29, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
 (1)
Goods
  12,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
83% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 83% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
  16,000,000
100% 
services
(3)   Operating Expenditures       500,000
83%
(4)
Refunding of 
Amounts due 
Project Preparation
   1,500,000
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(5)
Fee
                       303,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
        30,303,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures required for the 
operation of the PCU such as office supplies and communications costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, on an urgent basis, to 
prevent or minimize the disruption in the Borrower’s social and economic 
infrastructure that would be caused by the failure of critical central government 
systems to process data properly after December 31, 1999 due to the Y2K Problem.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Support Activities
Carrying out of the following activities: 
1.
(a)
Confirmation of initial estimates of Participating Entities and 
corresponding systems at risk by teams of selected consultants; and (b) identification 
of common approaches, tools and methodologies for use by the Participating Entities.
2.
(a)
Execution of a publicity campaign to alert public and private sector 
entities to the Y2K Problem; (b) provision of assistance through a telephone hot-line 
system; and (c) creation and maintenance of a website with best practices and 
directions to relevant websites.
3.
Technical analysis of diagnostics and evaluation of the economic impact of not 
solving the Y2K Problem, as an input to decision-making in the selection of 
prospective Participating Entities.
4.
Acquisition of, and provision of training in the use of, tools and methodologies 
for the Y2K Problem executing units located in the Participating Entities, in order to 
profit from best practices and economies of scale. 
5.
Development of common administrative systems for economies of scale and 
simplicity.
Part B:
Remediation and Rescue
Carrying out of projects consisting, inter alia, of the following activities: 
1.
Identification and planning: (a) diagnosis; (b) technical analysis; (c) impact 
analysis; (d) identification of components, problems, remediation options and cost 
estimates; (e) preparation of remediation plan, comprising activities, inputs, 
resources, testing plan, conversion plan, training plan, monitoring indicators, and 
contingency plans.
2.
Implementation of remediation plans: (a) replacement of commonly-used systems by 
standardized software; (b) upgrading of the hardware/software platform infrastructure 
if necessary for compliance; and (c) modification of existing systems quality 
assurance in the form of verification of successful testing.
Page  9
3.
Implementation of contingency plans: planning and execution of technical actions 
designed to remediate situations resulting from previously unidentified technical 
problems, unsuccessful remediation plans referred to in paragraph 2 above, or from 
entities not initially included in the Project and not in compliance with the Y2K 
Resolution.
Part C:
Project Administration 
Carrying out of Project coordination and administration activities, including: 
1.
Preparation, review and analysis of non-Y2K Problem-compliance impact studies. 
2.
Ensuring that all Subproject implementation, testing and contingency plans 
presented by the Participating Entities are adequate and comply with the Operational 
Manual.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2004
through September 15, 2013
1,515,000
On March 15, 2014
1,518,000
____________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Page  10
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per 
bid package but more than $50,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part C.1, standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to all goods procured under Part B of this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997  (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof  applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Manpower-intensive services including repetitive tasks such as file and 
data-base verification and clean up, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (but not to be financed 
out of any Loan proceeds advanced to a procurement agent for use in paying for such 
goods or services); and
Page  12
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
Page  13
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
