Doumxent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Rert No. 13035
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
S.MALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2628-.IND)
MxAY 10, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and ma) he osed by recipienlts only iD the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banl; authorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (June 1985), US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1.100
1986/87:  US$1.00 = Rpl,129
1987/88:  US$1.00 = Rpl,714
1988/89:  US$1.00 = Rpl,659
1989/90:  US$1.00 = Rpl,738
1990/91:  US$1.00 = Rp l,800
1991/92:  US$1.00 = Rpl,910
1992/93:  US$1.00 = Rp2,075
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                              Asian Development Bank
BAKITWAN                         Institute for Animal Disease Research
BAPPENAS                         Badan Perencanaan Pembanguan National: National Development
Planning Agency
BCDIU                            Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit
BI                               Bank Indonesia (Central Bank)
BPKP                             Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan: State Financial
and Development Supervisory Board
BRI                              Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGLS                             Directorate General of Livestock Services, Ministry of Agriculture
DDI                              Directorate Diversified Investment
DIC                              Disease Investigation Centre
GOI                              Government of Indonesia
IFAD                             International Fund for Agricultural Development
KUD                              Koperasi Unit Desa (village cooperative)
NTB                              Nusa Tenggara Barat
NTT                              Nusa Tenggara Timor
PMO                              Project Management Oftice (Jakarta)
PMU                              Project Management Unit (Provinces)
PPL                              Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan: village level agricultural extension
worker
PPM                              Penyuluh Pertanian Madia: agricultural extension staff (middle
level)
PPS                              Penyuluh Pentanian Specialis: agricultural extension staff (subject
matter specialist)
REC                              Rural Extension Centre
SATGAS                           Satuan Petugas Lapangan (field task tforce comprising animal health,
extension and husbandry workers)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offloe of Dkoctor-GerJ
Op_rtin Evauaion
May 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUT1VE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Smallholder Cattle Development Project (Loan 2628-IND1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia Smallholder Cattle Development
Project (Loan 2628-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
The project was consistent with both Government policy and Bank support strategy. It was
effectively implemented, and the Bank and the Government showed flexibility in adapting project
design when changes in conditions so required. By closing - extended by one year - all project targets
had been fully achieved or exceeded, at a total cost lower than estimated (USD 48.0 million, or 72
percent of appraisal estimate). The full cost reduction is explained by lower than originally estimated
cattle procurement costs.
The in-lind credit disbursement and repayment system has worked well. Farmers' repayments
have been consistent with average calving rates, although the full repayment period is longer than
the optimistic appraisal expectation (7 years rather than 5). Attempts to monetize the in-kind credit
system involving a financial intermediary created unnecessary complications.
Because herd productivity did not match appraisal expectation, the project is likely to yield
an economic rate of return of 14 percent, which is satisfactory albeit lower than the appraisal estimate
of 25 percenL An effective computerized monitoring and management information system, put in
place under the project, contributed to project success.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory; the sustainability of its achievements as likely,
and its impact on institution building as substantiaL
The PCR is generally informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment                                             1
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officia duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2628-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .        ...........................................
Evaluation Summary  ...................................                                              ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                                       I
Project Identity ..................................                                          I
Background ....................................                                             1
Project Objectives and Description   .....................                                  2
Project Design and Organization  .......................                                    3
Project Implementation .............................                                        5
Project Results ..................................                                          6
Project Sustainability ..............................                                       9
Bank  Performance   ........................ ...... .                                      10
Borrower Performance  ..................                    .....                          10
Project Relationships  ..............................                                      11
Consulting Services ...............................                                        11
Project Documentation and Data .......................                                     11
Summary and Lessons Learned ........................                                       11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Objectives .....................                      ...       ..                 14
SAR Target/Project Performance   ...........                                               16
Project Cost &  Disbursements  ..........   ...........                                    17
Project Sustainability  .....  .............                                               17
Project Implementation ............................                                        17
Bank Performance ................................                                          17
Lessons Learned ................. .....                                                    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEX
1. Related Bank/Fund Loans .........................                                              19
2. Project Timetable  .........                 .....................                             20
3. Loan Disbursements  ............................                                               21
4. Project Implementation - Key Indicators  ................                                      22
5. Project Costs and Financing   .......................                                          24
6. Bank and IFAD  Loan Amendments ...................                                             26
7. Project Results ................................                                               27
8. Status of Loan Covenants  .........................                                            28
9. Use of Bank Resources  ..........................                                              29
10. Cattle Population in Project Area  ...........               .. .......                       30
11. Herd Production Coefficients   ...........               ..      .........                    31
12. Farming System  Profile in Project Areas  ........               .. .....                     32
13. Credit Herd Projection I  ....... ...... .. ..........                                       33
14. Credit Herd Projection II .............                ..      ..........                     35
ANNEXES
1. Jembrana Disease Investigations
2. List of Reports and Studies
3. Economic Analysis Tables 1-7
MAP: IBRD No. 18822R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2628-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Smallholder Cattle Development
Project, for which a World Bank loan of US$32 million to the Government of the Republic of Indonesia
(GOI) was approved in October 1985. The loan closed on March 31, 1993, one year later than the
original Loan Closing Date of March 31, 1992.  In accordance with the practice of the Bank,
disbursements were made for four months after this date (until close of business on July 31, 1993). Total
disbursements amounted to US$25.75 million. A sum of US$6.25 million was cancelled in two tranches;
US$2.0 million on December 23, 1991, and US$4.25 million at final closing of accounts on August 13,
1993. The project was cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) with
a loan of SDR 11,600,000 (equivalent to US$12 million) of which 91 %, in SDR terms, was disbursed
by March 31, 1993.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III of this PCR were prepared by a
mission from the Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office." The PCR was prepared in accordance with the Guidelines for Preparing Project
Completion Reports issued in June 1989. Preparation of this report is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondences between the Bank and Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, discussions with the Borrower and the findings of a Bank mission that visited
Indonesia in February/March 1993. Part II (Project Review From Borrower's Perspectives) of the PCR
was prepared by the Directorate General of Livestock Services, Government of Indonesia, and provided
to the Bank on November 17, 1993.
Messrs. Osman Farruk (EA3AG) and Ian Sillar (Consultant). Mr. Antony P. Cole,
Division Chief, EA3AG, reviewed the PCR.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2628-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The main objective of the project was to raise farm incomes by supplying breeding cattle
to smallholder farmers in transmigration areas in six provinces in Sumatra and three in Sulawesi. The
cattle were to be used as draft animals and to provide manure to sustain crop production, as well as to
be a capital reserve and sources of additional cash income. Recipient farmers, totalling 76,500 families
were to receive 84,100 cattle (76,500 heifers and 7,600 bulls) of the Bali or Madura breed. These cattle
were to be procured from the provinces of South Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara Timur and East Java and
transported by private cattle traders. From the two or three calves which would be paid back by a
recipient farmer to clear his debt, a further 55,000 families were to receive cattle during the five-year
implementation period. Other project objectives were to: (a) improve cattle transfer infrastructure and
veterinary laboratory facilities, (b) produce seed of improved forage species and supply seed to farmers
receiving cattle, (c) employ and train field staff to provide veterinary and extension services to farmers
receiving cattle, (d) investigate the causative agent, transmission and control of Jembrana disease which
is a disease specific to Bali cattle, (e) provide technical assistance for project implementation, forage
production, Jembrana disease investigation, monitoring and evaluation and cooperative development, and
(f) provide training in management skills, extension techniques, forage and cropping systems, cattle
marketing, cattle fattening, cooperative management and administration and disease eradication and
vaccine production.
Implementation Experience
The project was implemented satisfactorily. By the original loan closing date, 90% of cattle
distribution had been achieved and all other targets fully achieved, or exceeded. In the early years cattle
procurement exceeded the SAR's annual target but in 1991 procurement was halted due to concern about
excessive extraction from the supply areas, and pending the outcome of a Bali herd study and government
policy. Actual project cost of US$48.0 million was 72% of the SAR estimate. Because of an increase
in the disbursement rates for the Bank and IFAD loans, GOI share of project financing was only
US$7.7 million equivalent (16%), not US$22.4 million (34%) as estimated in the SAR.



- 111 -
Results
The overall development objective of establishing nucleus herds in transmigrations sites and
improving the agricultural income of transmigrants has been largely achieved. Total distribution of
breeding cattle under the project (including the progenies of the cattle distributed under the First
Smallholder Cattle Development Project) represent 66% of all cattle distributed in the nine provinces
under various GOI programs.  Although average calving rates in the distribution areas are not
substantially higher than those in the procurement areas, and are lower than the SAR assumption of 80%
in the fourth year, the herd size in the project area is increasing at an annual rate of 10%. This compares
favorably with the 2%-4% p.a. growth rates in the traditional Bali cattle areas (South and South-East
Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara Timur and Nusa Tenggara Barat) primarily because average adult and calf
mortalities (less than 5% and 3% respectively) in the project areas are significantly lower than those in
the procurement areas. This we attribute to a combination of two factors: the improved veterinary and
animal husbandry services that have been instituted in the project areas through a cadre of well-trained
field personnel (SATGAS) and the less harsh environment in the project areas than in the Eastern Islands.
The in-kind credit disbursement and repayment system  has worked well.  Farmers
repayments have been consistent with average calving rates, although full repayment period (average
7 years) has been longer than anticipated at appraisal (5 years), which was too optimistic an assumption.
At project completion 65 % farmers due for repayment have made full repayment (two calves). The credit
repayment performance is better than most other cash, or in-kind, credit operations in the agricultural
sector. However, the involvement of the BRI in the credit administration turned out to be unnecessary,
and created unnecessary complications in the credit operation.
Although it has taken considerably more resources and time than envisaged at appraisal, the
Jembrana disease research work at the Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit (BCDIU) has achieved
commendable results, and has led to the production of a vaccine. At this stage of development, the cost
of production of this vaccine (Rp 5,000 per dose) is high, the period of immunity afforded by it is
indeterminate, and its relevance in the government's overall strategy for the control of this disease in Bali
and elsewhere is not clear.  The DGLS requested continuing project support to the BCDIU  for:
(a) developing a more cost effective method for the production of this vaccine, and (b) carrying out
further surveillance and transmission studies, which is now being provided through an extension of the
IFAD Loan (171-ID).
Project Sustainability
Based on the in-kind return of breeding cattle progeny and their redistribution to other
smnallholders, it is believed that the project initiatives and benefits will be sustained over a long period
of time. The successful institutionalization of the project at the Kabupaten level will allow more local
level management of the credit herd and will further enhance sustainability. One component which is
imperative to sustainability is the continuation of high quality SATGAS support, including intensive
veterinary, cattle husbandry and credit management services provided by these field staff. Enough
revenue will be generated by the herd growth (from the sales of cull animals) to finance the cost of these
services.



- iv -
Lessons Learnt
The major lessons learnt from the implementation of the above project are as follows:
(a)     inter-regional transfer of cattle can be a viable strategy for reducing pressures on
overstocked natural grassland, improving the efficiency of the domestic herd in the
smallholder sector, increasing the national herd, and for supporting poverty
alleviation programs;
(b)     private sector investments in the large-scale procurement, transportation and
distribution of breeding cattle to smallholders on credit are unlikely; they are also
not well-equipped to provide the animal husbandry and veterinary services so
essential to efficient management of the breeding cattle by the smallholders;
(c)     an in-kind credit system for breeding cattle distribution (and possibly other large
and small livestock) can work successfully provided well-trained and mobile field
staff and effective management information systems are in place;
(d)     attempts to monetize an in-kind credit system and involve a financial intermediary
in its administration, create unnecessary operational complications and such
'hybridization' of credit policies can be avoided;
(e)     despite small size and poor daily weight gain of Bali cattle, compared to alternative
(domestic and foreign) breeds, its ability to utilize low quality forage, high
fertility, and suitability for draft purposes make it particularly suitable for
smallholder management;
(f)     only in exceptional locations and farming communities, substantially higher than
the national average calving rates will be possible; however, drastic reductions in
calf and adult mortality rates should be possible which will offset low calving rates
and result in higher growth in herd development;
(g)     herd production coefficients could be improved by focussing distribution/redistribu-
tion to relatively more favorable agro-ecological sites; and
(h)     the Government should pay urgent attention to qualitative and quantitative
improvement of the Bali cattle herd in its traditional habitat, formulate an overall
strategy for extracting young breeding cattle from such areas, and strictly control
the slaughter of heifers and breeding cattle.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2628-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity
Project Name    Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Loan No.        Loan 2628-IND
RVP Unit        East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector          Agriculture
Subsector       Livestock
2.       Background
2.1      Agricultural development in Indonesia during the 1970s and 1980s has been impressive. The
agricultural sector, which contributes 21 percent to overall GDP and provides employment to some
55 percent of the labor force, grew at 3.8 percent per annum between 1969-89, compared to a population
growth of 2.1 percent. Farm food crops, which account for 60 percent of agricultural GDP, grew at 4.2
percent per annum during the same period. Livestock, which account for 10 percent of agricultural GDP,
grew at 4 percent per annum in the 1970s and 5 percent in the 1980s. During these periods, livestock
numbers have increased substantially leading to increased consumption of livestock products. Yet, per
capita consumption (currently 6.3 kg of meat, 4.2 kg of milk and 2.3 kg of eggs) remains low.
2.2      At the time of the appraisal, there were some 8.3 million cattle (and 2.5 million buffalo) in
Indonesia, almost all of which were kept by smallholders primarily as a source of draft power and
manure, and second as a capital reserve and source of cash income. Eighty percent of the national herd
was located in Java, Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara but in the main target areas for GOI's transmigration
program, namely Sumatera and Kalimantan, cattle were scarce. Transmigrants, moving from densely
populated Java, were denied traditional use of cattle, especially for draft power, by the scarcity of cattle
in the destination areas. Without draft power, transmigrant families in many localities failed to fully
develop and utilize the land given to them under the transmigration program.  Mechanization was
discouraged on employment grounds. Concurrently, GOI policies in the sector were directed at reversing
the decline in the national herd which occurred in the 1970s from an increasing urban demand for beef
and increasing pressure on land in Java where most of the cattle were located. After several largely
unsuccessful attempts in the late 1970s to increase the national herd by importing breeding cattle and the
establishment of state-owned ranches, GOI cattle programs re-focused on improving the efficiency of the
domestic herd in the smallholder sector.  The new focus of GOI programs included the moving of
indigenous breeding cattle from relatively extensively-grazed small herds on overstocked natural



- 2 -
grassland, mainly in the dry Eastern Islands, to individual ownership by smallholders where improved
production parameters might be expected.
2.3      The second Smallholder Cattle Development Project, jointly financed by the Bank and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), represents an extension of the first Smallholder
Cattle Development Project" which was funded by IFAD (Loan 35-ID). The first project commenced
in April 1981 and closed in March 1987. It was designed to increase agricultural production by
overcoming the constraint of draft power. The major components of the first project, as designed, were:
(a) procurement and distribution of 45,000 cattle from overstocked areas in the Eastern Islands,
distributed mainly to transmigration areas in Sumatera, (b)infrastructure for cattle transfer, (c) forage
improvement, (d) institutional development, and program support. The second project was designed to
expand the program started under the first one, but more closely focussing on the needs of the
transmigrant farmers.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.1      The main objective of the project was to raise farm incomes by supplying breeding cattle to
smallholder farmers, mainly transmigrants. The cattle were be used as draft animals and to provide
manure to sustain crop production.
3.2      The major components of the project, as it was designed. were:
(a)   cattle procurement: procurement of 84,100 Bali or Madura breed cattle (76,500 heifers
and 7,600 bulls) phased over five years from the provinces of South Sulawesi, Nusa
Tenggara Timur and East Java (Madura) and transportation by private cattle traders to
participating provinces in Sumatra and Sulawesi,
(b)   cattle distribution: during a five year implementation period, distribution of 84,100
breeding cattle to 76,500 smallholder farmers, and 60,500 first and second generation
offspring2' (55,000 heifers and 5,500 bulls) to a further 55,000 smallholder farmers,
and to another 106,000 farmers beyond the implementation period, bringing the total
number of farmer beneficiaries to about 237,000; cattle would be distributed to farm
communities in six provinces in Sumatera (Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, West Sumatra,
Bengkulu, Lampung) and three in Sulawesi (South, Central and Southeast Sulawesi);
recipient farmers would include transmigrants, local participants in transmigration
schemes, and local farmers near transmigration schemes;
(c)   infrastructure for cattle transfer: construction of six cattle holding and quarantine
facilities and upgrading another four facilities, and provision of about 105 vehicles,
about 340 motor cycles and miscellaneous veterinary, laboratory and office equipment;
(d)   forage seed production: forage seed production by 700 smallholder farmers in Nusa
Tenggara to supply the 237,000 small farmers receiving cattle;
'       Sometimes referred to as Phase 1.
Offsprings from Phase I and ll.



- 3 -
(e)    provision of veterinary and extension services: employment and training of about 150
field staff teams (SATGAS) to provide cattle and forage extension services;
(f)   Jembrana disease investigation: investigation of the causative agent, transmission and
control of Jembrana disease in Bali cattle, through the Bali Cattle Disease Investigation
Unit (BCDIU);
(g)   technical assistance: for: (i) project implementation, (ii) forage production, (iii) disease
investigation and control, (iv) monitoring and evaluation, and (v) cooperative
development; and
(h)   trainine: in (i) management skills, (ii) extension techniques, (iii) forage and cropping
systems, (iv) cattle marketing, (v) cattle fattening, (vi) cooperative management and
administration, and (vii) disease eradication and vaccine production.
3.3      Total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$66.4 million of which the Bank would
fund US$32 million (excluding taxes), IFAD US$12 million equivalent (SDR 11,600,000) and GOI
US$22.4 million equivalent. Project cost estimates included US$4.0 million for physical contingencies
(8% of base costs) and US$15.2 million for expected price increases. The Bank was designated as the
Cooperating Institution by IFAD for the purpose of their loan administration and project supervision.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      Key design elements were: (a) adherence to the Phase I concept of Government-financed
transfer of cattle, (b) an in-kind credit operation by the Department of Livestock with BRI involvement
in credit recovery and documentation, (c) intensive support services provided through a specially created
cadre of field staff (SATGAS), (d) five-year in-kind repayment period, (e) centralized project
implementation, (f) involvement of the Directorate of Diversified Investment (DDI) in financing the
Government's share of the costs of procurement, and (g) involvement of village cooperatives (KUD) and
BRI in the redistribution of offsprings.
4.2      Given the weaknesses in the animal husbandry extension services, and the largely crop-focussed
national agricultural extension service, it was appropriate for the project design to have depended on
SATGAS for the provision of field services. A high SATGAS:farmer ratio of 1:500 under the project
should also not be considered to be 'over-servicing' because each SATGAS team of two field staff
directly supervise the management of a high-risk capital asset of about Rp 400 million, act as de facto
loan supervisors and provide essential technical support in animal health, forage production and
marketing.
4.3      The financing of breeding cattle distribution/redistribution which, compared to fattening cattle
activities, have a long payback period, is commercially unattractive to the private sector. The DGLS is
also better equipped to supervise smallholder breeding cattle development, both in terms of technical and
managerial skills and supervisory capacity. The project design, nonetheless, made provision to annually
investigate the possibility of credit supervision being transferred to creditworthy KUDs or branch offices
of the BRI. The outcome of these investigations" was to show that creditworthy KUDs did not exist in
"/       Annex 2, Report 6.



- 4 -
the distribution areas and branch offices of the BRI do not have the capacity, but equally importantly,
do not have the technical capability, to adequately supervise smallholder credit for breeding cattle
activities. It was, therefore, appropriate that DLGS was designated as the institution to manage the
procurement and distribution of breeding cattle activities under the project. The training provided under
the project helped DGLS further enhance its capabilities and implement the project effectively.
4.4      Historically, in Indonesia, institutionalization of "Sumba", or in-kind credit, has not been
generally successful.  Two essential design features of this project, however, have enabled it to
successfully apply an in-kind credit system: (a) a management information system (MIS) based on
computer technology, and (b) a well trained, well equipped, multi-skilled team of 'credit herd'
supervisors (SATGAS) living in the distribution locations. These essential project features have now
been, or are in the process of being, institutionalized within the DGLS which, now thereby have an
enhanced capability of supervising an in-kind credit system for smallholder breeding cattle distribution/
redistribution.  The project has demonstrated that in-kind credit for smallholder breeding cattle is
workable and relatively efficient in terms of debt servicing.4
4.5      Another feature of the in-kind credit system is that the credit herd" can be self-perpetuating,
given reasonable herd production coefficients and good supervision.6' The procedure requiring the
conversion of cattle credit, given and repaid in kind, into BRI credit, has, from an implementation
viewpoint, been a project design weakness, because the project credit for cattle is essentially a "revolving
commodity credit" scheme and not a traditional institutional financing activity. BRI involvement in the
credit administration, however, was necessitated by GOI regulations7 which require that whenever
foreign funds are applied to credit items, whether recovered in cash or in kind, the funds must be
administered by a government bank, such as BRI, and accounted for in financial terms. This has created
the following problems. Cattle given to farmers on credit by DGLS are documented in BRI books in
Rupiah terms reflecting the cost of procurement and distribution incurred by the Government.
Repayments, although are in kind (two calves), are nevertheless credited in BRI books at an estimated
market value of the animals. In most cases, the local market value of the two returned animals do not
cover the Rupiah costs of the credit animals originally received by the farmer. Therefore, in spite of
their fully meeting the in-kind credit term, many farmers remain defaulters in BRI books, and hence,
become ineligible for future loans from BRI. Also, recipients whose heifers died remained defaulters in
BRI books. In view of these and also because of the over-optimistic calving rate (para. 6.3) assumed at
appraisal, supervision missions had recommended measures for rationalization of credit policies under
the project and simplification of their administration"'.
The experience in the implementation of the cattle distribution component of the Bank-financed
Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (Ln. 2638-IND) has been similar.
'Credit herd' refers to the aggregate herd on which in-kind repayments are outstanding at any
point in time. When farmers redeem their debt with necessary in-kind repayments, the animal,
or animals, with which they were originally supplied, are deleted from the credit herd. The
credit herd numerically increases if in-kind repayments are redistributed to other farmers on
an in-kind basis.
Annex 2, Report 14.
Ministry of Finance Decree No. 395 which defines the procedures and administration of
foreign loans.
Supervision Mission - July 1992.



- 5 -
4.6      The project design envisaged that credit administration for and redistribution of offsprings
received as in-kind repayments would be done by the village cooperatives (KUDs) and the BRI.
However, this has not materialized and continued involvement of the DGLS in the collection and
redistribution/sales of 'credit repayments' will be necessary to ensure continued growth in the credit herd.
Decentralization and institutionalization of project management which started in 1992 and will continue
during 1993 will place the DGLS in a strong position to manage this process.
4.7      The design concept of restricting cattle procurement to mainly the Bali breed was justified by
the superiority of Bali cattle in terms of fertility, ability to utilize low quality forage, tractability and
suitability for draft purposes. These attributes of Bali cattle are of particular importance for smallholder
management and outweigh the breed's small size and poor daily weight gain compared to alternative
breeds. However, the project design did not adequately analyze the impact of this and other similar
projects, as well as of the various government programs for cattle distribution on the supply of breeding
cattle in the traditional Bali cattle areas. Consequently, the project faced considerable difficulties in
procuring breeding cattle, particularly heifers, of the desired quality and specifications, which necessitated
a temporary halt in procurement pending the outcome of a Bali herd study. The recognition of the
potential problem of Jembrana disease in Bali cattle by the inclusion of a Jembrana disease research
component and by procurement being restricted to disease free locations, were appropriate.
5.       Project Implementation
5.1      General.  On the whole the project was implemented by the Government of Indonesia
satisfactorily. DGLS effectively managed the procurement, transportation and distribution of a large
number of cattle. All required physical infrastructure and staff to achieve this were developed in a timely
and efficient manner. Criteria for the selection of beneficiaries were effectively followed and targeted
on the poorer families among the transmigrants. In the early years cattle procurement exceeded SAR
annual target but in 1991 procurement was halted pending the outcome of a Bali herd study and
government policy on extraction of breeding cattle from the traditional supply areas. Nonetheless, by
the original loan closing date, 90% of cattle distribution had been achieved and all other targets fully
achieved, or exceeded. A one-year extension enabled full achievement of the SAR targets and, more
importantly, allowed DGLS to put in place a decentralized institutional arrangement for continued
development of the project.
5.2      Loan Disbursement. At final closing of accounts on August 13, 1993, disbursement from the
World bank loan amounted to US$25.75 million, equivalent to 80 percent of the original loan amount of
US$32.0 million. US$2.0 million was cancelled on December 23, 1991, and the undisbursed balance
of US$4.247 million on August 13, 1993. Disbursement from the IFAD loan by the March 31, 1993,
amounted to US$14.5 million, equivalent to 121 % in US dollar terms. Changes in the US$/SDR
exchange rate meant that the US$ equivalent of the IFAD loan of SDR 11,600,000 increased from
US$12,000,000 at the commencement of the project to US$16,077,600 in September 1991. Thus, in
SDR terms, IFAD loan disbursement, amounted to 91 percent by loan closing date.
5.3      GOI Cost-Sharing (Financing). The SAR envisaged 34 percent GOI financing. By loan
closing date, GOI contribution amounted to US$7.7 million equivalent, 16 percent of total costs. The
low GOI share was brought about by: (a) increases in the disbursement rate by the Bank and IFAD for
cattle procurement (from 85 percent in the SAR to 100 percent); for civil works (from 60 percent in the
SAR to 82 percent); for vehicles and motorcycles (from 80 percent in the SAR to 100 percent ex factory
cost); and (b) increased expenditure on consulting services, which being 100 percent externally funded



- 6 -
further reduced GOI's share9. GOI provided funds for some cattle procurement in the first year of the
project but fiscal pressures on GOI, due to low oil prices at the time, combined with the lack of flexibility
from DDI with respect to its investment policy and timing of supply of funds, caused the Bank, IFAD
and GOI to agree to increase the disbursement rate on the cattle component. Increases in the investment
costs for civil works and motor vehicles, and the falling Rupiah exchange rate were the justification for
an amendment to the disbursement percentages for these components.
5.4      Procurement. Cattle procurement worked efficiently, employing local competitive bidding
and closely following the procedures set out in the SAR and developed in Phase I. However, delays in
shipment out of the procurement areas were experienced due to shortages of cattle ships, and
transportation and handling costs - nearly 40-50 percent of the delivered cost - were excessive. The
tendering process was well-managed and the PMU exercised good quality control at all stages of the
contract implementation. Excessive buying pressure on female cattle in the supply areas had, by 1989,
caused the Project rejection rate of contractor cattle to rise to 29 percent. The poor supply situation was
exacerbated by buying pressure from other projects"'. The cattle supply analysis in the SAR was made
largely irrelevant by the operation of other projects and in the absence of a coordinated GOI policy on
breeding cattle movement. The use of private traders as procurement contractors worked well and a high
standard of animal health was maintained in delivered animals. Project management effectively ensured
that the traders fulfilled their responsibilities at the different stages of the transaction, i.e. purchase,
collection, quarantine, shipping and delivery to the recipient farmers, and, most importantly, supervision
of the animals for fourteen days after delivery. Forty-eight percent of the cattle shipped in Phase 11 were
procured in South Sulawesi, 38% in NTT, 11% in Madura and 3% in NTB (Lombok). Rate of
procurement was above SAR targets for project years 1,2 and 3 but significantly below targets for the
latter years, with the one year extension being required to meet the overall project target of 84,100.
5.5      Civil Works. All civil works, as envisaged by SAR, were completed to a high standard. An
additional holding ground and an additional quarantine/ship-loading facility was built at Pari Pari, but no
disbursements against this expenditure were made because the procurement guidelines were not followed.
For some structures, which may have limited post-project use, specifications may have been excessive.
6.       Project Results
6.1      Physical Targets. By March 31, 1993, the project had successfully achieved the main physical
targets of the SAR which included: (a) procurement and distribution of 84,150 cattle (100% of the SAR
target), (b) distribution of cattle to 76,500 farmers (100% of SAR target), (c) redistribution of offspring
of cattle distributed under Phase I and Phase 11 to a further 47,530 farmers (86% of SAR target),
(d) forage seed production of 77,600 kg (122% of SAR target), (e) construction of seven holding grounds
and one quarantine facility (100% of SAR target), (f) employment and comprehensive training of 582
SATGAS staff (104% of SAR target), and (g) vehicle procurement generally in excess of SAR targets.
9!       Table 6 shows original and amended loan schedules for the Bank and IFAD.
10       For example: APB, APBN, Transmigration, Banpres.



- 7 -
6.2      Beneficiaries. Appraisal target of a primary distribution of 84,100 cattle to 76,500 farmers
was achieved. These farmers were supported by SATGAS at 157 locations in nine provinces"'. In five
of these provinces (Riau, South Sumatra, Lampung, Bengkulu and Jambi), 46,587 other farmers had
previously received cattle under Phase I and continued to be supervised by the project in Phase II. About
60% of the SAR target of 55,000 farmers receiving redistribution of offspring from the primary herds
(established in both Phase I and Phase II) was achieved. This shortfall was mainly due to poorer than
expected calving rates in the primary herd and therefore fewer heifers being available for redistribution.
The total farmer recipients by March 31, 1993, amounted to 155,391 farmers. Of the 76,500 farmers
receiving cattle in the primary distribution in Phase II, 59,500 farmers (76%) were engaged in rainfed
food crop production, 15,500 (20%) in PIR estates (mainly rubber), and 3,500 (4%) in irrigated food
crop production. Ninety percent of recipient farmers were transmigrants, or local participants in
transmigration schemes, with the balance being local farmers near transmigration schemes.
Concurrently, seven other projects"v, with a cattle distribution component, operated in the same
provinces and are recorded as having distributed a further 74,700 cattle. On the whole, 21 % of the cattle
population in Riau was from cattle distributed by the project (Phase I and II), 14% in Jambi and
Bengkulu, and 11 % in South Sumatra. In Lampung, West Sumatra and in the Sulawesi provinces, the
distributed cattle constituted only a minor proportion of the total cattle population.
6.3      Cattle Performance. The average calving, calf mortality and adult mortality rates among the
distributed cattle are estimated at 50%, 4% and 6%, respectively, compared to SAR estimates of 80%,
5% and 2%. Given an average 20-30% calf mortality rates in the traditional Bali cattle habitat, the
project's success in achieving such a low calf mortality is conmmendable. The PCR attributes this to the
high quality support services by the SATGAS and the relatively less harsh climatic conditions in the
project area. The adult mortality rate is higher than expected largely because it also includes animals
stolen or lost. Calving rates in the first year has been particularly low, even lower than the first year
performance of cattle distributed in the first project, primarily because the age, weight and puberty levels
of bulls and heifers at procurement were substantially below the average conditions for breeding because
of a general shortage of young animals of higher breeding age in the traditional procurement areas.
Except for four sites in South Sumatra, three sites each in Lampung and West Sumatra, and one site each
in Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi, the second year calving rates were below the SAR
projections, while in the third and fourth years it was below SAR estimates in all project locations. There
are, however, some locations that recorded calving rates exceeding the SAR estimates, while some were
substantially below. Project monitoring, using a standard set of technical indicators has shown that 42 %
are good sites (pay-off their loan in 5-6 years), 47% are average (pay-off loan in 7-7.5 years), and only
11% are considered bad sites with poor loan repayment. Based on these, the PCR has concluded that
the SAR estimates of calving rates were too optimistic, and that it would be difficult to obtain an average
calving rate exceeding 60-65 % for most of the distribution areas. The PCR is also inclined to conclude
that the SAR estimates of an average calving rate of 72% in the traditional procurement areas of Bali
cattle was an over estimate.
6.4      Herd Growth. On March 30, 1993, the credit herd, being the cattle asset base of Phase I and
II of the project, totalled approximately 132,600 head female cattle. The herd is distributed between 260
Riau (7,000), South Sumatra (17,721), Lampung (11,798), Bengkula (5,500), Jambi (5,000),
West Sumatra (7,000), South Sulawesi (6,000), Central Sulawesi (5,000) and Southeast
Sulawesi (5,000).
12J      Table 10.



- 8 -
locations, each supported by a SATGAS team. Application of project average technical coefficients of
50% calving, 6% adult loss (mortality, forced slaughter, stolen), 4% calf mortality and a two animal re-
payment commitment being met within 7 years and 100% redistribution of returned heifers, shows that,
in aggregate, the credit herd would, technically, be slowly contracting3'.  Application of a more
favorable calving rate of 65% which might apply to 89% of sites shows that the credit herd could
numerically increase.
6.5      Impact in the Distribution Areas. The project carried out an analysis of impact on recipient
farmers in 1990 by comparing project and non-project farmer profiles in 1985 and 1990 in the five
distribution provinces of Sumatra. The analysis shows that, for Phase I farmers on rainfed food crop
production systems, the typical farming family with cattle, compared to families without cattle: (a)
prepared and harvested 20% more land, (b) sold double the agricultural produce, (c) consumed more,
and better quality, food, and (d) worked more on their farms in 1990 than they did in 1985. On average,
fifty percent of project farmers used their animals to assist in land preparation but this varied considerably
between locations and from season to season. For example, 11 % of farmers used animals for draft in
Jambi and 85% in Lampung. Use of cattle for draft purposes in crop production was directly correlated
with the potential agricultural productivity of the area, with cattle-for-ploughing occurring in 70% of
irrigation farm sites. A typical project farmer applied 4 tonnes of cow manure to crops, compared to I
tonne on average for a non-project farmer. Based on these findings, the report has concluded that
distribution of cattle to the transmigrants had positive contribution by way of improved agricultural
productivity, welfare and standard of living among the recipients.
6.6      Jembrana Disease Investigation. By March 19, 1993, the BCDIU had substantially achieved
the research objectives identified in the SAR. Notwithstanding BCDIU's commendable research and
development achievement on Jembrana disease, the high cost of production of the vaccine, at about
Rp5,000/dose, together with the probable need for 3 doses to achieve reasonable immunity and
uncertainty about the duration of immunity, precludes the commercial application of vaccination-based
disease control strategy. Some questions also remain about the stability of the vaccine with storage. Two
options exist for possible significant reduction in vaccine cost but further research is required.'4' It is
also important that the Government determines a comprehensive strategy for the control of this disease
on Bali and elsewhere in the country.
6.7      Environmental Impact. A brief environmental impact study was carried out in March 1992.
Generally, no adverse environmental impacts were found in the procurement and distribution areas. The
major environmental issue raised was the need for improved criteria for the siting of quarantine stations
and holding facilities and for improved methods of waste disposal and management of harmful weeds.
However, the potential to transfer weed seed in forage and a likelv adverse genetic impact in the
procurement herds, caused by continuous exporting of superior female cattle, were noted.
6.8      Economic Rate of Return. Applying the same methodology and assumptions used in the
SAR, the economic rate of return (ERR) was recalculated at 14 percent, compared to 25 percent estimated
at appraisal and 9.6 percent at the mid-term  review.  The lower ERR is explained by the lower
incremental cattle off-take in the receiving areas due to lower average calving rates and higher calf
mortality (para. 6.3). The sensitivity analysis for the ERR is given below:
Tables 13 and 14.
Annex I for future research proposals.



-9 -
Recalculated ERR
Base case                                             14%
Calving rate up 10%                                   16%
Calving rate down 10%                                 12%
Mortality same as procurement areas                   10%
Zero livestock benefits                                8%
Crop benefits only from rainfed food farms            12%
7.       Project Sustainability
7.1      Sustainability will depend on: (a) continued collection of offspring and their redistribution and
disposal, and (b) high level of support services to recipients, including animal husbandry, preventive and
curative veterinary services, credit, marketing and forage development. To achieve this, it will be
necessary to maintain the SATGAS by their absorption into the DGLS, provide them with funds for
mobility, and to integrate the activities of SATGAS and the general extension staff (PPL).
7.2      Continuation of the SATGAS's numeric strength, multi-skilled technical capability and budget
and resource support is crucial for sustainability. A SATGAS team (2 people/team) has been shown to
require an operating budget of Rp 5 million per year plus provision of Rp I million per year for motor
cycle replacement. Thus, to support 260 SATGAS teams would require a total annual SATGAS budget
of about Rp 1,560 million. Thirty percent of the SATGAS staff are contract staff and need to be
supported by special funding which could come from return of part of the revenue from credit herd cull
sales which are estimated to return Rp 5,200 million from a credit herd of 132,000 female cattle.
Currently the Ministry of Finance returns 20% of revenue to the project but none of this is presently used
to cover SATGAS costs (6% goes to the PMO and 14% to the PM U). The future plan is to fully fund
the SATGAS who are on contract out of this revenue. Additional, and/or reallocated, funding would
appear to be necessary to sustain the program. DGLS are seeking an increase in the proportion of
revenue generated which is retumed to the project by the Ministry of Finance from 20% to 30% which
would be allocated in the future: 6% national, 10% provincial and 14% district (including SATGAS).
Clearly, enough revenues will be generated from the herd growth to maintain the basic services created
by the project. By restricting cattle distributions to more ecologically favorable sites, herd production
coefficients could be improved '" and attendant revenues from cull animal sales from the credit herd
increased. Finally, the effectiveness of the SATGAS is encumbered by the need to act as proxy loan
supervisors on behalf of the BRI and the development of a "revolving commodity credit" or group credit
could help to streamline the credit administration and enable the SATGAS to service a larger number of
farmers.
7.3      Decentralization and Institutionalization of project activities commenced in 1992 and DGLS
expects to have this process essentially completed by March 31, 1994. Successful completion of this
process is crucial for post-project sustainability. The rationale for decentralization is that, with the
cessation of inter-island cattle procurement, and the cessation of external funding, the need for the PMO
office diminishes. Conversely, as all future cattle supply will be through re-distribution within the
For example calving rate of 65% could be sustained which is the average for the better sites
in Phase II for year 4 and after.



- 10 -
respective districts, the role of the district becomes more important. The centralized, PMO-based
computerized management information system, which was a key element in the successful outcome of
the project to March 31, 1993, will be discontinued. Computer hardware has been supplied, using
project funding, to all those district offices of the DGLS which cover cattle distribution locations and,
dedicated MIS software, using compiled DBase3 programs, has been developed "' for district,
provincial and national control. Software outputs have been simplified and designed, as far as possible,
to accommodate the requirements of similar projects supervised by the DGLS. The hardware is in place,
staff training has almost been completed and downloading data has commenced. The expectation is that
the PMO and PMU will be absorbed into appropriate divisions of the DGLS at the national and provincial
levels and that the number of personnel directly involved in post-project management in these offices will
diminish to about one-third, mainly by natural attrition.  Whereas the SATGAS, under project
management, reported directly to the PMU and bypassed the district office, under the decentralized
operation the district office will assume direct control of the SATGAS staff. It is important that the
impact of these institutional arrangements and changed functional responsibilities on the effectiveness of
the field services by the SATGAS teams is carefully evaluated.
7.4      On the balance, the PCR is of the view that because of the generally favorable technical,
financial and institutional conditions surrounding the post-project phase of the project, it is highly
probable that the project will be sustainable.
8.       Bank Performance
8.1      The Bank's decision to finance the project, despite its perception of this type of operations
being "high risk," was an appropriate one. Appraisal was done with high degrees of professionalism,
the key project risks were correctly identified and highlighted during internal deliberations and discussions
with the Government, and there were no major delays in its processing. During the early years of the
project, RSI was responsible for task management, which with the reorganization of RSI in 1990, was
transferred to Bank headquarters in Washington. This reduced the intensity of project supervision and
the frequency of contact between the task manager and the project staff. compared to earlier years, and
on occasions resulted in some delays in procurement decisions. On the whole, the Bank, provided
effective supervision of the project, and supervision missions addressed implementation issues with
appropriate insight, forthrightness and flexibility. Its decision to extend the project for an additional year,
increasing substantially the technical assistance inputs and supporting continuation of the Jembrana disease
research for another one year beyond the Bank's loan closing date were correct. The Bank maintained
adequate consultation with the cofinancier, IFAD.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.1      The borrower generally complied with the covenants of the Loan Agreement, except that the
audit reports were often late. It has acted appropriately and timely on the recommendations by Bank
supervision missions, except for those relating to amending the credit administration arrangements. The
main weakness in project implementation was the shortage of GOI funds in the early stages and the need
to amend the Bank and IFAD disbursement rates under the Loan Agreements to maintain a satisfactory
level of project funding. No serious staff shortages were reported and the morale of the project staff was
generally high throughout implementation although changes to the Project Director twice during
The programme author comes from the Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB).



- 11 -
implementation caused some lack of continuity. These changes were also made without prior consultation
with Bank, as was required under the Loan Agreement.
10.      Project Relationships
10.1     Good relations were maintained between the Borrower and the Bank which was enhanced by
good continuity of Bank staff involved with project supervision.
11.      Consulting Services
11.1     Consulting services, both local and foreign, had a substantial role in all aspects of the project.
Consultant costs amounted to about US$9.4 million, compared to SAR estimate of US$4.2 million, and
made up 20% of project costs. The performance of consulting services was variable'7'. A high standard
of consulting support was provided for project management and Jembrana disease investigation. Some
of the special studies, such as the Bali Cattle Herd Structure, forage reports, mineral deficiency studies
and the study on institutionalization were particularly useful. Socio-economic impact studies between
1987 and 1990, while assembling a large quantity of data, were, however, inadequate for measuring
project impact.
12.      Project Documentation and Data
12.1     The SAR and Loan Agreements provided a useful and concise framework for implementation
of the project.
12.2     Monthly and quarterly reports prepared in the early stages of implementation by project staff
and consultants contained much detailed information, which was most useful to staff involved in the
management of this complex project, for its supervision and for compilation of the PCR. The availability
of these data, undoubtedly a product of computerization of project record keeping, contributed to a
successful project outcome. Through the institutionalization process the project reporting formats have
been reviewed and simplified and should further streamline post-project management.
13.      Summary and Lessons Learned
13.1    The project has been successfully implemented, the physical targets have been achieved (in
some cases exceeded) and the overall development objectives - developing nucleus herds in selected
transmigration sites and improving the agricultural income and welfare of the transmigrants - have been
largely achieved. Total distribution of breeding cattle under the project (including Fl + F2 from
Phase I) represent 66% of all cattle distributed in the nine provinces under various GOI programs. The
herd size in the project area is increasing at an annual rate of 10%. This compares favorably with the
2%4% p.a. growth rates in the traditional Bali cattle areas (South and South-East Sulawesi, Nusa
Tenggara Timur and Nusa Tenggara Barat) primarily because average adult and calf mortalities (less than
17'      Annex 2 shows a list of consultants' reports and studies.



- 12 -
5% and 3% respectively) in the project areas are significantly lower than those in the procurement areas.
It is unlikely that the financing and management of this large inter-island transfer and distribution of cattle
for breeding purposes, followed by the required veterinary and animal husbandry services, would have
been possible with private sector initiatives.
13.2     The in-kind credit disbursement and repayment system has worked well. Farmers' repayments
have been consistent with average calving rates, although full repayment period (average 7 years) has
been longer than anticipated at appraisal (5 years). The credit repayment performance appear to be better
than other cash, or in-kind, credit operations in the agricultural sector. However, the involvement of the
BRI in the credit administration turned out to be unnecessary, and created complications in the credit
operation that the project could do without.
13.3     Although it has taken considerably more resources and time than envisaged at appraisal, the
Jembrana disease research work at the BCDIU has achieved commendable results, and has led to the
production of a potentially effective vaccine. However, further work is needed for (a) developing a more
cost-effective method for the production of this vaccine, (b) carrying out further surveillance and
transmission studies, and (c) determining a comprehensive Government strategy for the control of this
disease in Bali and elsewhere.
13.4     Based on the return of breeding cattle progeny, and their redistribution to other smallholders,
it is believed that the project initiatives and benefits will be sustained over a long period of time. The
successful institutionalization of the project at the Kabupaten level will allow more local level management
of the credit herd and will further enhance sustainability. One factor which is imperative to sustainability
is the continuation of high quality SATGAS support, including intensive veterinary, cattle husbandry and
credit management services provided by these field staff, which the Government is apparently committed
to do.
13.5     The major lessons learnt from the implementation of the above project are as follows:
(a) inter-regional transfer of cattle can be a viable strategy for reducing pressures on
overstocked natural grassland, improving the efficiency of the domestic herd in the
smallholder sector, increasing the national herd, and for supporting poverty alleviation
programs;
(b) private sector investments in the large-scale procurement. transportation and distribution
of breeding cattle to smallholders on credit are unlikely, they are also not well-equipped
to provide the animal husbandry and veterinary services so essential to efficient
management of the breeding cattle by the smallholders;
(c) an in-kind credit system for breeding cattle distribution (and possibly other large and
small livestock) can work successfully provided well-trained and mobile field staff and
effective management information systems are in place,
(d) attempts to monetize an in-kind credit system and involve a financial intermediary in its
administration, create unnecessary operational complications and such 'hybridization' of
credit policies should be avoided;



- 13 -
(e) despite small size and poor daily weight gain of Bali cattle, compared to alternative
(domestic and foreign) breeds, its ability to utilize low quality forage, high fertility, and
suitability for draft purposes make it particularly suitable for smallholder management;
(f)  only in exceptional locations and farming communities, substantially higher than the
national average calving rates will be possible; however, drastic reductions in calf and
adult mortality rates should be possible offsetting low calving rates and resulting in higher
growth in herd development;
(g) herd production coefficients could be improved by focussing distribution/redistribution
to relatively more favorable agro-ecological sites; and
(h) the Government should pay urgent attention to qualitative and quantitative improvement
of the Bali cattle herd in its traditional habitat, formulate an overall strategy for extracting
young breeding cattle from such areas, and strictly control the slaughter of heifers and
breeding cattle.






- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Cofmments on part I.
This comprehensive Project Completion Report as Presented illustrates the
size & complexity of this Project.
(1)   Proiect Objectives
A feature to be highlighted in this PCR is that the original project
design/concept:
(Preparation 1978 SAR Phase I 1980, SAR Phase II 1984) were well
thought through & fitted into the social & economic resources of
participants. It fulfilled a farmers needs, in such a way he could manage
the technical, administrative & credit responsibilities the project required of
him when he became a beneficiary.
The main objective of the project was to raise farm incomes by supplying
breeding/draft cattle to smallholder farmeers in trarsmigration areas in six
provinces in Sumatera and three in Sulawesi. The cattle were to be used
as draft animals and to provide manure to sustain crop production and
provide a capital reserve and additional cash inr.c.r. Recipient farmers,
totaling 76,500 families were to receive 84,150 catLle (76,500 heifers and
7.650 bulls) of the Bali or Madura breed.
Other project objectives were to:
(a)   improve cattle transfer infrastrucare and veterinary laboratory
facilities,
(b)   produce seed of improved forage species and supply seed to farmers
receiving cattle,
(c)   employ and supply train field staff to provide management veterinary
and extension services to farmers,
(d)   investigate the causative agent, transmission and control of Jembrana
disease,



- 15 -
(e)   provide technical assistance for project implementation, Management
Information System (M.I.S), forage production, Jembrana disease
investigation,  monitoring  and  evaluation  and  cooperative
development, and
(f)    provide training in management skills, extension techniques, forage
and dropping systems, cattle marketing, cattle fattening, cooperative
management and administration and disease eradication and vaccine
production.
Additional objectives were added during the one year extension in that the
Institutionalization of the project (ie. the transfer of the Management
Information System [ M.I.S I to Kabupaten & Provincial levels) were
undertaken.
(2)   SAR Target/Proiect Performance
The targets & performance of the project as detailed present an accurate
assessment of Project achievements.
a.    distribution of 84,150 breeding cattle in 157 transmigration sites in
five provinces of Sumatera and three in Sulawesi (100%);
b.    collection, redistribution and sales of 52,818 offsprings from the
heifers distributed under an earlier IFAD project (1980 - 1987) and
under the current project (1986 - 1993) (87%);
c.    production of 95,000 tons of fodder seeds (122%);
d.    provision of 959 manmonths of technical assistance for project
management, project related studies and institutional strengthening
(224%);
e.    provision of vehicles (120%), motorcycles (161 %), equipment, staff
and physical facilities, and
f.    successful implementation of a research program  on Jembrana
disease of the Bali cattle at the BCDIU, resulting in the development
of a vaccine.
A comment on (d) above to explain that the additional man-months (224%)
were mainly due to the number of additional studies that were undertaken.
-    The BCDIU has certainly achieved commendable progress & the
vaccination of animals at field locations in West Sumatera during
February 1993 was a milestone in the control of a major disease of
Bali Cattle. The social impact of controlling this disease will be



- 16 -
great. The efforts of BCDIU research in the future to reduce costs
(to Rp. 1000 hopefully) will also enhance the benefits nationally.
(4)   Project Cost & Disbursements/Compliance with Comments (AM-7).
The Project agrees with the missions report on these matters.
(5)   Proiect Sustainability.
The successful transfer of the M.I.S. to District & Provincial levels requires
additional & continuing support. The present 20% of sales returned by the
Ministry of Finance to fund on-going activities is inadequate.  The
management agrees with the need to increase to 30-% - 6% to national 10 %
Provincial & 14% to District (incl.SATGAS).
The total herd produced from distribution will be 736.154 by 2001, of
which 450.600 will have been sold. The present credit herd is 132,606 and
will generate sales with a value of Rp. 135.202.500.000 (US $ 67,600,000)
at present prices.
2.    Comments on Part 3.
Project management finds this Part 3 a very detailed & comprehensive
document, that fairly represents the projects achievements, problems & the solutions that
were implemented.
However, a few comments
(1)   Proiect Implementation. (5/5.1 ref Part 3).
The increase in loan disbursement of IBRD & IFAD (especially category
I cattle) need not necessarily be reviewed as a weakness. It cguld be
viewed rather as a strength illustrating to flexibility of IBRD & IFAD
adiusting legal requirements to reflect changin, economic conditions &
ensure project objectives are met especially core components such as cattle
Procurement,
(2)   Bank Performance (8/8.1 ref Part 3).
The Project feels that Bank Supervision Missions were very supporting of
managements endeavor to implement this diverse project; diverse not only
in technical components, but geographically. Management agrees in 1990
there was a delays re procurement decisions, & also the attention by RSI to
minor operational matters, that management had been dealing with as
routine minor matters for some 10 years, may have diverted some
management time & efforts.



- 17 -
Project Management found the visits by IFAD staff including their
participation in supervision mission wrap-up meetings on numerous
occasions, were very helpful.
3.    Lessons Learned.
A number lessons were leaned during implementation among with:
-  A Management information System (M.I.S.) carefully thought thru,
discussed firstly AT FIELD LEVEL, then at subsequent higher levels,
agreed & formalized prior to the first contracts being implemented.
-  Good project design.
-  Thorough preparation of a component before action to implement was
taken.
-   Unified management that established unequivocal lines of responsibility.
This was achieved through having all project components, including
purchasing training & overall action, under the control of the one
management team.
-  Emphasis on the paramount importance of clear, direct and consistent
communication throughout all levels of management and field staff,
within related organisations and between project staff & the individuals
they were dealing with.
-  Maximising the application of flexibility in making decisions that were
going to enhance project objectives. This meant encouraging individual
initiative in exercising this flexibily through intensive training and
motivation on, arnongst other things, the spirit of the project.
-  Giving priority to generating accurate, relevant and up to date
information on events that were happening throughout the project,
including  individual animal performance.   Ensuring maximum
accessibility to this information through having it relayed directly to
both provincial and national management, a key to management success
was maintaining motivation at an exceptionally high level for the staff
involved.
-  Flexibility during implementation allowing management & the lending
agencies to adjust technical & financial parameters as changing
circumstances dictated. This was very important as this proiect was
runing over a 12 year period MORE THAN TWO PELITA (GOI 5
year development plans).



- 18 -
Supervision by lending agencies, was generally helpful when
supervision was maintained by World Bank Washington also. When
program manager of World Bank was stationed in RSI the rapid
communication necessary for support was very apparent.
The all important SATGAS were recruited directly from the learning
institutions & they had no preconceived misconceptions on the project
objectives or the roles they were expected to play.
Promotion within the system was a strong management priority.
Preference in promotion was given to in-house staff.
The Project Directors were individuals of strong will & prepared to
delegate authority and to ensure responsibility was clearly defined &
the subsequent accountability.
Utilisation of the Private Sector to enhance efficiency especially within
the contracting component. This allowed Project Management to avail
of expertise not normally available in Government.
Good project coordination began at field level & subsequently will
"work its way' up thru the system.
Consultants need to be an integral part of the Team & not an "advisor
on the sideline"; with Continuity of inputs over a continuing period of
time, whether the inputs are on a continuing or part time basis.



I 4



- 19 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK/FUND LOANS AND CREDITS \1
Credit/Loan No.                                 Purpose                               Year of
Approval               Status
Cr. 355-4ND.               InitiatLon of a modem livestock industry for Indonesia's     1973           PCR issued 10/81
less popultated areas, through the adaption of advanced                    PPAR 6/82
ranching technology to local conditions.
[FAD Loan 35-DD            Increased agncultural production by overcoming               1980          Bank overview PCR
constraint of draft power                                                  issued 5/88
Loan 2638 ED               Distribution of cattle among poor smalLholders in NTT/NTB    1985           ongoing wYith loan
for raising their income (component of a broad based                       closing date set for
area development project NTASP)                                            10/31/1994
\1 Two ADB loans contnbuted significantly to the development of the livestock scctor ADB Loan 444-1NO
and ADB Loan 706-lND



- 20 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                Date                     Date                     Date
Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Identification                                                                        Mav 1984
Preparation                                                                           Nov. 1984
Appraisal                           Jan. 28, 1985                                     Jan. 28. 1985
Loan negotiations                    June 24, 1985                                    Aug. 1985
Board approval                      Aug. 20, 1985                                     Oct. 22, 1985
Loan signature                                                                        Nov. 27. 1985
Loan effectiveness                  Feb. 25, 1986                                     Apr. 17, 1986
Project completion                  Mar. 31, 1992            Mar. 31, 1993            Mar. 31, 1993
Loan closing                        Mar. 31, 1992            Mar. 31. 1993            Mar. 31. 1993



Table 3: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS (USS million)
Bank                                                         IFAD
Bank
Fiscal                              SAR           Actual          Actual                       SAR            Actual         Actual
Year                              Estimate     Achieved \1       as% SAR                     Estimate      Achieved \1      as% SAR
1986                                                                                                 0.2                            0A/.
1987                                    0.8          0.8               100%                          0.5            0.4            78%
1988                                    6.3          9.6               152%                          3.2            2.1            67/o
1989                                   12.0          13.9              116%                          5.2            4.3            83%
1990                                   18.4         18 1                98%                          7.2            6.2            85%
1991                                   24.8         22 2                89%                          9.3            7.1            76%
1992                                   32.0         27.5                86%                         12.0            9.0            75%
1993                                                28.2                                            12.0           14.5           121%
1994                                                25.7 \2
\l Indonesian Fiscal years
\2 After cancellations and refunds from Special Account



-22 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - KEY INDICATORS
Actual
Item                                                   UnJt       SAR           Revised   AchJeved        Actual
Taret        Target        \1        as % SAR                         Remari
A. CATTLE NUMIBERS
Canleprocured&distributedPhasel                        head        45,000                      50,772          113%   Phasel
C-ne procured & distributed FY 86/87                   head         3,300                       7,700          233%1.  Phase 11 only
Catle prured & distributed FY 87/88                    head        13,750                      17,600          128%1o  Phase 11 only
Cale procured & disuibuted FY 88/89                    head        13,750                      16,500          120%   Phase l only
Catle procured & distributed FY 89/90                  head        16.500                      15,400           93%   Phase n only
Cattleprcured&distributedFY90/91                       head        17,600                      13,200           75%   Phasellonly
Caltleprocured&distributedFY91/92                      head        19,250                       3,850           20%   Phase n only
Cattle prcured & distributed FY 92/93                  head             0                       9,900                  Phase II only
Cattleprocred&distributcdTotal                         head        84,100        84,150        84,150          100%   Phasellonly
FI/F2 offspring distributed                            head        60,500                      52.S 18          87%   Phase I and ll
Saie ofcull females & surplus males                    head                                    43.247                  Phase I and 11
Ferale Cattle in 'credit herd'                         head                                   132,606                  Phase I and 11
E. FARM1ERS RECEIVING CATTLE
Froni primary distribution, Phase I                    farmer      40,500                      46,587          115%
Fnn priary distribution, Phase!!                       farmer      76,500                      76.500          100%,
Fwn FlF2 offspring redistribution                      farmer      55,000                      32,304           59%   Phase I and 11
C FORAGE SEED
Producion                                              kg          77,600                      95.000          122%   Phase 11 only
D. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
BRI credit documents, prunary dist.                    no.         76,500                      59.231           770%  Phase 11 only
BRI credit documents, FI/F2 distribution               no.         55,000                       9,087           17%   Phase I and ll
bInkindcattle repayments                               head                                    5 6.299                 Phase I and 11
Fmrs with BRI debt cleared                             farmne                                  22.361                  Phase I and 11
E. STAFFING
PMO (Jakarta):
- S     officers                                       no.              8                           8          100%
- Prok.ional officer                                   no.             15                          15          100%
-Tectmical officer                                     no.              2                           2          100%/.
-Supprtttsff                                           no              45                          4s          100%
- Toal                                                 no.             70                          70          100%0
PN{lUs (13 Provinces):
- Senior oflicers                                      no.             19                          19          100%o
-Pw(ez6onalofficer                                     no.             71                          71          100%
-Tecdnicalofficer                                      no.             35                          35          100%o
- Suppwot aff                                          no.             48                          48          1000%
-Total                                                 no.            173                         173          100%
Field, SATGAS                                          no.            560                         582          104%
Total Stalng                                           no             803                         825          103%o
SATGAS Tearrs                                          no.            150                         157          1059'o  260 withPhasel
U Bs 31-Mar-93 unless otherwise indicated



-23 -
F. VEHIICLE PROCUREMENT
Min bus                                              no.             4                           4         100%
Jeep                                                 no.            28                          58         207/o
PjCkP                                                lbno.          73                          65          89%
Moti Cycde                                           no.           341                        550          161%
G CIVILWORXS
Holding Voum&                                        no.              8                          9         113%
Quaguntie facility                                   no.              1                          2         200%
IL CONSULTING & STUDIES
Prjestmu  ag-nent                                    mn.           161          333           333          207%
BCDIU                                               rn-rn          160           282           282         176%
Monitor & Evaluation                                 man.          108           344          344          319%
Othe Sa&s                                            no.                           6             6



- 24 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
a. Project Costs (USS million)
SAR \1                   Actual U                       Actual
Component                                  Estimate                   Achieved                    as % SAR
1. Cattle                                     43.1                      23.90                          55%
2. Civil Works                                  1.5                       1.94                         129%
3. Consultants                                  4.2                       9.42                        224%
4. Training                                     1.1                       2.96                        269%
5. Vehicles & motor cycles                      1.4                       1.55                         111%
6. Veterinary & laboratory equipment            1.5                       0.97                          65%
7. Office furniture and equipment,             2.6                        1.11                         43%
farm tools and plows
B. Laboratory animals, fertilizers,
pesticides and forage seeds \3                1.0                       0.13                          13%
9. Administration                               9.8                       5 91                         60%
10.Technical assistance for
project preparation                           0.2                       0.16                          78%
Total                                        66.4                      48 04                          72%
U From SAR Table 3.3   ;Includes physical contingencies, provision for price increases and taxes & pro-rata
share of unallocated funds
\2 Rupiah expenditure converted to USS at GOI annual exchange rate for project
b. Project Financing (USS million)
SIce                     SAR Estimate                Revised Estimate \1               Actual Achieved
Amount       %                Amount        %                 Amount              %
Bank                      32.0    48%                   30.0      44%o                  25.75          54%
FAD                       12.0    18%                   16.1      23%                   14.55          30%
GOI                       22.4    34%                   22.4      33%                    7.74          16%
ToW                       66.4   100%                   68.5    100%0                   48.04         100%
\1 Book loan USS2.0 million cancelled; IFAD loan assumes SDRIUSS as at 1991.



-25 -
c. Component Costs by Funding Source (USS million)
Component                                 SAR                  World         IFAD            GOI          Total
Estimate                Bank
Cattle                                   43.1                 15.602         7.973         0.324       23.899
Civil works                               1.5                  1.427                       0.508         1.935
Cosultants                                4.2                  8.139         1.280                      9.419
Trainmg                                   1.1                                2.956                      2.956
Vbicles   motor cycles                    1.4                                1.547                      1.547
Veacrauy & lab. equip.                    1.5                  0.584                      0.388         0.972
Omi  firniture,tools&ploughs              2.6                                0.636         0.474         1.110
Laboatory aninals; pcsticides,seed        1.0                                              0.134        0.134
Amnistation                               9.8                                              5.913        5.913
Tcical assist. of project prep.           0.2                                0.155                      0.155
TOTAL                                    66.4                   25 75         14.55          7.74        48.04 /1
/I May not add up due to rounding errors.



Table 6: BANK AND IFAD LOAN AMENDMENTS
A. BANK                                                   Amilount of Loan allocated
(expressed in dollar equivalents)
Original Loan          As finally                 As finally                   %
Schedule             Amended                   Disbursed                  change
1. Cattle                                                   24,600,000            18,000,000               15,601,628                    63%
2. Civil works                                                 800,000             2,100,000                1,427,068                    178%
3. Veterinary equipment & wveighbndge                          700,000             1,000,000                  584,432                    83%
4 Consultant services                                         3,500,000            8,900,000                8,138,719                   232%
5. Unallocated                                               2,400,000                                             nil
6 Cancellcd 23 Dcc 1991                                                            2,000,000
7 Canccllcd 13 Aug 1993                                                                                    (4,247,906)
TOTAL                                                       32,000,000            30,000,000               25,751,847                    80%
B. IFADI)                                                 Aimotjnt of loan allocated
Original LoAn       Original Loan            As Finally                / Change
Schedule             Sche(lule              Amended
(SDRs)            (USS million              (SDRs)
equivaleffls)
1. Cattle                                                    7,350,000                 7T6                  5,500,000                    25%
2. Civil works                                                      nil                                            nil
3. Veteriniaiy eqtiipinciit & weighbridge                           il                                           nil
4. Coiisuiltanit services                                           ii                                        980,000
5. Equipmciit,fmnitiure, lools, machinery                     l,00,0((                  I I                  640,0(X)                  -10%
6 Vcliicles and motor cycles                                   970,000                   0,9                1,000,000                     3%
7. Training                                                    970,000                   1.0                2,180,000                   125%
8. Recovcry ofT/Assistance                                     127,275                   0.2                  127,275                     0%
9. Unallocatcd                                                1,122,725                  1 2                1,172,725                     4%
TOTAL                                                        I 1,60(),000               12.0               11,600,000



- 27 -
Table 7: PROJECT RESULTS
L Direct Benefits
Appraisal                                PCR
Estimate                             Estimate
Number Beneficiaries By Loan Closing Date
Number of farmers receiving cattle:
- from primary distribution Phase II                        76,500                              76,500
- from redistribution from Phase I & II                     55,000                              32,304
b. Economic Impact (Economic Rate of Return)
Appraisal                                PCR
Estimate                             Estimate
Whole project \1                                               25%                                14%
Calving rate of cattle up 10%                                                                     16%
Calving rate of cattle dowvn 10%                                                                   12%
Mortalities same as in procurement areas                                                          10%
\1 BCDIU Jembrana disease investigation and half of holding ground costs c\cludcd from the calculations on the
basis that these components provide benefits which accrue to overall industrn



Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement                                                                 Compliance
Article                      Covenant Description                            Date                     Status                      Comment
3,01(A)            Duc diligence and emciency.                                                        Complied
Provide prompily funds & facilities.                                               Complied
3.01(B)            Carried out project in accordance
with plan of operation in Schedule 5.                                              Complied
3.02               Procurement in accordance with
Schedule 4.                                                                        Complied
3.03(A)            Arrange: (i) a Financial Agreement
between GO6 B1J, and (ii) a Sub-
Financing Agreement beteen BRI/DGLS                                                Complied
3.03(C)            Anntially study the most appropriate
mcintods for providing credit aiid cooperative
services to recipients of catlie and                                               Complied       Studies 1986 through 1989        0
with the Bank's concurrence niake                                                                                                   I
ncccssary adjustmcnts
304                Distributie caltle to smallholders in
coniulunitiies that have becn seccetcd in
accordanee with ilte criteria set fonh
in Schedule S.                                                                     Complied
4. 01 (A)          Maintain records and accounts                                                      Complied
-1.0 I(B)(C)       Atldit                                                                             Complied.       1992/93 audit due 12/3 1/93
f.i l)(A)          All conditions precedent to effectiveness
of IFAD loan agrecment fulfilled and
Banuk appointed as cooperating inslitiution.                                       Complied
fi.ol(B)           Financing agreement GOI/BRI (3.03(A))
executed.                                            15-Feb-86                     Complied
6.) 1(C)           Subfinancing agreements BRI/DGLS (3.03(A))
executed.                                            10-Feb-86                     Complied



Tuble 9s USE OF BANK RESOURCES
a. STAFF INPUTS (staff weeks)
Fiscal
Year                 Preappraisal         Appraisal                  Negotiations               Supervision              Other                       Total
1985                                           19.9                                                                                                  19.90
1986                                                                        12.9                       0.10                                          13.00
1987                                                                                                   3.90                                           3.90
1988                                                                                                   5.10                                           5.10
1989                                                                                                   3.40                                           3.40
1990                                                                                                   6.30                                           6.30
1991                                                                                                  1(0.10                                         10.10
1992                                                                                                  10.70                                          10.70
1993                                                                                                   8.00                1.00                       9.00
1994                                                                                                                       7.00                       7.00
Tnlal                          0               19.9                         12.9                      47.60                8.00                      88.40
h). MISSIONS
Mandatory Rating Status \2
Days
Typc of                            No. of     in                                 Available      Project    Coven       Dcv.        Overall
Nlission                 Date    Persons   Ficid   Spccialikal.ion \1              Funds    Management   ants    Impact            Status
Appraisal                01/85       5       30    AE,E,I.,A,AI I
Supcrvision             06/X6        1        20    L.AI I,A                         2             2                    1             2
Supervision             01/87        1        12   1.                                2             2                    1             2
Supervision             07/87        2        21   IA                               2             2                    1             2
Supervision             09/88        2       n.a.   LA                               2             2                    1             2
Supervisioni            06/89       1       na..   1.                               2             2          2          1            2
Supervisiol              I 1/89      I       n a.   A                                 2            1          1         1             2
Supervision             (5/90        1        18    A                                2             2          1         2             2
Supervisionl            03/91        2        17    AF-A                             2             2          1         2             2
Supervision              11/91       3        22    AE,L,L                           2             2          1         2             2
Supervision             08/92        2        10    AE,A                             2             2         . 1        2             2
Completion              02/93        2        25    AE,L
\I L=Liveslock, AE=Economist; A=Agriculturist; AH=Animal healtli, E-Economist
\2 1 =problem frce or minor problems; 2=moderale problems; 3= major problems



Table 10: CATTLE POPULATION BY PROVINCE AND BY PROJECT
Prloj ccts
IFAD %
Provincc                 IAD) I IFAD) 2    IFAI)  A'111I) AI'UIN TRANS ANPIRLS   SlS/ I ASII P                   IFAD  % Provincial  Prov.
1&2                                     [BRD)             Total    Total    Total      Total
South Sumatra             14,300  20,900    35,200     571     734    693                          720    73,118     48%    333,971      11%
Riau                      15,309  11,000    26,309   2,364     809    923      3,052                73    59,839     44%    125,736      21%
B3cngkulu                  7,536   6,050    13,586      40    883    677       2,978               832    32,582     42%      95,984     14%
Jambi                      5,928   6,600    12,528   2,514     402    684        274   5,628    1,235   35,793       35%      92,180     14%
Lampung                    7,700   6,600    14,300   3,639    957              3,394               881    37,471     38%    258,915       6%
West Sumuatra                     13,200    13,200     9X8     924             2,829             1,521    32,662     40%    366,440       4%
Soutli Sulawesi                    7,70)0    7,700   1,674     885      74       136              694    18,863      41%   1,273,992      1%
Central Sulawesi                   6,600     6,600     553    474    542        1,560            1,256    17,585     38%    349,040       2%
Soutlicast Silawesi                6,600     5,500   X,169   2,294              1,191  13,212      825    37,791     15%    224,278       2%
Total                     50,773  85,250   134,923  20,512   8,362   3,593    15,414  18,840    8,037   345,704            3,120,536-
%                            15%    25%        39%      6%      2%      1%        4%      5%        2%      100%                 11%



TMilel 11: IERtD PRODUCTION COEFFICIENTS
I'PROCUREMEN T ARtEA                                                 D)ISTRIBUTION AllEA
(wvi(liont projlec)                                                  (ivilli project)
N1-l'        N'1'li    SIJLSI-N    MAJUI(A        Avcragc                         PIUMARY         I-'[/F2+
CALVING %
1-2 YO                                  0            0             0            0             0                                 0            0
2-3 YO                                  2             2            2            2             2                                  2           45
3-4 YO                                 56           66            45           45            49                                50            50
44- YO                                 56           66            45           45            49                                50            65
MIORTALITY % \1
0-1 YO                                 28            10           20            20           22                                  4            4
1-2 YO                                  7            3             4            4             5                                 3             3
2-3YO                                   7             3            4             4            5                                  2            2
3-4 YO                                  7             3            4            4             5                                  2            2
4+ YO                                   7             3            4             4            5                                  2            2
MALE OFFSPRING SALES
agc                                    1.5          1.5           1.5          1.5           1.5                               1.5           1.5
liveweight (kg)                       135           135          135           150          138                                150          150
Rp/kg live                           I800         1800          18(0         1800          1800                              1800          1800
CULL COW SALES
age                                     9             9            9             9            9                                  9            9
livcwciglit (kg)                      350          350           350          350           350                               380           380
Rp/kg livc                           1800         1800         100         W180)          1800                              1800          1800
CULL SIRE SALES
age                                     9             9            9             9            9                                  9            9
livcwcight                            450          450           450          450           450                               450          450
Rplkg livc                           2000         2000          2000         2000         2000                               2000         2000
No. hcifcrs shipped                 28710         1980         38610        14850
out durinig Pliase ll                 34%            2%          46%           18%
\I Withiouit lProject figuiics mainly f[oii Easterni Island I lcm(i lPlol-ile Rtepoit (1990)



Table 12: FARMING SYSTEM PROFILE IN DISTRIBUTION AREAS \1
RAIN-FED FOOI) CROP                   PiR ESTAITE CROP                  IRRIGATED FOOD CROP
Project       Noii                  lrojcct       Non                    Project       Non
Project                            Project                              Project
(Rp.'000 per year)
FARM GROSS MARGIN
Food crops                                     389          285                     90                                  744
Estate crops                                    28           55                    334                                   62
Livcstock                                        8 1          17                    65                                   40
Total Farm Gross Margin                         497         357                    489            0                     846            0
OFF-FARM  WORK                                 299          468                    466                                  343
Tolal family income                            796          X25                    955            0                     1189           0
No. of farmers Phase I                       595()0         xxxx                 15500          xxxx                   3500          xxxx
Person-days worked                             650          692                    615                                  650
% Person-days ,worked off-frirm                23%          331o                   26%                                  23%
\1 Socio Economic Survcy 1990 based on Phase I farmers



Table 13: CREDIT IIERD PROJECTION 1/
Calving Rate 50%; Calf Mortality 4%; Credit Herd Losscs 6%
450,074   Total Redistributed Females (New Farmers)
404,192   lotal Culls (head)                                                                Data in table refrs to thousands ofhead
109,132   Valie ofSales (Rp '000,000)                                                               Years Post Initial Distribution-
Generation         O        1   | 2   |3 |4                                          S   |          |  10     - 11I|  12      13  |  14        15      16      17         IS
nlull s(FO)              13       12      12        It    10        S       2       0
CovH (FO)                133     125     117     110       S3      33       6        0
CAIves (FI)                        9      69      S4       75      5I      14       0
Bulls (FI)                                         2        5       7       9       9        9       7       4       2        I       0       0       0
Cows (FI)                                         19       45      69      86      83      72       50      28       12       4       1       0       0
Calves (F2)                                                 7      27      44      56       5S      45      29       15       6       1       0       0
Bulls (F2)                                                          0        I      2        4       5       7       S       7        6       5       3       2        I       0
Cows (F2)                                                           I       8      20       37      54      67      71      65       52      36      22       12       5       2
Calves (F3)                                                                 0        4      1 1     22      34      43      45       41      32      21       12       6       2
Bulls (F3)                                                                                   0       0              2        3       4       6       6       6        6       5
Cows (F3)                                                                                    I       3       9      19      31       44      54      59      57      49       39
Calves (F4)                                                                                          0       2       5       I 1     19      23      34      37       36      30
Bulls (F4)                                                                                                   0       0       0        0              2       3        4       5
Cows (F4)                                                                                                    0       0        2       4      10      17      27       37      45
Calves (F5)                                                                                            I0                     0       I       2       6       tO      1 6     23
[kills (F5)                                                                                                                           0       0       0       0       0        I
Cows (FS)                                                                                                                             0       0        I      2        5       9
Calves (F6)                                                                                                                                   0       0       0        1       3
Hulls (F6)                                                                                                                                            0       0       0        0
Cows (F6)                                                                                                                                             0       0        0       0
Coalves (F7)                                                                                                             ___0                                          0       0
TOTAL -           146 1 146    199    226 r226             195 1 170 I 179          191     158     181      177      75      74     173      171     168     166      1641



lfd Comiionl
NUBs                   _              3      15 23                                        1 2     1 2     ,2      1._                                                    _
Cowlu'meS               133     125     117     129      123     102     100    IoU      109    lOt    10S       102      101     101     100      99     97       96      95
Calves(<Itmths)                   9      69      34      33       73      5       601    69       63      651    63       62      62       62     611    60        51
Saks A Redistrilutions
RedisL Bul-                                        I _             2       2         -     I       2       2       2 |              I       I               I I             I II
Redist Cows                                      15       15      15      17      14      14    15    15         15      14      14      14      14      13      13      12
Culls                                            13       13      14      I5      13      13      14      141    13        13      131    13       121    12         1      1
Generalional Composition (Breeding Cows)
FO             133     125     117     110      83       33       6
Fl                                      19      45       69      86 |     3      72      50      23      12        4       I
F2                                                        I       8      20      37      54      67      71      65      52      36      22       12       5       2
F3                                                                                1       3       9      19      31       44      54      59      57      49      39
F4                                                                                                                2        4      10      17      27      37      45
F5                                                                                                                                         I       2       S       9
1/ Projedion Model rom  Institutionalistion Study
Includes losses due to dcath, infertility, loss etc.



Tablc 14: CREDIT HERD PROJECTION 1/
Calving Rate 65%; Calf Mortality 4%; Credlt llcrd Losses 6%
450,074   Total Redistributcd Fenales (New Farmers)
404,192   lotal Culls (head)                                                              Data in table refers to thousands ofhead
109,132   Valte ofSalcs (Rp '000,000)                                                             YCars Post Initial D)istribution
(;,cnmrtion        0   |   I   |  2   |   3   |  4   |   5                                          I 6   |  7  X   |  9   |  10  I I1    12  |  13  |  14  1  15  [  16  [  17  1|
Btills (rO)              13      12       12     _I       10       8       2       0
Cows (ro)               133     125     117      110      83      33       6       0
Calves(rl)                        9      88      110      98      67      19       0
flulls (FI)                                       2       6        9    _I        12      -l       9       6       3        I       0       0       0
Cows (I-1)                                       23      58       88     III    114       94      65      37       16       5       I       0       0
Calves (F2)                                        0       9      39      68      90      95      77      50      26       10       2       0       0
Bulls (F2)                                                         0       I       3       6       9      1 1      12     12       10       8       5       3       2       I
Cows (1:2)                                                         I      10      29      56      85     107      115     106      86      61      37      20       9       3
Calves (13)                                                        0       0       5      19      40      64      85      92       86      68      46      27      13       5
lBulls (F3)                                                                                0       I       2       3       6        9      II      13      13      12      10
Cows (1:3)                                                                                 I       5       16     33      58       85     107    118      117    103       82
Calves (1-4)                                                                               0       0       3       10     23      42       64      83      94      93      82
Bulls (I 4)                                                                                                0       0       0        I       2       4       6       9      II
Cows (1F4)                                                                                                 (I       I       3       8      20      37      61      86     109
Calves (FS)                                                                      _                         0       0        0       I       5      13      26      44      65
Bulls (F5)                                                                                                                         0        0       0       0       I       2
Cows (F5)                                                                                                                           0       0       I       S      II1     23
Calves (F6)                                                                                                                         0       0       0       5       3       7
Bulls (F6)                                                                                                                                          0       0       0       0
Cows (F6)                                                                                                                                           0       0       0       1
Calves (F7)                                                                                      _                            _0                            0       0       0
TOTAL             146     146     217    256    264       244     229    253    281       289    294    303    316    332          346    359    372    387    402



Herd CZttiositior
Bulls                     1 3     12       - I    13       16       4      15 IS    I       171-                     191    19       20      21      22      23      23      24
______________ 1   1131   125            117     134     141      12R     148     143      150     155     159     165o 172         IF0     137     194    202    210    21R
Calves (<I mOss)                   9      8     109      106      R7      95      95      114  117    117         120      125     131     137     142     147    158      160
Sulci & Rcdistr,illi,ots
Redist. Bulls                            -         2        2       2       2       2        2       2       3                  3         3    3      3       3       3        3
Rcdi-t Cows                                       19       19      20      22      20       21      24      25      26      27       28      29      30      31 | 321        34
Culls                   _                         17       17      18      20       I8      19      22      23      231    24        251    26       27      28 1 291    30
Generationial Composition (Breeding Cows
0  O           133      125     117     110      83       33       6
F 1                                      23      5S       88     III     114      94       65      37      16 |     5 
12                                                         I      10      29      56       85    107      115     106       36     61       37      20       9       3
F3                                                                           |              5      16      33      53       35    107    lII       117    103       82
F4                                                                                                          1       3        8     20       37      61      86    109
1/ Projecion Model ftom Instilutionalisalion Study
Includes losses due to dcalth, infertility, loss etc.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2628-IND)
JEMIBRANA DISEASE INVESTIGATION
Background
1.         Jembrana disease affects only Bali cattle and first appeared as a major outbreak on Bali
Island in 1964 when an estimated 26,000 head of cattle died over a three-year period. It was first
diagnosed as rinderpest. A second outbreak, though less severe, occurred in 1982 when, in some areas,
mortality rates of 15% to 20%  were recorded. In 1982, the Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit
(BCDIU) was established as a specialist unit within the Denpasar Disease Investigation Centre (DIC) to
study Jembrana and similar diseases, such as Banyuwangi and Rama Dew a. Because of the potential of
Jembrana disease to adversely affect a project which was based primarily on transhipping and handling
Bali cattle, the BCDIU was supported by Phase I of the Smallholder Cattle Development Project.
2.         The BCDIU had made some progress prior to the start of Phase II in 1986, but positive
identification of the causative organism remained elusive and a methodology for Jembrana disease
diagnosis not fully developed.  Also little was known about the epidemiology, including the
immunological aspects and carrier states. The SAR for Phase II included a Jembrana disease investigation
component.
Achievements or BCDIU in Jembrana Disease Investigation in Phase II
3.         By March 30, 1993, the BCDIU had substantially achieved the research objectives identified
in the SAR. The BCDIU had: (a) identified the causative organism to be the one of the retrovirus group,
probably a lentivirus"; (b) developed sensitive and specific serological tests to detect antibody in infected
cattle; (c) produced a vaccine using plasma from acutely infected cattle; (d) made some progress on
determining the optimal method of vaccine preparation; (e) established that the transmission of Jembrana
disease required close contact between acutely infected and susceptible animals; (f) shown disease
transmission is mediated by contact with infected saliva or by mechanical transmission of virus in blood
by biting anthropods (possibly Tabanid species); (g) shown that the disease produces an acute illness for
"          The lentivirus group of retroviruses includes human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
and bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV).



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
Kalimantan); and () shown that cattle which have recovered from a disease outbreak are persistently
infected with the virus and have developed protective immunity.
Further Work
4.          Notwithstanding BCDIU's commendable research and development achievement on
Jembrana disease, the high cost of production of the vaccine, at about Rp 15,000/dose, together with the
probable need for three doses to achieve reasonable immunity and uncertainty about the duration of
immunity, precludes the commercial application of vaccination-based disease control strategy. Some
questions also remain about the stability of the vaccine wvith storage. BCDIU advise that two options exist
for possible significant reduction in vaccine cost but further research is required. Firstly, vaccine cost
could be reduced to about Rp 3,500/dose if spleen tissue from infected animals could be used as a source
of immunogen. One spleen from one animal could provide 2,000 doses, compared to 60 doses per
animal using plasma. BCDIU consider there is a high probability of a successful outcome from spleen-
sourced immunogen for vaccine production. This work could be completed in four months. Secondly,
vaccine costs could be more substantially reduced, to about Rp 1,0001dose, if it was possible to utilize
-the antigenetically related bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV) as a live virus vaccine for control of
Jembrana disease. BIV does not produce disease in Bos taurus and will replicate in cell culture. It is
not known if BIV exists in Indonesia but, in the absence of such inforrmation, this option would require
the importation of BIV (with GOI approval) into Indonesia. The risk is that BIV, unlike its effect on Bos
taurus cattle, might produce disease in Bali cattle. However, because of the need for animals to be in
close contact for BIV to be transmitted, BCDIU consultants believe the risk is minimal if the research
is carried out in an isolated island situation and the animals are slauchtered and carcasses burnt after the
completion of the short duration experiment. This work could be completed in about 8 months.
..          Other research required to complete the development of a commercially satisfactory vaccine
for Jembrana disease includes research on: (a) stability of vaccine; (b) duration of immunity; (c) optimal
vaccination time; and (d) cell culture studies. According to BCDIU, this work could be completed by
March 30, 1994. Furthermore, to facilitate the development of an overall strategy for Jembrana disease
control, more research should be done on Tabanid transmission and the distribution of the disease needs
to be monitored by ongoing serological surveillance.
Justification of Further Work
6.          The BCDIU is probably on the verge of producing a low-cost vaccine which will provide
protective immunity against Jembrana disease in susceptible cattle. Serological surveys have shown
Jembrana disease to be more widely distributed throughout Indonesia than originally suspected, and ips
fact2, puts at risk a greater population of susceptible animals to severe outbreaks. Defense of naive
populations by restricted movement of cattle out of infected areas and by quarantine is difficult to enforce
but, when imposed with adequate rigor, inevitably depresses market price of cattle in the quarantined
area. Researchers postulate that the past cyclical history of severe outbreaks on Bali Island is a
population dynamic phenomena whereby the proportion of naive animals in any population at any time,
and therefore its susceptibility to a major outbreak, is a function of the time elapsed since the last
outbreaks have occurred on Bali Island since 1982, although on average about 1% of the population is
reported to be affected each year. An important unanswered question, which impinges on the economic
importance of the disease to the Indonesian cattle industry and on possible long-term disease management



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
strategies, is the probability of transmission occurring from recovered but persistently infected animals.
If there is a very low probability of transmission from persistently infected animals and therefore the
prerequisite of a disease outbreak is the introduction of an acutely affected animal into a susceptible herd,
the frequency of serious disease outbreaks occurring in the future and the attendant economic importance
of the disease could be low. The need for a vaccine for a disease management strategy would be less
critical.
7.          Given the Bali cattle population of Indonesia is about 3 million and if there is the potential
for a serious outbreak in 5% of the population every 10 years killing 20% of the animals in the exposed
herd, the average annual mortality from this disease would amount to 3,000 head. At Rp 400,000 per
head the annual value of such a loss would be Rp 1,200 million. If adequate disease control was possible
by a 3-dose vaccination of 10% of the national herd each year and the cost of the 3-dose vaccination
course was Rp 3,000/head, the annual national cost of Jembrana vaccine could be Rp 900 million. This
analysis suggests that production of a low cost vaccine must be a research priority for its use to be
economically justified. More importantly, it suggests that annual routine nationwide vaccination, even
at a low unit cost, may not be economically justified and the development of a disease management
strategy based on strategic and selective use of the vaccine should be a planning imperative for the DGLS.
Recommendations
8.          That external funding by IFAD be extended to March 30, 1994, to cover research activities
associated with the production of a low-cost vaccine and the elucidation of transmission of virus by the
biting insect Tabanid. These activities would include: (a) use of spleen tissue as a source of immunogen
for vaccine production; (b) improved stability of the vaccine; (c) studies on the duration of immunity;
(d) studies on optimal vaccination time; (e) studies on cell culture; (f) investigation of the possibility of
utilizing BIV as a live virus vaccine; and (g) Tabanid transmission studies. This funding would be
conditional upon GOI concurrently funding further serological surveys of Jembrana disease and upon the
DGLS undertaking to prepare a strategic plan for the control of Jembrana disease using a low cost
vaccine.



I



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BUDGET FOR EXTENSION OF JEMBRANA INVESTIGATION COMPONENT
TO MARCH 30, 1994
Item                                          US$
Cattle                                                                          28,000
Cattle feed                                                                     16,170
Chemicals and reagents                                                          22,000
Small equipment                                                                 10,000
Bench centrifuge (low speed)                                                     6,000
High-speed ultra centrifuge                                                     60,000
Subtotal                                                                     142,170
Professional fees (6mm x 12,000)                                                72,000
Per diem (180 x 120)                                                            21,600
Plane tickets (6 x 1,200)                                                        7,200
Visa and i,Jand travel                                                           1,250
Subtotal                                                                    102.050
TOTAL                                                                          244,220



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
LIST OF REPORTS AND STUDIES
REPORT TITLE                                               AUTHOR                           CONIAEiNT
1.   Forage Reports                                        ANZDEC                           A special study consistent with SAR, Annex 6,
para 14(c)R, Annex 6, 14, c.
2.   Project Impact Study (1987-1990)                      BMB                              In response Lo Schedule 5, Part D in the Loan
Agreement whereby the Borrower shall annually
monmtor the socio-economic impact.
3.   Goat Procurement                                      SPEKTRAIANZDEC                   Request of IBRD
4.   Privatization of Cattle Distribution Locations        SPEKTRAJANZDEC                   Request of IBRD
5.   Bai Cattle Herd Structure in Eastern Islands          PPA                              Requcst of IBRD
6.   The Development of KUDs to Assume Project             SPEKTRAIANZDEC                   SAR, para. 4. 10, requising an annual review of
Credit                                                                                most appropnatemcehodofproviding creditand
cooperative services to farmers
7.   Mineral Deficiency in Project Area. Jambi             PPAJANZDEC                       A special study consistent with SAR, Annex 6,
Province, Sumatra                                                                     para 14(b)
8.   Project Socio-Economic Impact                         ANZDEC                           A spccial study consistent with SAR, Annex 6,
para. 14(a)
9.   Women in Proiec.                                      ANZDEC                           A special study consistent with SAR, Annex 6,.
para 141a)
10.  Impact on Farmers in Seed Production Areas of         BMB                              A special study consistentwith SAR, Annex 6,
NTT and NTB                                                                           para. 14(a)
11.  Credit Status in Distribution Area                    BMB
12.  An Analysis of Technology Adoption by SHCDP           BMB                             A special study consistent with SAR. Annex 6,
Farmers in Riau (1992)                                                                para. 14(c)
13.  Environmental Impact Assessment (1992)                Mr. John Weir, A.NZDEC          A special study consistent wiLh SAR, Annex 6,
paraa 14(a)
14.  Institutionalisation (1993)                           Bruce SLewart, ANZDEC           A specialstudyconsistentwithSAR, Annex6,
para. 14(b)
15.  A Technical Handbook (1992)                           ANZDEC                          As recommended by supervision mission October
1991
16.  Report of Farming Svstems Specialist (1990)           David Quane, ANZDEC
17.  Potential for Privatisation of Forage Secd
Component                                            ANZDEC                           Requested by IBRD
1



ANNEX 3
Tabic I
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(USS'OOO)
lInvest.icnt                 less BCDIU/   less F/gate    Post Project                                                  Livestock
Year      IFAD/13RD        GO         lUIground \l      Price U    Operating Cost \   Total Cost         Crop Benefits \3       Beneflts \4         Net Cash Flow
1    86/87                 155          1125                             118                           1162                                                           -1162
2    87/88                3323           953              858           351                            3067                      277                                  -2790
3    88/89               11645           731             1174          2574                           8628                       911                  30              -7687
4    89/90                 524          1065              479             76                           1034                     1522                  97                585
5    90/91                6185          1333              512          1220                           5786                      2143                 222              -3421
6    91/92                5833          1335             1293           1262                          4613                      2742                 417              -1454
7    92/93               16138          1199              794          3897                           12646                     3063                 597              -8986
8    93/94                                                                               1229          1229                     3651                 757               3179
9    94/95                                                                               1057          1057                     3899                 961               3803
10    95/96                                                                               891           891                      4165                1106               4380
if   96/97                                                                                891           891                     4441                 1340               4890
12    97/98                                                                               891            891                     4715                1512               5336
13    98/99                                                                               891            891                     4997                1822               5928       1
14    99/00                                                                               891            891                     5278               2248                6635       t)
35    00/03                                                                               891            891                     5560                2746               7415
16    01/02                                                                               891            891                     5848                3326               8283
17    02/03                                                                               891            891                     6140                3973               9222
18    03/04                                                                               891            891                     6435               4682               10226
19    04/05                                                                               891            891                     6732                5559              11400
20    05/06                                                                                99            891                     7032               10935              17076
\I All I t'I )l.J tosts alld 50% holding glondil Cots C\LIiided Iroin cost sltedilm as conti hiibli6g to whole catIle indilsiry
\2 Only transport and handling cosis included
\3 Sce Annex 3, table 3 for assinptlions
\4 Annex 3, table 4 Assuines post project growtlh in beneficianes eqtuals redistributioni from credit herd; see Annex 6
\S Itased on incremcntal herd production betweeni procuirement and distribtilion areas, incremental salvagc value applied in year 20



ANNEX 3
GOI EXPENDITURE BY FINANCIAL YEAR                                                                    Table 2
Disbursement                                      liinancial Year
SAR    Revisel            86/87     87/88      88/89     89/90     90/91     91/92     92/93      Total
% COI    % GOI
(Rp inillionl)
Cattle                                  15          0            366.0                                                                    366
Civil Works                             40         18             20.5     383.1       12.3      99.9      175.8    197.6       0.0       889
Consultants                              0          0                                                                                       0
Training                                  0         0                                                                                       0
Vchicles & motor cycles                 20          0                                                                                       0
Vet, equip. & weighbridge               40         40                      118.7      129.6      111.8    139.2     133.2      59.9       692
Office firniture,tools equip.           50         50             13.1     162.9      157.8      186.9     158.7     146.0                825
L-h. animals,seed,fert.                                           35.4      30.5       11.3      23.4      31.3      90.8                 223
Administration                          100       100            835.0     937.8      901.1    1428.5    1895.0    1982.4   2429.1      10409
Tech. assist. proj. prep.                 0         0                                                                                       0
Total                                                           1270.1    1632.9     1212.1    1850.5   2400.0    2550.0    2489.0    13405  w
Exchange Rate Rp:USS                                              1129      1714       1659      1738      1800      1910      2075
(US$ Ilaillholl)
Catlde                                   15         0            0.324     0.000      0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000      0.324
Civil Works                             40         18            0.018     0.224      0.007     0.057     0.098     0.103     0.000      0.508
Consultants                              0          0            0,00(     0.000      0.0()0    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000
Training                                 0          0            0.000     0 00       0.000     0.0       0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000
Vehicles & molor cycles                 20          0            0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000
Vet. equip. & weighbridge               40         40            0.000     0.069      0.078     0.004     0.077     0.070     0.029     0:388
Office furniture,tools equip.           50         50            0.012     0.095      0.095     0.108     0.088     0.076      0.000     0.474
Lah. animals,seed,fert.                                          0.031     0.018      0.007     0.013     0.017     0.048     0.000     0.134'
Administration                          100       100            0.740     0.547      0.543     0.822      1.053     1.038     1.171     5.913
Tech. assisl. proj. prep.                0          0            0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000
Tolal                                                            1.125     0.953      0.731      1.065     1.333     1.335     1.199     7.741



ANNEX 3
Table 3
POST PROJECT OPERATING COSTS - PllASE If
Project Ycar            PMO \I            PMU \1 \2          SATGAS \3       M/cyclcs & 4x4s \4       Tolal              Total
(Rp000)            (RpO00)            (Rp000)            (Rp000)            (RpO000)          (US$000)
2
3
4
5
6
7
8                        718721             333000             785000             714200            2550921                1229
9                        474356             219780             785000             714200            2193336                1057
10                       239334              110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
11                       239334              110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
12                       239334              110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
13                       239334              110889            785000              714200            1849423                891
14                       239334              110889            785000              714200            1849423                891
15                       239334              110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
16                        239334             110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
17                       239334              110889            785000             714200             1849423                891
1                       239334              110889            785000              714200            1849423                891
19                       239334              11(889             785000             714200            1849423                891
20                        239334             110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
21                        239334             110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
22                        239134             11(3889            785000             714200            1849423                891
23                        239334             1108X9             785000             714200            1849423                891
24                        239334             11(889             785000             714200            1849423                891
25                        239334             110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
26                        239334             11089             785000             714200            1849423                891
27                        239334             110889             785000             714200            1849423                891
28                        239334            I1(889              785000             714200            1849423                891
\1 Front DIP; assume PMO and PMU absorbcd into DGLS & contract to one-tlhird and stabilises in year 10
\2 9 I'lIU relating to Phase If t Rp37 million'\PMU olFice
\3 Rp5.0 milliont per year per SATGAS unit; 157 units Phasc If
\4 157 SATGAS requirinig 16 4x4s, 157 rn/cycles; 30 kabupalcn (Plhase 11) 30 4x4s,90mn/cyclcs
9 PMUs requiring 9 4x4s and 27 n/cycles; fuel,oil,R&M & replaccincit cost
4x4s @ Rp9 million/unit/yr and in/cycles @ Rp800,000/unitl/yr



ANNEX 3
Table 4
CROP BENEFIT STREAM
Ptoject                  No. of Additional Farmers                    Progressive No of             Incremental Foodcrop
Year                         Receiving Cattle                       Fanners with Cropping               Gross Margin
Benefit \3                    (US$'1000)\4
Primary      Redistr. \1       Foodcrop
IFarmers \2
1                    7000                        5544
2                   16000                       12672                         5544                         277
3                   15000        438            12227                       1216                          911
4                   14000       1669            12410                        30443                         1522
5                   12000       3140            11991                        42853                        2143
6                    3500       4601             6416                        54844                        2742
7                    9000       5853            11764                        61260                        3063
8                               6247             4948                        73024                        3651
9                               6726             5127                        77972                        3899
10                               6973             S523                        83299                        4165
11                               6925             5484                        88822                        4441
12                               7109             5630                        94306                        4715
13                               7106             5628                        99936                        4997
14                               7127             5644                       105564                        5278
15                               7275             5762                       111208                        5560
16                               7367             s835                       116970                        5849
17                               7438             S891                       122805                        6140
18                               7505             5944                       129696                        6435
19                               7568             5994                       1 4640                        6732
20                               7617             Wfl33                      140634                        7032
21                               765X             (,065                       146667                       7333
22                               7683              ()085                      152732                       7637
23                               7686             6087                       158817                        7941
24                               7694             6093                       164904                        8245
25                               7694             6093                        170997                        8550
26                               7694            6fi93                       177090                        8855
27                               7694             6093                       183183                        9159
28                               7694             6093                       189276                        9464
\1 Based on AiuiCx 5, Report 14 credit lherd model using calving rate 50%, adult mortality 2%,
calf mortality 4% but discounted to equate actual redistributions by March,1993
\2 assume project average of 76% of whom 90% are successful, comprise all of 76% rainfed fooderop farners, all of 3% irrigation farmers and hal fof 20% rubber producers
\3 lagged I year
\4 From Socio-economic study Annex 4, Table 2 being Rpl 04,000/year



ANNEX 3
Table 5
INCREMENTAL REVENUE' FOR LIVESTOCK COMPONENT (US$'000)
1      2       3       4       5       f       7       8       9     tO      II      12      14      15      16      17      18      19      20
86/87
Number female cattle
distributed                75735   6930  15840  14850  13860  11880   340i5   8910
Incremental Rcvenue:
- Yr I distributlion                    0       0     30      29      92      85      96     106    133    154    165    199         339    400    464    551    642        743    5329
-Yr 2 distribution                              0      0      67      67    2110    195    220    242    303    353    378          684    775    915   1061   1259    1467    1698
- Yr 3 distiibution                                    0       0      63      61    197    182    206    227    284    331          427    642    726    857    995    1180    1375
-Yr 4 distribution                                             0       0      59      59     183    170    192    212    265        331    398    599    678    800         928    1101
-Yr 5distribution                                                      0       0      51      50    157    146    165    182        265    284    341    513    581         686      796
-Yr 6 distribution                                                             0       0      Is      15      46     43      48      66      77      83    100    150       169      200
-Yr 7 distribution                                                                     0       0      38      38    118    109       136    171    198    213    256        385      436
Ton;ml Incremental Rccnimci             0       0     30      97    222    417    597    757    961   110   1340   1512   2248   2746   3326   3973   4682    5559   10935



Smialilholder Livestocli Developinmeit Plroject                                                                                                ANNEX 3
PRODUCTIVITY OF 100 IIEIFEIRS ANI) 10 BULLS  (WYITI1 PROJECT)                                                                                           Tabluc6
llerd Inventory                               1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8        1       1(         11     12        14       IS       16       17       Is        19        20
Calves 0-I ycars                                        0        2       48       43        39       36       41       49       53        56       78       92      100      113       127     141       156       173
lcir en 1-2ayean                            100        0         0        1       23       21        19       17       21       24       25       27        41       44       48        54      61        68        75
1lcifLsn 2-3 ycan                                     92         0        0         1      23        20      1        17       20       21       25        36       39       42       45       51        57        62
Cows  over3yean                                         0       96       86       78       71        86       97      1(15     III       120      130      153      173      194      216      238       264       291
IMales  1-2yean                                        0         0        1       23       21        19       17       21       24       25       27        41       44       48       54       61        68        75
Males  2 years +                             10       10        10        9        9        1 1      13       13       14       15        16       19       23       26       28       31       35        38        42
Total llerd                                 110      10       108      146      177     15        192      207      227      247      266      306       386      426      473      527      586       651       721
Om.kL
Cows                                          0         0       10        9        8         7        9       10       II       II        12       13       15       17        19      22       24        26       293
Ileirffs  1-2yean                             0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0       0         0        0        0        0        0         0        75
Males  1-2yean                                0         0        0        1       20        1R       16       15      1I        20       20       22        35       38       41        46      52        58        75
Males  2 yen% +                               0         0        0        0         I        I        I        I         1       2         2        2        2        3         3        3        3        4        42       -4
I otal                                        0         0       10        9       28        26       26       26       30       33       34       37        52       58       63       71       79        Ss       486
NiortaUly
cair                                          0         0        0        2        2         2        1        2        2        2         2        3        4        4         5        5        6         6        7
Adult fenales                                 2         2        2        2        2         2        2        3        3        3         3        4        5        5         6        6        7         8        9
Adult nmalcs                                  0 0           0         0        0        0             0        0        0        0         0       0         0                 I        I        I         I 
TecIsnlcal Coemclents
Calving raIc cot"  %                                                     50       50        50       50       50       50       50       50       65        65       65       65        65      65        65        65
Calving talc 1-2 yo %                                   0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
CalvingFalc2-3 yo %                                     2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2        2         2        2
Calfmortality %                               4         4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4         4        4        4         4        4
Adult noFtality %                             2         2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2
CullirtgCows %                                0        0        10       10       10        10       10       10       10       10        10       10       10       10        10       10       10        10      100
Culling Ileifen 1-2 yo *-                                                                                                                                                                                          100
Ctilling NIalcs 1-2 yo%                      90       90        90       90       85       R5        85       85       85       85       80       t3        85       85       85        t5      85        t5       100
Culling Males 2 yo + %                                                            10        10       10       10       10       10        10      10        10       10        10       10       10        10      100
% Ihulli                                    10.%   10%         10%      11%       9%       10%      10%      10%      10%      10%      10%      10%       10%      10%      10%       10%     10%       10%       10V/
ltcsrnic (ItpOtlO)
tows                               684        0         0    6569    5912    5321    4851         5879    6650    7206    7610    8205    t912    10439   11815   13249   14745   16303    18011   200654
llcifc   1-2 years                 250        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0    11713
tialei  1-2 ycrs                   270        0        0         0      229    5290    4761    4287    3956    4779    5395    5496    6028              9313   10179   11008   12455   13962    15535    20210
tlalcs  2 yeus 4                   900        0        0         0        0      K17    100)6    1128    1211        1268    1359      1471     1707    2082    2110    2552    2807    3105            3444    38229
iual                                         0         0    6569    6141   1144K    10618   11294   11818   13253   14365   15172   16646   21904   24304   26808   30006   33370    37060   277806



Smaliliol(ler Livestock Development Project                                                                                               ANNEX 3
PrIOI)UCTIVITY OF o0 IIEiERS AND 10 IIULI,S  (WIT l1OUT PROJECT)                                                                                      Tolie 7
Yeasr
llerd Invenlory                             1        2        3        4        5        6        7       a        9       to       11       12       14       IS       16      17       IS        19       20
Calves 0-1 yews                                      0        2       44       40       16       33       37      40       43       44       46       51       53       56       53      61        64       67
l-lelrn  1-2yean                          100        0        0        1       17       16       14       13     15       16       17       17       19       20       21      22       23        24       2S
licifcn 2.3yen                                      95        0        0        1       16       15       13      12       14       15       16       17       IS       Is       19      20        21       22
Cows  over 3 yeas                                    0       90       3l       73       66       75       S2      36       B9       93       98      Ing      113      III     124      130       136      142
kMales  1-2years                                     0        0         1      17       16       14       13      15       16       17       17       19       20       21      22       23        24       25
Males  2 yeas+                              10      10        9        9        8       10       10       11       II      12       12       13       14       15       16      16       17        1           19
TOaI Herd                                 110     10      10l      136      156      159      162      169     179    19        193      201      223      233      250     261      274       236      299
omake
COWS                                        O        0        9         3       7        7        3        *       9        9        9       10       II I     1       12       12      13        14      142
lleilti 1-2yean                              0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       25
IMals  I-2ayeas                             0        0        0         1      14       12       11       10      12       13       13       14       15       16       17       17      It        19       25
Ialecs  2 year +                             0       0        0        0        I        I        I        I        I        I        I       I        I        1        2       2        2         2        19
Ieoal                                        0        0       9        9       22       20       20       20      21       23       24       25       27       29       30       31      33        34      211
Mlortallty
Calf                                         0        0        0      10        9        3        7        3       9        9       10       10       11       12       12       13      13        14        15
Adull frnales                                5        5        5       4        5        5        5        5       6        6        6        7        7        S        I        t       9         9        9
Adult niales                                 I       0        0        0        0        0        I        I        1        I        I       1        I        I        I        I       I         I         I
Teelulncal Coemc2ents
Calving fatet ws  %                                          49       49       49       .29      49       49      49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49      49        49       49
Calvingrale 1.2 yo %                                 0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0         0        0
Calving rate 2-3 yo %                                2        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2         2        2
Call moitaliy %                            22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22      22       22       22       22       22       22       22      22       22        22       22
AdultnUlity %                               5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5       5        5        5        5        5        5        5       5        5         5        5
CullingCows%                                 0       0        10      10       10       10       10       10      10       20       10       10       10       10       10       10      10        10      100
Culling Ilcifers 1.2 yo %                                                                                                                                                                                  100
Culling Mdals 1-2 yo%                      90       30       3O       3O       sO       80       SO       *0      SO       SO       SO       30       tO       30       tO      3O       3O        30      200
Culling Maks 2 yo 4%                                                           20       10       20       10      10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10      10        10      100
% bulls                                   IOh      10%      IO%      10%       9%      10%      I0%      10%     10%      10%      10%      10%      10%      I0%      10%     10%      10%       10%      10%
Revenue (RpOOO)
Cows                             630        0        0    5636    5117    4605    41R7    4754    5162    5433    5621    53R0    6179    6303    7123    7459    7310    3174                   3551    89407
llcilen 1-2 yean                 210        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0         0     )733
MIIal   1-2 yean                 243        0        0        0      144    3353    3017    2717    2494    2326    3064    3225    3335    3667   3153    4037    4227    4426                 4634      6063
Males  2years4                   900        0        0        0        0      743      864     944      991    1016    1060    1114    1170         1225    1147    1412    1432    1552        1621    17046
TONI                                        0        0    5636    5261    3701   R369    3415    3647    92R0    9745   10219   10635   11755   12323   12903   13512   14152    14312   111254
IN(CRIIENTAL REVENIUE(Rp000                 0        0      333      330    2746    2549    2379    3170    3973    4620    4954    5961    10149   11932   13900   16439   19213   22243   159552
INC:REMENTAL EVENUE(US$)                   0        0      426      424    1324    1222    1382    1523    1915    2227    2387    2873    4391    5774    6699    7946    9261    10722    76393












,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                  BR D18822FI
-QTHAILAND 12  l ~1*  21o
' vf-i -' ,/ 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMALLHOLDER CATTLE
\   :  -   Ch/r 2                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s ~~PHILIPPINES                  _-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
. < | , ~~~~MALAYSIA                                                         BRNE                                                                                                      -.& P\    A  l.l;_-L_  G
- _ j X ~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA                                                                                                                           a .  .  ^- 6-- 1 s
c  _it;l   4XI~NGAPORE               .t" \                                                                   o      /o/~__pols  B."o
_  _   s                  -*tK_e-f          O  >  /)       ~~~~~~~~~~~~23  a_j     >8 9__                O     cNA___AHEoA
.  _   i                '              KA Z7/HA#FA ,V                     _                           v   ,    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
PRVICE                                                                             2. .X5t   ~                                                       .nQt
2.IR           PAMJ                                                                                                                                                                  IRIAN_ JAYA   gH>+  --<S-< <- 
5. nl^>                                         NG.   o    eo                                                                                                                                     ,            |2
lO-. IAIIT                                   (/t-,J                                                                                               2o;S2De
2DJ.OC Tl-                            P.^JXI-T.irtW                                                                                                                                        
120 T1 s - T A              h.              A                     _ _ r   " KAR,|C &.f
771_0   T-U                                                                                                                 je M  1TV   27D=                                  teo71   10   p5
2~~~~~~~~ 16 .                                                                                                                                                       KIS__ S i_   
102*                b'                           1|s7                         '                                                                                                         JULY 1,7    i
-~~~~~~~~~~~~UY18



