Docuomnt of
The World Bank
IFO OMCAuL USE OrNLY
Repot No. P-4155-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$32 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 18, 1985
Tbb doemamt~~~~ bw arsitddsftlu   dm   eue by rpim  only in the pe f # d Io
tdrk officaldM    lSb cotewbs qo  "i oterwise be d sosed widwat W dd Eb k au^dbrifi  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Indonesian Rupiab (Rp)
US$1.00       =   Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million      US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)     =   2.47 acres
1 kiLogram (kg)        2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCDIU         -  Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit
BI            -  Bank Indonesia (Central Bank)
BPKP          -  Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan (Financial and
Development Supervisory Board)
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGLS          -  Directorate General of Livestock Services, Ministry of
Agriculture
ERR           -  Economic Rate of Return
COI           -  Government of Indonesia
IFAD          -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
KUD           - Koperasi Unit Desa (village cooperative)
M&E           - Monitoring and Evaluation
PHO           -  Project Management Office (Jakarta)
PMU           -  Project Management Unit (Provinces)
REPELITA      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94; Repelita VI, 1994-99)
SATGAS        -  Satuan Petugas Lapangan (Field task force comprising
animal health, extension and husbandry workers)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SNALLIOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Loan Amount:    US$32 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project
Description:    The main objective of the project wouLd be to supply cattle to
smallholder farmers, for use as draft animals, to provide
manure for sustaining crop production, and to raise farm
incomes. The project, which would foLlow up on a smallholder
cattLe project supported by a loan from the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD), would finance (a) pro-
curement of about 76,500 selected breeding heifers and about
7,600 bulls in South Sulavesi, Nusa Tenggara and East Java
(Madura) and their transportation by private cattle traders to
Sumatra and other Sulawesi provinces; (b) distribution of
these cattle to about 76,500 smallholder farmers-in Sumatra
and Sulawesi, including transmigrants, local participants in
transmigration schemes, and farmers near transmigrant
coimnnities; (c) distribution of first and second generation
heifers (offspring of the project cattle and cattle supplied
under the IFAD smallholder cattle project) to about 55,000
farmers; (d) cattle handling facilities, veterinary services,
extension services, forage production and disease investiga-
tions; and (e) technical assistance and training for project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and disease
eradication. Distribution of offspring would continue beyond
the five-year project period, reaching in total some 237,000
small farmers.  These farmers usually have difficuLty in grow-
ing arable crops on more than about 1.25 ha of land because of
insufficient labor and resources. By providing cattle, land
preparation would be speeded up, soil fertility and crop
yields would be raised, and farm labor would be freed-up to
clear reserve land, mostly for perennial cash crops. In this
way, cattle would play an important role in raising trans-
migrant family incomes above the subsistence level.
Project Risks:  The main project risks are that (a) demand for cattle may be
less than expected; (b) disease outbreaks may reduce the
number of cattle available; and (c) shipping losses might be
excessive. To minimize these risks, (a) the project has been
kept deliberately modest in scale compared with the transmi-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank ?uthorization.



gration program and the expected demand by local smallholders;
(b) an intensive disease investigation program would be
included in the project; and (c) strict measures would be
taken to improve cattle shipping standards and reduce
mortality.
Estimated Costs:/a                                 Local      Foreign    Total
(Us$ million) -
Cattle                              25.2          4.5        29.7
Forage development                    1.5         0.8         2.3
Cattle facilities & services         2.8          2.3         5.1
Technical assistance & training      2.5          1.7         4.2
Administration                       4.3          1.6         5.9
Base Cost                       36.3         10.9       47.2
Physical contengencies               2.9          1.1         4.0.
Price contingencies                 12.5          2.7        15.2
Total Project Costs             51.7         14.7       66.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                22.3          9.7       32.0
IFAD                                 8.3          3.7       12.0
Government                          21.1          1.3       22.4
Total Financing                 51.7         14.7      66.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY              1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
(US$ million)
Annual              0.8   5.5    5.7    6.4    6.4    7.2
Cumulative          0.8   6.3   12.0   18.4   24.8   32.0
Rate of Return:       25X based on 92Z of project costs during project period.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5615-IND dated September 18, 1985.
Map: IBRD Go. 18822R.
la   Project costs include US$2.2 million in taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE rNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$32 million to help.
finance the Smallholder Cattle Development Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects' (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, andta country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic :ndicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineraL deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural comnodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and Kali-
mantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas with
some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a quarter
of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban popula-
tion growth is about 4Z p.a. The 1983 estimate of GNP per capita is US$560,
which places Indonesia among middle income countries.3
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Science and
Technology Training Project (No. P-4111-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-195, dated June 13, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on
July 2, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8Z p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 601 of Central Government receipts by 1980181 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand.  The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4X p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and



3
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, inc'.uding simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984.  The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4%
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983
and 9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Mediumr-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors vight be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while-still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisallselection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be caLled upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.



9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production - have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the



- 5 -
Other Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agriculturaL diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will aLso need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.



- 6 -
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district Level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness.  This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18X of the rural and 40X of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75Z,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(HLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additiGnal US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 502 and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite p udently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or belnw
20X.  However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over Ene past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA crediLs total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the share of debt service, 10.3% compared with 13.3X and 7.9%,
respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was
made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following
the commodity and oil price boom in 1973174, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigra-
tion) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-
assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (L969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to v reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate
poverty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Science and
Technology Training Project (No. P-4111-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-195, dated June 13, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on
July 2, 1985.



- 8 -
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs. The approach is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on
economic policy that has been a cornerstone of -the Bank's relationship with
the Government for many years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic
issues with advice on institutional and policy reform in important sectors and
subsectors, coupled with lending operations and technical assistance that meet
priority needs and support institutional improvements in specific areas.
Emphasis in economic work is being given to trade and industrial issues,
development of the financial system, and public resource management.  In the
lending program, agriculture continues to receive the most attention.
However, the program is broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on
industrial development and education. Less emphasis is being given to power
and energy, where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In
transportation the Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the
maritime sector and on improving the national network of highways and rural
roads. In urban development, water supply and population, lending is being
directed more and more to developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing
for cost recovery and strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize
demands on the Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for
addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to
contribute about 20Z of Indonesia's external capital requirements during the
next three years and is expected to be an important catalyst in attracting
other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank
lending through technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and
coordinated policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our
lending programs for power, urban development, water supply and
transportation.
20.       There has been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio4Y from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17% in FY85.  The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures. The severe shortage of managerial
and technical manpower or course compounds the problem. A number of steps
have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint
review procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work
out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
41 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some
of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implemen-
tation. The Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting indus-
try have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems
in Indonesia. In order to reduce initial project implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improvements are
taking place. In addition, in order to ease the Government's resource con-
straints and maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas,
steps were taken under the Special Assistance Program to accelerate disburse-
ments in 17 ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one
project each in the energy and transport seccors. The combined effects of all
of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 million in FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. rt is nevertheless
important that the Bank and the Government maintain their efforts.
PART III- THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
The Sector
21.       The agricultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to most Indonesians. Some 80X of the country's population lives in rural
areas, and agriculture is the primary source of income for 60Z of these house-
holds, as well as for 10% of urban households. The sector contributes some
18X of total GDP, of which food crop production accounts for 60%. About
16 million smallholder families cultivate subsistence and cash crops on
14 million ha, while about 1,800 estates produce rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil,
and tobacco on 2.2 million ha.
22.       The Government's main objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment and raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supplies to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports particularly of tree crops; and
(d) ensure productive and sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water, and
other natural resources.
23.       A major component of the Government's agricultural and rural deve-
lopment strategy has been its transmigration program. About two thirds of
Indonesia's total population reside in Java, an island with about 7% of the
nation's land. Seventy percent of Java's total area is cultivated, and popu-
lation densities in some areas rise to 2,000 people/sq km. Meanwhile, vast
areas lie uncultivated in the Other Islands, and low population densities
impede regional development and economic growth. The Government therefore
launched its transmigration program to: (a) create employment opportunities
for, and improve the incomes of, impoverished and landless laborers on Java,



- 10 -
Bali and Lombok; (b) alleviate population pressures on these islands, espe-
cially pressures in environmentally vulnerable areas; (c) promote balanced
regional development; and (d) increase food and tree crop production.
24.       During the Government's Five-Year Development Plans for 1969-74
(Repelita I) and for 1974-79 (Repelita II), 46,000 and 83,000 families were
transmigrated, respectively. In Repelita III (1979-84), GOI increased its
transmigration program to about 500,000 families. Achievements seem to have
been remarkable. About 535,000 families were resettled, including 169,000
families who migrated spontaneously without official support, and 366,000
families who participated in official settlements. About 90X of the official
transmigrants (or some 329,000 families) migrated from Java, Bali and Nusa
Tenggara, while the remainder were local residents or spontaneous migrants
given land on official sites. For Repelita IV (1984-89), GOI has established
a target of about 750,000 families, of which about 450,000 will be official
transmigrants, and 300,000 spontaneous migrants.
Cattle Development
25.       There are some 8.3 million cattle (and 2.5 million buffalo) in
Indonesia, almost all of which are kept by smallholders primarily as a source
of draft power and manure, and secondly as a capital reserve and source of
cash income. About 70Z of all land cultivated for food crops is prepared by
cattle or buffalo power; the other 30Z is prepared by hand labor. Mechaniza-
tion is discouraged on employment grounds, and is still negligible. The herd
offtake, at about 12% nationally (14% on Java) supplies an accelerating demand
for meat, especially on Java where cattle slaughter has increased by about 32
p.a. over the last 10 years. Java, Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara account for 6.7
million head, or 80% of the national herd. In the main transmigration areas
of Sumatra and Kalimantan, there are at present few cattle.
26.       Experience with Past Lending.  In early 1973, the Bank assisted a
Beef Cattle Development Project (Cr. 355-IND) to establish a state-owned
ranching corporation. The project was to establish seven ranches (about
70,000 ha) on Sulawesi and Sumba, and included a credit program for about 40
small private ranches. The major market was to be the slaughter trade for
live cattle in Hong Kong. Faced with managerial, financial and technical
problems, including a shortage of land for ranching, difficulties in adapting
Australian technology packages, and low productivity of imported catLle, the
project was reduced in 1975 to the development of three ranches and was
completed in 1981. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3994) on the
project confirmed the disappointing performance of the ranching operation,
though valuable lessons were learned about pastures and the performance of
local cattle breeds.
27.       In 1977, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program drew attention to the
traditional use of cattle as draft power for smallholder cultivation in Java
and Bali, the place of origin of most transmigrants. It also pointed out the
benefits to be obtained by removing breeding heifers from increasingly
overstocked lands in the dry Eastern Islands and placing them in Sumatra and
Kalimantan, where there are few cattle and where transmigration settlement is
expected to continue. Largely as an outcome of this sector work, financial



- 11 -
assistance was obtained from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) in 1980 for a Smallholder Cattle Development Project in
Sumatra, which was appraised and supervised by the Bank on IFAD's behalf. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has also provided two loans for smallholder
cattle development in Kalimantan.
28.       The Smallholder Cattle Development Project (IFAD Ln. 35-ID).  Under
the IFAD project, about 44,000 head of cattle are being procured from East
Java, South Sulawesi and the Nusa Tenggara Provinces, and distributed to
smallholder farmers, mostly transmigrants, in Sumatra.  The transmigrants
receive a cleared 0.25 ha plot of land for their houseplot and garden, a
cleared 1.0 ha field area for growing food crops, and 0.75 ha of uncleared
reserve land, which is usually more distant. Without draft power, settlers
are normally able to cultivate only the first two plots, but with draft
animals to speed up land preparation, their labor is freed-up to clear the
reserve land for production of cash crops such as rubber, coconuts or coffee.
29.       Special features of the IFAD project include:
(a) private cattle traders are contracted for initial selection of
animals, quarantine, shipping and distribution to selected
smallholders;
(b) effective livestock extension services are established at village
level where small teams of project staff (SATGAS) provide technical
advice, veterinary services, and farmer training;
(c) farmers will repay debts for the heifers by returning to GOI two 18-
month old calves. The female calves are redistributed to other
small farmers, and males are sold for fattening;
(d) a computerized cattle inventory system was set up to monitor the
ownership and location of each animal, together with credit records;
and
Ce) intensive investigations into Jembrana disease, a potentially
serious health-risk of the Bali cattle breed used in the project,
were initiated in a specialist Bali Cattle Disease Investigation
Unit (BCDIU).
30.       As of May 1985, approximately 25,000 head of cattle had been pro-
cured and distributed successfully. Total cattle distribution should reach
about 44,000 head by late 1986, slightly less than appraisal targets since
cattle costs were initially higher than expected. Cattle losses have been
low, and the quality and condition of cattle are of a high standard. The
major areas of procurement were South Sulawesi and East Nusa Tenggara. CattLe
procured are the Bali breed, well adapted to smallholder farming systems. The
impact of cattle seems largest in relatively new transmigration comunnities
with at least 2 ha of food crop land per family. Farmers have been eager to
receive the cattle and tend the animals with a very high standard of cattle
husbandry. The IFAD project monitoring system reports that project cattle



- 12 -
have produced about 6,100 offspring by May 1985. Of these, about 1,000
heifers have already been returned to the project as in-kind credit
repayments, and have been redistributed to other settlers in the same
communities.
31.       Forage seed production programs were also started in East and West
Nusa Tenggara.  Progress has been satisfactory,-with about 700 farmers produc-
ing seed for the IFAD project. In the distribution areas, forage nurseries
have been established in each village which receives cattle, from which
farmers take planting material.  Progress of investigatory work at the BCDIU
on the causative organism of Jembrana disease has been encouraging, although
the organism has yet to be positively identified.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was prepared by Government staff assisted by
IFAD-financed consuLtants and appraised by the 3ank in January 1985. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. in August 1985, with the Indonesian dele-
gation led by Mr. Daman Danuwidjaja. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5615-
IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III.
Objectives and Rationale
33.       The project would provide smallholder farmers, mostly transmigrants,
with cattle for use as draft animals, to provide manure, and to raise farm
incomes.  The project is highly supportive of GOI's transmigration program.
The Bank is particularly concerned that transmigrants, once settled, have the
support to enable them to raise incomes above a subsistence level. Without
draft power, transmigrant families normally cannot cultivate all the land made
available to them, even after several years. In addition to providing draft
power, cattle play a key role in providing manure which is keenly sought to
improve soil fertility, especially in the highly productive houselot gardens
that play an important role in food output, nutrition, and incomes.
34.       Bank and IFAD support would permit GOT to expand the cattle project
more closely in line with the needs of the transmigration program. The level
of resources available to IFAD, which identified and supported preparation of
the proposed project, does not now permit it to provide all the external
financial assistance needed for a project of the size proposed. Bank support
is particularly important to continue providing the technical expertise of
Bank staff and ensure that the project's institution building activities
(including disease investigations, cattle health and extension services, and
the move toward better credit systems) receive proper attention in the cattle
program.



- 13 -
Project Description
35.       The project would provide cattle and their female offspring to about
131,000 small farmers, mostly transmigrants, during a five-year implementation
program, and later through further distribution of offspring to another
106,000 small farmers, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to about
237,000. The cattle would be supplied to farm communities in six provinces in
Sumatra (Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu, Lampung and West Sumatra) and
three Sulawesi provinces (South, Central, and Southeast Sulawesi). These
areas have been selected because of their importance in the Repelita III and
IV transmigration program and the large numbers of smallholder farmers there
who need draft power for cultivation. The cattle would be Bali or Madura
breed cattle drawn from South Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara and East Java (Madura)
Provinces. Analyses of provincial cattle populations, mortality and offtake
rates indicate that these provinces can easily supply cattle for the proposed
project and other GOI programs without reducing herds.
36.       The main components of the project would be:
(a) procurement of about 76,500 selected breeding heifers and about
7,600 bulls and their transportation by private cattle traders to
participating provinces in Sumatra and Sulawesi;
(b) distribution of one heifer each to about 76,500 smallholder farmers,
including transmigrants, local participants in transmigration
schemes, and local farmers near transmigrant communities, and
distribution of a bull to one in every ten of such farmers;
Cc) redistribution to about 55,000 smallholder farmers of about 55,000
heifer and 5,500 bull calves returned to the project from the first
and second generation offspring of cattle supplied under the
project, and from cattle distributed under the IFAD project;5/
id) construction of six cattle holding and quarantine facilities and
upgrading of another four facilities, and provision of about 105
vehicles, about 340 motorcycles and miscellaneous veterinary,
laboratory and office equipment;
(e) a forage seed production program by about 700 smallholder farmers in
Nusa Tenggara, and a forage production program to serve about
237,000 farmers in Sumatra and Sulawesi receiving cattle and their
redistributed offspring;
(f) improvement of veterinary services, and provision of about 150 teams
(SATGAS) which provide cattle, forage and animal health extension
services;
5/   After the five-year impLementation period, another 106,000 heifer calves
and about 11,000 bulls would be distributed.



- 14 -
(g)  investigation of the causative agent, transmission and control of
Jembrana disease of BaLi cattle, through the Bali Cattle Disease
Investigation Unit (BCDIU);
(h)  technical assistance for project implementation, forage production,
disease investigation and control, monitoring and evaluation and
cooperative development; and
(i)  training in management skills, extension techniques, forage and
cropping systems, cattle marketing, cattle fattening, cooperative
management, and disease eradication and vaccine production.
37.       Project Participants.  During Repelita III, some 200,000 families
were settled in the project provinces. Another 99,000 familes migrated spon-
taneously, settled on the peripheries of official transmigration sites and
were often given land by local coimmnities.  Under Repelita IV, GOI expects to
settle another 415,000 families in these provinces, including 200,000 spon-
taneous migrant families. While the IFAD project would reach many of the
transmigrants under Repelita III, some 130,000 of those families will still
have no draft power. The proposed cattle project would provide cattle for
these settlers, as well as for about 91,000 Repelita IV transmigrants. The
size of the project is therefore modest in relation to GOI's transmigration
plans. Individual participants would be selected by project and Government
staff in consultation with local community leaders. Each participant selected
would have at least 1 ha and not more than 5 ha of land, and would show evi-
dence that land development has been limited by lack of draft power. The
Government would distribute cattle under the project to communities and
farmers that had been selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank.
Credit System
38.       GOI's objective is to establish a credit arrangement for providing
cattle to farmers that is both practical in the short run (considering the
absence of any credit system involving smallholders in the project communities
at present) and supportive of the longer-term goal of moving toward monetary
cattle credit operations when farmers and cooperative organizations become
creditworthy. To this end, credit operations would start with a simple in-
kind system to be replaced with village level cooperatives handling credit
transactions, with funds borrowed from Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), when and
where such cooperatives are able to take on those tasks. In order to develop
the cooperatives' (KUDs) financial and managerial capabilities, the project
has a training and technical assistance componen: directed at cooperative
development for KUDs in project areas.
39.       Smailholders who receive the heifers procured by the project from
the Eastern Islands would sign agreements with BRI and the Directorate General
for Livestock Services (DGLS) that obligate them to repay a debt equal to the
contract cost of the heifer by returning two calves in good condition within
six years to DGLS. The debt service value of each calf would equal 50Z of the
debt, so no cash transactions are involved in debt service. Smallholders who
receive a bull and a heifer would repay their debt by returning three calves
to DGLS within seven years under the same arrangements.



- 15 -
40.       The calves returned by these smallholders would be separated into
(a) culled females and males not required for redistribution as bulls (both to
be sold by DGLS to traders) and (b) the calves selected for redistribution.
By the time such calves are ready for redistribution, it is hoped that KUDs in
the project areas will have the capacity to handle cattle credit. KUDs would
be evaluated by BRI for creditworthiness and, if qualified, would borrow from
BRI to purchase DGLS cattle. The KUD would be responsible for internal credit
recovery from its members, and for redistribution of successive offspring
thereafter.  Should KUDs be unable to borrow, the simple in-kind system
followed for the initial cattle supplied from the Eastern Islands would
continue and, during negotiations, an assurance was received that DGLS would
maintain the project organization at least until the redistribution of first
generation offspring has been completed.
41.       KUDs should play the predominant role in the redistribution of
second generation offspring and credit recovery. In other localities BRI may
have branch offices or villages capable of lending directly to farmers on
commercial terms for purchase of DGi.S cattle.  If neither KUDs nor BRI are
able to provide credit, the simple in-kind credit system initially used may
again be employed. DGLS intervention at this stage would be provided through
its regular extension and veterinary services which would succeed the project
organization.
42.       These credit arrangements would be reviewed annually.  During
negotiations assurances were obtained that an interministerial committee made
up of members from the Ministry of Finance, BRI, Bank Indonesia (BI) and DGLS
would annually review the most appropriate methods for providing credit and
cooperative services to smallholders and would furnish the results of this
study to the Bank for comments by the end of each year, commencing December
31, 1987. GOI would make necessary adjustments to credit and cooperative
services arrangements taking into account the Bank's comments on such studies.
43.       Except for the case where a BRI branch office in a project area may
offer fully commercial credit to farmers for purchase of cattle from DGLS
after the initial distribution, BRI's role in the project would be one of a
channeling bank -- it would use none of its own funds, and would bear no risks
- for handling GOI funds and credit administration. BRI would maintain the
project's prefinancing account, from which cattle suppliers are paid. Cash
income from the sale of culled heifers and male calves returned to the project
would be transmitted by DGLS through BRI to BI. A financing agreement between
GOI (represented by BI) and BRI, and a subfinancing agreement between BRI and
DGLS (representing the project) would be agreed with the Bank. The financing
agreement would include the level of handling charges to be paid to BRI for
credit administration, and the subfinancing agreement the alternative credit
administration arrangements. Signing of the financing and subfinancing
agreements would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Organization and Management
44.       The project would be coordinated by an Interdepartmental Steering
Committee which supervises all foreign-assisted projects in the livestock
sector. This Committee is chaired by the Director General of DGLS and has two



- 16 -
major functions: (a) to set policy guidelines and (b) to review project
progress. At the provincial level, a similar Interdepartmental Committee
coordinates project implementation activities under the leadership of the
Governor. In addition, technical aspects of project works are overseen by a
Technical Steering Committee consisting of the DGLS Secretary and six DGLS
Directors.
45.       Day-to-day project management would be handled by:  (a) a central
Project Management Office (PHO) headed by the Project Director in Jakarta,
(b) Project Management Units (PMUs) at the provincial level and (c) field task
forces (SATGAS) at the provincial and district field levels. The PMO has been
established as a discrete unit within DGLS, with the Project Director report-
ing directly to the Director General. PMO staff would be increased in April
1986 from 50 to 68, half of whom would be professional staff; all staff would
be permanent civil servants on secondment to the project. The PMN would be
divided into four divisions: Administration and Finance, Technical and
Credit, Procurement and Distribution, and Planning.
46.       A PMU has been set up in each of the cattle procurement and cattle
distribution provinces included in the IFAD project. PMUs are staffed by pro-
vincial livestock service staff assigned to work on the project under the
technical and operational guidance of the Project Director. The role of the
PMU is to implement all project activities including supervising the procure-
ment and distribution of all cattle contracted by the PMO; development of
forage; and administration of the SATGAS. Each PMU, located in the provincial
capital, is subdivided into four sections: Administration and Finance, Cattle
Procurement, Cattle Distribution and Development, and Forage Development.
47.       SATCAS teams would be assigned at the field level in all areas where
the project distributes cattle and promotes forage development. In addition
to organizing project and credit activities, the SATGAS would provide exten-
sion and animal health services to project beneficiaries. Operationally, the
SATGAS would report to the P1MU chief. On a local level they would coordinate
closely through Rural Extension Centers (RECs) with administrative and
technical officials of the agricultural extension services. In addition to
implementing the project and providing extension to the farmers, the SATGAS
would act as an effective reporting channel back to project management. Four
SATGAS teams would be supervised on animal health matters by one veterinarian
stationed at each REC. At a ratio of 1 SATGAS team to 500 farmers, the
project would require a total of about 150 SATGAS teams. The two SATGAS sta.f
responsible for extension and animal health would become part of the regular
DGLS provincial services after the project is implemented. The third member
of each SATCAS team who handles beneficiary selection, credit matters and
cattle monitoring, would receive training in cooperative management, credit
administration, and accounting to head the local KUD, wherever such KUDs are
established.
48.       As there have been some delays in procuring vehicles under the IFAD
project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would furnish to the project about 105 four wheel vehicles and 341 motorcycles
under a schedule of annual procurement agreed with the Bank.



- 17 -
49.       To minimize cattle losses during shipment, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that traders would be required to ensure cattle are accom-
panied by qualified and experienced animal health workers and that shipment is
in accordance with minimum specifications regarding space, feed, water, venti-
lation and loading/unloading conditions, satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       Total project costs are estimated at US$66.4 million (including
taxes of US$2.2 million) of which US$14.7 million (or 22Z) would be foreign
exchange. Project costs are estimated in July 1985 prices. Unit rates for
cattle, civil works, goods and services are based on recent actual expendi-
tures in the IFAD project. A 10% allowance for physical contingencies has
been included for all capital-expenditures. Physical contingencies total
US$4.0 million or 8% of base costs. Price contingencies (US$15.2 million)
total about 30Z of base costs plus physical contingencies and were estimated
on the basis of the following inflation rates: for local costs: 8% during
1985-90; for foreign costs: 5% in 1985, 7.5Z in 1986 and 8% from 1987 to
1990.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$32 million would finance about 51% of
total project costs excluding US$2.2 million of taxes and US$1.4 million
reserved procurement of vehicles. IFAD would provide cofinancing of SDR 11.6
million, equivalent to US$12 million. The available balance under the IFAD
project (Loan 35-ID) would permit the purchase of about 9,000 cattle in mid-
1985 to complete the IFAD project, but the project organization has the
capacity to handle more if funds are made available. To maintain momentum, up
to 3,500 cattle procuied in mid-1985 would be financed retroactively from the
proposed Bank and IFAD loans.
Procurement
52.       Bali and Madura breed Cattle (US$43.1 million) available only in
Indonesia, would be procured through about 75 contracts, each for about 1,000
heifers and 100 bulls. Qualified Indonesian cattle traders would be selected
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Civil Works (US$1.5 million) are small and widely separated geographically,
and hence are unattractive to foreign bidders, though works would be grouped
as far as possible into annual contracts by province. About 60 smalL con-
tracts would be procured through LCB. Veterinary and Laboratory Equipment,
and Weighbridges (US$1.5 million), Office Furniture and Equipment, and Farm
Tools and Plows (US$2.6 million) would be procured in several small lots over
a five-year period following LCB procedures. Laboratory Animals, Fertilizers
and Pesticides, and Forage Seeds (US$1.0 million) would be purchased locally
through procedures acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles and Motorcycles are
locally assembled, and GOI prohibits their importation. All vehicles and
motorcycles for GOI use (US$1.4 million) would be procured centrally through
annually negotiated contracts, and will be treated as reserved procurement.
Both foreign and local consultants (US$4.2 million) would be contracted for
the project. Local consultants will be procured from local firms. Specialist
advisors for the PMO and BCDIU would be contracted individually from foreign
sources. GDI wishes to continue the services of the two current resident



- 18 -
advisors, together with the visiting Monitoring and Evaluation specialist
employed under the IFAD project. Qualified individuals would also be
contracted for visiting services in forage and vaccine production. The Bank
has no objection to these arrangements. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that aLl consultant services would be procured on a schedule agreed
with the Bank, and engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines and agreed terms
of reference.
53.       Project procurement arrangements are summarized below:
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY /a
(US$ million)
Not
Applic-
Category                                   LCB       Other      able     Total
CattLe                                     43.1        -          -      43.1
(27.0)       -         -      (27.0)
Civil works                                 1.5        -          -       1.5
(0.7)       -         -       (0.7)
Consultants                                           4.2         -       4.2
-       (3.6)       -       (3.6)
Training                                              1.1         -       1.1
(-)                (-)
Vehicles and motorcycles                              1.4         -       1.4
_     ~(-)        -(-)
Veterinary and laboratory                   1.5        -          -       1.5
equipment and weighbridges               (0.7)                         (0.7)
Office furniture and equipment,             2.6        -          -       2.6
farm tools and plows                      (-)        -          -       (-)
Laboratory animals, fertilizers,             -        1.0         -       1.0
pesticides and forage seeds                -        (-)         -       (-)
Administration                                          -        9.8      9.8
_             ~~~(-)    (-)
Technical assistance for                     -        0.2         -       0.2
project preparation                        -        (-)                 (
Total                                    48.7       7.9        9.8     66.4
(28.4)     (3.6)      ?:Y    (32.0)
/a   Costs are total costs including physical contingencies and expected price
increases. Figures in parentheses are Bank loan amounts..



- 19 -
Disbursements
54.       Bank and IFAD loan funds would be disbursed as follows:
Disbursement share
Category                           Disbursement rate         Bank        IFAD
(X)           (     Z      ) 
Cattle                             85X of total costs          65          20
Civil works                        60% of total costs          60           -
Veterinary and laboratory
equipment and weighbridges       60Z of total costs          60           -
Office furniture and equipment,
farm tools and plows             50Z of total costs           -          50
Vehicles and motorcycles           80% of total costs           -          80
consultants                        10OZ of total costs        100           -
Training                          -IGO% of total costs          -         100
55.       Disbursements would be made against contracts, except for training
costs (US$1.1 million) which would be disbursed against statements of expendi-
ture (SOEs). Disbursements are expected to be faster than the historical
profile for Indonesian agricultural and rural development projects, and to
follow closely the profile achieved by the IFAD project, since the project
would be a -second phase and the project management and its operations are
already well developed. Loan Closing would be by March 31, 1992.
Accounts and Audits
56.       Detailed separate accounts would be kept by DGLS and the PMO for
each budget item by year. Project accounts would be subject to two audits:
one by the Inspector General of the Ministry of Agriculture and independently
by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both
auditors has been generally satisfactory on past Eank-assisted projects and
the IFAD project. During negotiations assurances were obtained that adequate
and separate accounts would be maintained; all contracts, orders and receipts
would be kept for at least one year after the closing of the loan; and
independent audits of each year's accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within nine months of the close of each GOI fiscal year. In addition, a
separate audit opinion of all SOEs submitted for withdrawal of loan proceeds
would be provided by an independent auditor. -



- 20 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       Work begun on monitoring and evaluation (M&E) during the IFAD
project would be continued under this project. By the time of completion of
the IFAD project, reporting forms would have been fully field tested and ready
for use, and the design of the M&E systems would have been completed. Under
the proposed project, funds would be made available to: (a) expand the M&E
unit within the PMO and assign staff to the PHUs; (b) provide these staff with
specialized training; and (c) provide technical assistance. GOI would cause
DCLS to (a) continuously monitor and evaluate project implementation and the
socio-economic impact of cattle on smallholder beneficiaries; and (b) prepare
a Project Completion Report and submit it to the Bank not later than six
months after project completion.
Cost Recovery
58.       Project costs would be recovered by GOI from the sale of culled male
and female offspring returned to the project (returned cattLe are to be either
culled and sold to traders for cash or selected for redistribution to
farmers), and from cattle sales to KUDs. Offspring repaid to DGLS of the
second generation heifers and bulls would all be sold for cash, and at this
time project intervention would end. The cost recovery index (the ratio of
the present value of incremental direct public sector cash revenues to the
present value of incremental financial costs in constant terms) was calculated
in two ways with a low and a high estimate of the future market value of
cattle in the project areas. The index is estimated at 26% for low market
price projections for offspring and 32% for high market price projections for
offspring. This is acceptable given the low incomes of project beneficiaries,
and the fact that the index only covers cash benefits recaptured by GOI, and
does not include the value of increased crop production and cattle off-takes
that would accrue to smallholders.
Environmental Impact
59.       Moving breeding cattle from South Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara would
help slow herd growth there, and relieve grazing pressure and ecological
damage. The cattle would be shifted mostly from uncontrolled herds grazing on
natural pastures, where their grazing patterns lead to significant soiL
erosion and fertility decline. After distribution, they would be tethered in
individual stalls, and fed on a daily cut-and-carry system. In addition,
their manure would be collected and used for crop planting, hence raising soil
fertility significantly, particularly on the houselot gardens and arable crop
fieLds. The planting of forage on paths, boundaries and contours would also
have a positive environmental impact by helping control soil erosion. It is
unlikely that farm families would milk the cattle since Bali cattle produce
little milk in excess of what is required by the calves. Nutritional improve-
ments would be derived however from the increased production of food crops,
especially protein-rich legume crops, and from the higher cash incomes gene-
rated from the project.



- 21 -
Project Benefits
60.       The project would support GOI's overall development objectives by
increasing foodcrop production and raising the incomes of the rural poor. At
least 9oZ of the cattle recipients would be transmigrants, drawn from among
the poorest of the rural poor on the inner islands who often work only as sea-
sonal agricultural laborers prior to joining the transmigration program. The
addition of cattle to their transmigrant farming systems would provide them
with both draft power and a source of organic fertilizer which would help them
to increase food crop production and move beyond a subsistence existence. The
other recipients would be smallholder farmers, frequently spontaneous
migrants, who have settled on the peripheries of official transmigration
sites. In total about 237,000 families would receive cattle distributed or
redistributed as a result of the project. Additional direct project
beneficiaries would include smallholder farmers in cattle procurement areas
who sold cattle to the project, and some 700 contract forage seed producers.
The project would also have a marked impact on the provincial economies in
procurement areas by providing greater market outlets for cattle and creating
incomes from seed production.
61.       The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 25x.
The ERR was found to be relatively insensitive to changes in project para-
meters. For example, if crop benefits were reduced by 50%, the ERR would fall.
to about 21%, and if there were no incremental crop benefits and project bene-
fits were derived entirely from incremental cattle productivity the ERR would
be about 15X.  Should project costs be 50% higher than expected, the ERR would
fall to 21%, while if the project scope were reduced by half, the ERR would
still be about 23Z.
Project Risks
62.       There is some risk that increasing the size of the cattle distribu-
tion program will strain the administrative capacity of the existing project
management. The project organization has already shown its ability to procure
and distribute steadily increasing numbers of breeding stock. The quantity of
cattle to be handled in the first two years of the proposed project does not
exceed numbers reached in the IFAD project, and project management capacity
will be further strengthened under this project.
63.       The project assumes a substantial demand for cattle in cransmigra-
tion areas. The project is designed to provide cattle to existing settlers,
and to less than half of the new transmigrants expected by GOI during
Repelita IV. Should demand be less, more cattle may be distributed to local
smaliholder farmers. There is also a risk of disease losses in the cattle
distribution areas, but the project minimizes this risk by using the SATGAS
teams as front-line animal health workers, and by increasing the numbers of
veterinarians to support the SATGAS and improve their facilities. Should
disease outbreaks occur in procurement provinces, less cattle may be available
to the project. Jembrana disease, for which there is as yet no firm identifi-
cation, treatment, or control, is still endemic on Bali, but there have been
no confirmed outbreaks elsewhere. Cattle will not be procured from Bali, but
from Sulawesi, Madura and Nusa Tenggara. Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara have not



- 22 -
suffered Jembrana outbreaks (there is evidence that Bali-origin cattle there
have acquired resistance to it), and have been free of foot-and-mouth disease
for many years. OI has taken strict precautions to prevent foot-and-mouth
disease entering the cattle procurement areas, and no movement of live cattle
to these islands is permitted. Encouraging progress is being made in address-
ing the Jembrana problem; investigations would be intensified under the
project, and it is hoped that control measures would be determined. Finally,
cattle losses may occur during shipping, but specified shipping procedures
would be followed to keep the cattle in good condition. It is also possible
that cattle will not be returned to GO for credit repayment, but this does
not seem likely based on the experience of the IFAD project.
PART V - RECOMNENDATIOU
64.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 18, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                                       AEn I
Page 1 of 6 pages
zsoLk    1uC   u:m I             AaM GaWACOu            LUS. MC
A CO-go. no
Tau                              1319.      161        1914 
AMCKXMM          a.3                         307.1      313.5
w    m CA   c                         ..         .. t60.0                   1011.1                  1875-.
Z o   s meam
(cLoUa  Or OIL EquivMami)         "8.        35.0       131.0            340.8                    99A
-  IWULCZ.VID-TuuI (hmUINDu)  t950.0   116201.0   130.9.0
333611309UnM1 CSZ TO 2A*          16.5        17.1       26.1              35.9                    67.7
O ain  SI A 2W    0 ILL)                              212 .
iOnammi mmtlow cmu                                    366.0
POUULATiOU  ilualui                                     1.3
IOPULAIIO 23331T2
FE sq. IN.                      49.3        60.5       U1.1             26.9                      ".0
in IQ. DL. SE. LAN              316.3      275.6      663.4            1 4I.Z                     91.1
POUMATIOU AI ISTRCIRK CZ)
0-14in                          40.7 5J.               0.5A             36.2                    32.5
15-6 US                         35.2        5.4       535.               377                      57.1
65 ASM    Z                      3.0         2.5        33                3.5                     6.2
OiULAtU  GCOE NATES CZ)
StOAL                             2.1        2.0        2.2               23                       2.4
URBAN                            3.7         3A        4*                 4.1                      3.6
-XgEi   3*21 am  CPUW)            ".2        41.0        34.0              30.1                    30.9
CROW 3W11 RATE CPU t OIS)         22.9        17A        124                9.4                     6.0
GEM  EFICTOU   RAZZ                2.7         2.7        2.                1.9                     2.0
VFALT iLANISM
A,flU3  SEPAL (CTI03)             ..       Ial.1     3051.0 c
uses CZ or uAf  VmNw)                                  55.0              35..                     45.3
INDE or mw    rw. mn ciE                                                                         -
(1969-71-100)                     93.0       102.0      123.0             124.4                   103.A
in cir urn  o r
CALORiES (I or                  79.0        920       112.0             115.7                    113.2
P30323  (GuM  Pn DA)            34.0        41.0       33.0              50.3                      3.4
OF  XCII ANDL AD MOLK            6.0        6.0        7.0 d            14.1                     34.2
CD cms  1-4) UR= 142              21.9        16.1       13.0               7.2                     5.3
LI EIC=. AZ AXS (ESS)             41.2       47.0        53.5              G.6                     "5.
roast HU. IM (NI sew)            150.0       22.0       101.0              64.9                    39.7
ACES TO SAB VAMIt  (ZiW)
L                                 ..         3.0       23.0              46.0                    U5.3
DItAH.                                      10.0       40.0              57.6                     76.5
N.AL                                         1.0      1.0               37.1                    44.2
aS  mO  UEIA  maScL
CZ OF i01ULAUOU
TOTAL                             ..        15.0       23.0              50.1                     56.3
gang                              ..        19.0       20.0              52J                      73.6
AL                                ..         4.0       24.0       *       4J                      25.3
2QOULAfO   M PTSZCIWA           460.0        310.0    11530.0            7731.7                  190.7
POP. PE N11SDIN    OI           4310.0 if  7610.0      2300.0            2464J.                   606.2
PrO. 1!    -     an
TOTAL                          13SO.0     150.0      17200A            11U2.1                    3S2.0
3U36                            230.0        ..       700.00            U51. A2A.0
RDuL                              ..         ..      3160.0            256.                     2716.7
ADlSUSS5ffi   DUSTTaL 333          ..          ..         ..               41.1                    27.3
AEZSE SIZ or 30
TOTAL                             4.4        4.6
URBEAN                            4.9        3.3
RUEAL                             4.3        4.7
AVERAG NO. oW PERSOS/300
TOTAL                             ..         1.5
URBAN                             ..         1.6
Rnum                              ..         1.3
arOF NIELLs  XITN ujCT.
TOAL                              ..         ..
mau                              ..          ..         .                  ..
m.                                ..         .....



-24 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
DDOIICSXA             - SOCSAL XNDICATORS DATA SEET
NDoNESIA                            REEECE GRIWPS (I TD  AE ES) /a
RUST                    (moSr RECENT EMA) /b
CM RcT           MIDDLE                 MIDDLE EIDOLE INCOlE
1960Lb     197a!  r m              ASrA A PACIFIC         LAT. AMCA A CAR
ADJUSTED EROLLME  RAOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  71.0        77.0      10.0               100.7                   106.7
MALE                   86.0       83.0       106.0             104.4                    108.5
FPhALE                 58.0       71.0        94.0              97.2                    104.6
SECONMDY: TOTAL                   6.0        15.0       33.0              47.B                     44.2
MALE                   10.0       20.0        38.0              50.6                     42.7
FECALE                  3.0       10.0        27.0              44.B                     44.9
VoCATIONAL (Z or sECOiwAR)         20.4        22.1       13.9              18.4                     13.3
PUPIL-T1EACI  RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        29.0       29.0              30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                        14.0        13.0       16.0              22.2                     16.7
COSO-PZO
PASSENGR CARSITUSAD POP             1.1         2.1        4.1 le           10.1                     46.0
RAIIO UCXEERS/THOUSAID POP          7.2        21.9      131.2             172.9                    328.3
TV  ECIZVERS/TUOMD Po0              0.1         0.1       22.6              58.5                    112.4
NEWSPAD  (VDAILX GNRAL
IrINESr-) C      X~LZ0
PERL IHOUSAB  POPIILMATX          11.0         ..        14.9              65.3                     B1.1
CINEMA AIINUAL ATTD JWAECA?T        2.          ..         1.0 Ic            3.4                      2.4
LAUOI  -NC
TOTAL LAMM FORCE (MMDS)         34191.0    41090.0    5"17.0
EMALE (PECNT)                    27.8        30.9       29.3              33.6                     23.6
AGRIWL2UR5 (PERCENT)             75.0        66.0       58.0 lc           52.2                     31.4
nDUSY  (PERCENT)                  S.0        10.0       12.0 7            17.9                     24.3
PARYICIPATIO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            36.7        35.4       35.0              38.9                     33.5
KA^LE                            54.2        49.5       *9.6              50.                      51.3
FEMALE                           20.0        21.6       20.4              26J                      15.9
ECOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2         1.3        1.3               1.1                      1.3
pE     O or PRIVATE DINCO
IICT 5S1 or   w                   ..          ..        23.5               .
aIEST 20       OUSEDS             ..          ..        49.4              48.0
-wES  20 or  OUiS                 ..          ..         6.6k              6.4
LouEST 40 OF 0                    ..          ..        1.k               15.5                      ..
-  TA0   -
-AD AESOUT POER  INCME
LEVEr. (USS PER CAPIA
MA1..                                       124.0 /b   124.0 re            ..                     289.3
RIRAL                             ..        106.0 7    106.0 7h          151.9                    115.3
IUD   RELAUI  POYE! INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CPrw
4                                 ..          ..       119.0 /h          177.9                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        98.0 7i;         164.7                    359.7
EsNAD  Pw. EW ABSOLUTE
POWER!! lEONE LEL (Z)
Dam                               ..         51.0 1%    26.0 h            23.5
R..                                          59.0       i.0 Th7           37B.
..Tr AVALABL
IOT APPLICABLE
N OTS T S
Ia  Yhe grap avrage for each indicator m  popuLatlcn-walhted arittmetic _mas. Caverag of countries
aong the ndlcacoce depe_ds on waladblUty of data ad Is not unifom.
fb   ufles otbmwiAe nted. 'Data for 1960" refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betweem
1969 and 1971; ad data for "net Recent Ette"beween 1981 and 1983.
/c  198O; /d 1977; /. 1979; /f 1962; 4 1976; th 3980 price.
JWU. 1985



- 25-                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DEdNMOt OF SOCL UDICATOS
Not: AMthough   dataaedrwn fram stmoanerallyJdmd thenumtautaivead  aiable. it sbould amobe noWmdt  they nm mot beineratanNy
mauprable became orde lack ofastndwdimd deltions mat    on ad by dif_nt emuenm in col_echng th dat. The data am. no_tuu. matid to
decribe _oa mawhtude. indicte tnds, d dmethanze cetain major dillrmeua betuun eo_tmi
Tbg ererem grup ae t1) tI emay Vu* of ie subjectMy md (2) a couny gmp wit anewhat hiher a nome than th ammny
guo dof te s  county (cet fer HIben. Oi Expatn"' g.op wre Midd       e Nrh Af    d Middle Eat- jai d  bbeaff om
macioadb ra aiflidm). In th re  op dat the avemav am pn_mmn wightad ,ihi'nti mea  for  mdcar mnd ho  only w    majrty
ofthe coftil in a*raup ba dta for thai indicatai Sinc shea evoae aocouatin moog the indicao demendt avaibit aofdat andis oat nfoenn,
cauun mm beexered in eatng average of oindieior to noodc Thme auvaaweoly tieufti in conpeingde value of otmindimfioa a tun mnon
tbe ceuny and r_rae poupa
AREA (thousand sq.kzn)                                        Crud Blu Awe (pm rdwas -Number ofive birtbs i the year
Toizl-Total surface area comtprng land ae and iland watas;    per thousand of mid-year populaion 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cr Deat Rae (per th.uuud-Number of deats m the year
AgEsoieu l-Estimate of agriulural area used tempararily or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanedy for crops. pastues. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gnu Repreieti. Rme-Aveage number ofdaughters a   n
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          wil bear in her nomal reductive period if sbe
prsnt age-specifi: fertiliy rtes uualy five-year avegs cuding
GNP PER CAPIrA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
mrket prces, calulated by same convesion nethod as WorY       F       Pf-Awpr, And (eitaudsJ-Annual num-
lank Atls (1981-83 basis); 1983 daa                           berofacoeptorbirth-cntrol devices nd  auspicesof national
ENERGY CONSUMMON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  fily planning proram
consumption of commercial primary enrgy (coal and lignite.    Fin7y P1       41wr (par   .finriedue)-Tht percen-
p     _eleum natural gps and hydro-. nuclar and geothermal .ec-  tagc of maried vomen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
triety) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands a  practcing any form ofconracepto  Womcn
1932 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are genemly women aged 15-49. although for
some countri=s conacptive usag  is measumrd for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIsrCS                                grOU
Tot Pupulaie  Mid-Year (*-auds-As of July 1 1960.1970.        FOOD AND NUtlltION
and 19B3 data.
Urhau Pupofutius. (pqrcent Of asa-R;tio of urban to          capet annual productia  of all food commoditi  Production
populaton; different definitions of Arban arcas may affect compar-  emcludes animal feed and seed for agiculturm. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960.1970. and 1983 data.    indude prmary commodities (eg. sugarcane instd of sugar,
PepuluIau prejecliuw                                          whhic  arc edible andi contain nutrients (cg. coffee and tca axe
Poprrhrun in year 2000-The prqection of population for 2000.  cduded). they compris ceals root crops. puls, oil seds.
made for cach eonomy separely. Strg with infomation on        vegetables fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
tstal population by age and sex, fertity raes, mortality rates and  vcstock products. Aggregate production of ach country is based
iternational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national avrage producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gencralid  19B2 data.
assumpuions until the population became stationary            P- Capita Supl qipf lvli (p qcaurofreq _Jeim   -Comput-
Stariouary popularion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ad from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity rates have not changed over a long peiod. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domesiic produc-
femility rates have simult,neouslv remained at replcment level  tion imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= ) In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and cqual to the death rate, the age suctur  is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Rcquirements were
constant. and the growth mte is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologcal needs for nomnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteistics of  and health considerng environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of deline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lcveL                                     waste at household leveL 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popuataon Momenzant-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capia SuWply of rwem (gra  per dy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the timc that rcplacemcnt-lvel frtility has been  percapita net supply of food per day. Netsupply offood isdefined
achieved; that is even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for miniumn allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that rertily remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat level from year i onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protcin as an
Aepulsin D rsii.                                              avage fo the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kt.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply-, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 197C. and 1983 data.              Pe Capi Poei Supply hor Aanu a  Pulise-41Protein supply
Per sq.k- agricuural land-Computed as abovc for agricultural  offoodderivedfiromanimal andpulsesingrantsperday; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 dat                           1970 and 1977 daa.
Populuue Age Sruewe (percenr)-Children (0-14 ycars). work-    Child Vffes 1-4) Deat Rate (perthousand)-Number of dcaths of
ingage(I5-64 years). and retired l65 yeas and over) as percentage  childe aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the samn  age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
Populad.m Growth Rate (percenu)-rosaIL-Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Pwpuluie Grvwth Rae (perrew)-wha Annual growth rates          Lefe Expectawy at lirh (rears)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970483 data.   infant would live if prevailing pattcrns of mortality for all people



- 26 -                                     ANEX I
Page 4 of 6 pages
at the time of of its birth we to sy tbe ame throughout its 1if  ApE- hr Jtaio - prhwy. ad secaondary-Total student en-
1960. 1970 and 1933 date,                                     roiled in primary and asconday kvdels dhided by itumbes of
4how Ma         t (POP               br of infat who dic      tad     a tin  orspoding lee
before rachis one y   of age per tousnd live bir  i a gven
year. 1960 1970 mid 19h3 dat.                                 CON         ON
Ace  to Si*  War (P        of                  Mt fand _   hsa   _  r _(pm tsvrd I  l I JPI                   car com-
wm-Number of peopl (oLbm   d ral wth rasonble                 po  motor can  eang ke  thn dght perons; cludes ambul-
-   to safe waer supply (mdtludtad srfa  wat   or              om. harses ad militay Vehicles.
untrea td but uncrinsn       wae such as thst frm  protecd     W   A          (pm.                     typo ar -eve
boeol.  pig and sanitauy well) as percentages of theirmrpee-  ror radio broadcast to genral public per thonusnd of population
fiv popWalom  In an urban am a public fmtein or stsndpoat       l       -         c        in countrieu and in yea  wh
locte not m, tha 200 meer fiom a homusemy he cnded            restaonof radio smt wa in effect; data for remn year may
a bing with  raodis ablecces of that hos  In rural -          n  be        I Ince most countries abolished licensidng
reaLwnable    would i*mpl htte hosewifeor membenrs fthe
bousel_old do not bve to sped a disproportionae par of te day  J       'A ' (w      4_-         T       frb        u
in facbm  the fws   waer noedse tonFl publi pr thousd popubdon; emcludes unliend TV
receves in counies and in ya  when registration of TV ses w
Accas to   _ DiSd (p9=r  of u                          in d-rt  _
use-Number of peopw   (otL aurban  nud u) served by
excre  dispasal a percntaw  of teir respeive populations      I"pC               ( pf tize,dupb.Ik-Shows the aver-
Exere  dispoul may  iude the coUeto  and dispouL wih or       ap eruato  of -daily geal interest nwspape. defined as a
without teatmt, of human e:cret, and wasewater by warn-       pfwOda publco devoted primarily to eodig geal news.
borne systems or the use of pit prvies and simir inallakins   It as conSdered to be -dily" if it appear at lst four tims a weL
Pbphsa pm. Pysk-Pation divided by number of prac-             Cue Ami Aunapw  Capt*a per Ye-Based on the
usingphyscians qualified froma media school at uvty lve       number of tucet sod durng the ye. iuwludig admisons to
Pp.hro. pm No-Vd f F- 1b.uu divided by  nber of               driv  emnema and mobie units.
practicing mae and fema  gauduae nure  asstat nurse
pracical nues and nursig auxiliaries.                         L        FORC
Ppulisu p- H.pie Bmd-mA  aim,    r                                 LWoFr F    (   raadu-Economnically actv pen  in-
(tot  urban and rur  divided by the  respective a       of    ldin arme fores and uneniployed but ecduding houswve.
hopit beds avalaplenin m  pub anstuten..ands                            tc_. covering popultin  or all ags Definitons in
hospitals and rehabilitaton centr. Hospails are esiacseam    various counties are not comparable: 1960.1970 and 1983 data
pemanendy staffed by at least one physicEas.  _e  prov-       F*-f        J (prcea)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaly custodil cue are not included. Rural hospiai  force.
howevenicl4dc health and melical cetes not pem ntly staffed   Agdrbw  (percoar)-Labor for  in fanig, foresty. huting
by a physicia (but by a nmal asistant. nure. midwi, etc.)    and fishing a peentage of total labor foone 1960. 1970 and 19S0
which offer nptient accommodaon and provide a limited rng     dat
of medical faciities.                                         Iadsry (percmutj-Labor force in mining. conSmtr     mann-
Admim s per p ospwa Red-Total number of admiswio  to or       ractung and dectricity. water and gps as pemrtag of total bor
dicare from hospital divided by the number of beds.          force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
-._SING                                                      sPraJf-t                          aadjJitk4i1articipatio
HOUSING                                                      oractviy mtesare computed as totaL male. and female labor force
A-qe Sire of H      _mM  (p--- p- heuuui#s4 -eeed . m{          perentae of total male and femal popultin  of all ags
aa edorz-A hunbhold consus ofa group ofindividuals whbo share      irwy. 1960. 170. and 1933 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarts and thr main nms. A boarder or ldxFr may or     p ipeim  au  mdecting age-sex strctu  of the popuion. and
nay not be incuded in the household for stistc  purpos.       lng time trd A few cmates are from national sources.
A;re Number of Perss per Room-fol4 ar. _d                     Ecewmie Depsudey Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room  in aUrban and rural       65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwlings. respectvely Dwdlings exclude
non-permanent suctur  and unoccupied par.                    INCOME DtSTRIDUTION
Permeq of Dweags with Ekrriefty-tetd alan. gad rail-         Pffctage of- T.v  Disposaoabe Incom    ii      ch and lIed)-
Conventional dwellings with elecricity in ving quartes as peaen-  Accruing to peentikl groups of househohi ranked by total house-
ag of totaL urban, and rurl dwllings respectively.            hold income
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGlET GROUPS
A4jused Emwfiient Rmij                                       The foUwing esties are very approximat measures of poverty
liinay sdhol - tora. mak .d fmwk-Gross toL              an   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolhnet of all ages at the primay level as perentags of  EadimatedAisltwe Pwo ety     le   d (S3 per ceihr)-orbau
resptive pnmazy sdoo-age populatins While many countnes  '      d ,r-Absolutc povtry iincone leve is that income  'vd
consider primary school age to be 6-1l yeas others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
difTcrencss in country prae in the ags and duration of school  non-food rquirements is not affordablec
are reflected in the ratios givaL For some  countries with universal  EsnteI Rdsdie Pvery lacow Leed rUSper capsta)-wrila
edtcation, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent mnem some  and nmi-Rural relative poverty income levd is on-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stndard prmary-schol  averge per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural levd with adjustment for higher cost of
Secvar.<y scbol - rowl. mak and fernal-Ctmpured as above:    living in urban a
smondary educaion requires at east four yea  of approved pri  Esnaz  Appulsi  Delew Abs'  APmer!y Inm  Level Iper-
mary instruc ion provides g8neraL vocafionaL- or  rtining     cee)-garir a  rn- * Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupi usually of 12 to 17 yeas of ae correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
ence courses are  enalby excluded.
Vocatoa E-o-xi rmrce  of secovi"y)-vocarionai situ-                     Comparative Anaysis and Data Division
ions indude technicaL industrial. or other progm  which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnts of secondary institutions                               June 1985



_ 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6 pages
Population        155.8  illion (mid-1983)
CNP per Capita: US$560 (1983 estinate)
INDONESIA - ECOIJOIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                             Annual growth rate (Z) /b
current prices)                 Actual                                  Projected
Indlcator                            1983            U       1      z          l53  a  1985   19      1987   1988   1989   199D
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestic product /c         78,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
oDnsusption                       62,731        12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross inve.tuent Id               18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CNFS                   19,508        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Imports of CNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gross natLonal savings             12,273       33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PNTCES
= TF-defLator (1981 - 100)                        91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchsnge rate (ip per USS)                       627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of CDP at _rket prices (Z)
(at current  rice.)                          A vrage annual increase CZ) lb
1961 19/0   i97  1980   195    19V0            193M    1970-75   1975-80   19o-855   19850
Gross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100           3.9       8.4        7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54      47     32     25      26     25         2.7       4.1        3.3        4.1       3.7
Industry                       14      18     34     43      38     38         5.2      12.0        9.8        3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35      35     32      36     37         4.8       9.7        9.5       5.6        5.5
Consuttion                     91      89     79     71      78     76         4.1       8.4        9.2        6.0       4.0
Cross investment /d             8      14     20     21      18     19         4.8      18.3       12.2        2.6       5.4
Exports of GNFS                13      13     23     31      25     24         3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.1        4.0
Imports of GNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19           3.2      22.1       14.0        2.6       2.5
Gross national saving.          8       9     17     26      19     21         6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3        6.8
As Z of CDP
1960              1970                1975               1980               1984
PUBLIC FINANCE /e
Current revenue                               11.7               10.1               17.4               22.5               21.5
Current expenditures                          14.0                8.4                9.9               12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deflcit C-)                    -2.3               +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capital expenditure                            n.a.               5.0               11.3               13.0               10.0
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5                3.7                3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER UMICATORS
Annual GrP growth rate (X)                            4.5             7.6              7.1             4.1              4.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                 2.4             5.1              4.7             2.0              2.5
Annual energy consmiption growth rate (X)             2.2            11.2             11.0             1.4              4.6
ICOR                                                  2.2             2.2              3.3             4.8              4.0
Marginal savings rate                                 0.30            0.48             0.28           -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                     1.2             Z.8              0.84            0.57             0.53
/a Estimates.
75  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7F  At market prices.
7Hr Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consuaption.
7Te Central Government only3. on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 31, 1985



- 28 -
Populatlon    : 155.8 rilllon (mld-1983)                                                                    ANNEX I
GNl per Capita: US$560 (1983 estimate)                                                                      Page 6 of 6 pages
INDCNZSIA - BALANCE OF PAINENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
kHL1l1ouz Uz5i at current pricesj
A-tual                                Prlected
lY9W     1981     1982     1983      L9B4A   1985     IRO       1981     199D
BAlANCE OF PATHENTS/b
L.  axports                                    22,385   22,994   15.672   19,817   20.243  20,769   22,868   26.170   36.235
(a)  Oil end LNG (gross)                   17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoil                                 5,588    4,170    3,928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  Imports (lcluding net NFS)               -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  011 sector                           -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3.135  -3,801   -4.113   -3,619   -6.540
(b)  Nonoil imports                      -11.837  -14,561  -15.824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14.899  -16.462 -22.438
(c) NFS (net)                             -1,702   -2,602  -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3.  Resouree balance                            5,296      424   -3,667       162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2.800
4.  Factor services                            -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4.596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708  -7,287
(a)  Interest public debt                   -823      -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620 -1,598   -1.851   -2,132  -4.487
(b)  Other (net)                          -2,342   -2.216   -2,428   -3.220   -2.976  -2,930   -3.143   -3.576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                 76       67      105        95      100     112       119      125      150
6.  Balance on current account                  2,207   -2.719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7.  Direct foreign iivestment                     140      142      311       193      250     250       275      300      375
B.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                           2.551    2.673   4,192    4,965    3.828   4,988    5.428    6.068    6.892
(b) Amortization                            -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628 -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
(c)  Net disbursements                      1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9.  Other capital (net)                        -1,U88      -31      455    1,975       287    -143     -104      -418      133
10.  COange in reserves (- Increase)            -2,736      988    3,350   -1,619      -873    -400      -672     -9S6     -309
11.  Net official reserve-                       7.342    6,354    3.004    4,623    5.496   5,896    6.588    7.534    9.384
Reserves In months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                       6.5      4.4      2.1       3.5      4.6     4.6       4.7      4.9      4.5
Harandtu. Item,
Net forelgn assets of the banking
system/c                                    10,787   10,622    6.322    8.395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11.969   13,819
Total reaerves in month. of nonoil
liports + NFS                                  9.6      7.4      4.3       6.4      8.2     8.1      7.9       7.8      6.6-
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DBTVid
Gross Dlsbursements                            2 551    2.673   4 192    4 965    3 828
ConcessIonal Loans -                          -7W       i        ** :3       W        W
mllateral                                  1TM        7I7        J Wu   3f* 7T
IDA                                           42       69       78        60       54
Other                                          6        7        B         8       19
Nonconcessional Loans                          1892    10    3 503    4357    3 277
BiLateral                                   -ff        '17w     '317      =W
lIED                                           331      314      505      489       772
Other mltilateral                               52       85      126       160      163
Private-source                               1,421    1.310    2.356    3,219    1,938
Erternal Debt
Debt outstadingn and disbursed /e           14 971   15 870   18 515   21.686   22 863
Official-source                                                      1 3 1D,  1
Private-source                             5,465    5.812    7,403    9.649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                             9.481   11.387   12,870   13.778   13,973
Debt Service
Total service payments                       1,759    2.047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                     823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Paynents as S of exports/f                     7.7      8.9     12.0      12.9     16.0
Averag e Interest Rate on Nev Loans (2)          8.1      8.7      9.2       8.8      9.1
OrtIcisa-source                                5.4      7.8      8.8       8.7      8.6
Private-source                                12.4      9.4      9.5       8.8      9.8
Average Maturity of Nev Loans (Years)           18.8     15.5     15.2      15.1     15.9
OIclaL-source                               24.4     20.5     20.6      22.3     20.9
Prlvate-source                                 9.8     11.1     11.1      10.3      9.2
As X of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due withLn 5 years                                                                            34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                           65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within flrst year                                                                         7.0
/a  EstIatt-s.
7T On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7F  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks In addition to offifcal reseLves.
77 Excludesyprivate nonguaranteed loans.
i*  At end of period.                                                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
ft  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                May 31, 1985



-29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                    Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,584.59   642.71         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.00      -        68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II          65.00      -        29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                   -      49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00      -         23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00      -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00      -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              123.20      -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                             -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00      -        86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00      -        41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         35.50      -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                  -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III         99.00      -        34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                -      45.00      27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Eztension rr             -      42.00      24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00      -        53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV          42.00      -        29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   SmalLholder Coconut Development             46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00      -        37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00      -        21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00      -        24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-30                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           161.00       -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development         106.00       -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00       -        75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00       -        84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00       -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -         85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00       -        76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -        21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation iEast Java            70.00       -        48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -        41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           68.10       -         59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -         19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -          4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         154.60       -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -        235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.65       -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.70       -        204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                             50.00       -         50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         77.81
/a Not yet effective.



- 31 -                          ANNEX EI
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a       11.30      -         11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II /a        131.00      -        131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                  -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                    6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                        3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business                (US$ million)
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6      2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel      Tourism              9.8      1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9       -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6       3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong      -   Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9       -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0      1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Constructicn
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982/5 'P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing Capital Market         5.0      0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0       -        25.0
Total gross commitments                        143.6      19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and canceLled            107.6       7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                               36.0      12.2       48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                    9.5



- 33 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:      5 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:      GOI assisted by IFAD-financed
consultants
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                      October 1984
{d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                               January 1985
Ce)  Date of completion of negotiation:    August 1985
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness:          February 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
Ca) annually study the most appropriate methods for providing credit and
cooperative services to farmers receiving cattle under the project,
and furnish the results of the study to the Bank for comments by
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 1987 (para. 42);
(b) ensure that actions are taken to sign a financing agreement between
GOI (represented by Bank Indonesia) and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI),
and a subfinancing agreement between BRI and the Directorate General
for Livestock Services as this is a condition of loan effectiveness
*                of the Bank loan (para. 43);
(c) procure vehicles for the project according to an annual schedule
*                satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48); and
(d)  ensure that cattle are shipped in accordance with specified stan-
dards (para. 49).



THAX-$LAND         t                       r                          ,                 1                                                              IRDlf
;       J        >x             ~~~~~~~~~~~South  China   .      ,          b                                                                iy>9/  EELOPMENTPROJECT  "
S~~~~~~~~VI                               SeaLs 
)4 I                                                                              :.W  A ;;. Ioes=gX0
15;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Id cob .mvm r.u A4  p" , 
\    w .__W1||s_            . ~~~~~~IFd                    ALAn                    1a  SIA                                                                           , 
i t  1l"@  t      -    ;*,8,;<+  .g.-g.#;. - :RS,        0       ; 8          >=~~~~~~~I"                         twww A..,-
ft    ILLL' : ::



