Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqwrt No. 5615-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 18, 1985
Projects Departmeit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Officee
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENiTS
US$1.00       =   Rupiah (Rp) 1,100 (June 1985)
Rp 1 million  =   US$909
GOVERNKENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)    =   2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)        =   0.264 gallons (US)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MAETE         -  Agency for Agricultural Extension, Training and Education
MAAD          -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BAKITWAN      -  Institute for Animal Disease Research
BAPPENAS      -  Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan National:  National
Development Planning Agency
BCDIU         -  Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit
BI            -  Bank Indonesia (Central Bank)
BPKP          -  Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan:  State Financial
and Development Supervisory Board
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGLS          -  Directorate General of Livestock Services, Ministr- of
Agriculture
DIC           -  Disease Investigation Center
cOI           -  Government of Indonesia
IFAD          -  InternationaL Fund for Agricultural Development
KUD           -  Koperasi Unit Desa (village cooperative)
NTB           -  Nusa Tenggara Barat
NTT           -  Nusa Tenggara Timur
PHO           -  Project Management Office (Jakarta)
PMU           -  Project Management Unit (Provinces)
PPL           -  Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan: Village Level Agricultural
Extension Workers
PPM           -  Penyuluh Pertanian Madia:  Agricultural Extension Staff
(middle level)
PPS           -  Penyuluh Pertanian Specialis:  Agricultural Extension Staff
(subject matter specialist)
REC           -  Rural Extension Center
RLO           -  Rickettsia-Like Organism
SATGAS        -  Satuan Petugas Lapangan (Field task force comprising
animal health, extension and husbandry workers)



FOR OFVCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SKALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY *.. ***...........***********.****iv
Io  BACKGROUMD         1..............................................         1
Introduction ........                                  .me......           1
The Agricultural Sector             ........mme..eem*m..emm.               1
The Transmigration Program ..............         ........... ......       2
Bank Assistance for Cattle Development ....................                3
The IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development Project ............               4
Rationale for Bank Support .5...............................               5
II.  FORMULATION OF THE SMALLHOLDER CATTLE PROJECT .............                5
Project Size and Scope .....          ...............................      5
Beneficiaries .....ee...                .....e...m........e.               7
Cattle Resources and Breed Choice             .........................    7
Rteducing Shipping Losses . ..7..e....                  ....m..            7
Animal Health .......mc..     ................ce .....e c.........         8
CattLe and Farm Development ..c.......................       ...           9
Research into Cattle and Upland Arable Farming .............              10
Credit Systems ..eece.eemmemec.eemccemcee...................              10
Credit in the Proposed Smallholder Cattle Project .........               11
III.  THE PROJECT   .       ..............................................      12
Objectives and Scope .... ..................................              12
Detailed Components            .......................................    14
Status of Preparation  mmcc..mcc.  mm.... cm....  me...........           18
Implementation Schedule .......  c mc. .........                          18
Cost Estimates ....... ... cc...... ..........................            19
Financing ................c............               me0.0  ......       20
Procurement    cee.......... O...........bm ........  . ........          21
Disbursements ..............        m...........m.... m.m.. ...           24
Accounts and Audits .......  .......ccm..                   ..cc          24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in January 1985. The mission consisted of Mr. Hewson and
Ms. Garrison (Bank), Messrs. Henderson and Owens (Consultants) and Mr. Wilsor.
(IFAD consultant).
This document has a restritd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
or tbeir oficial duies Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriution.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGECENT . ....................... *.....                25
GeneraL Organization ......................................                 25
Project Management Office .................................                 25
Project Kanagement Units .... *.............................                26
Field Task Forces (SATGAS) ....................                             26
Credit Administration ..........* .........*..............                  27
Animal Health Services  -..........     ......... ........... ....          28
Cattle Marketing ............................        ..............         29
Monitoring and Evaluation ....o ...............o....00.0.0                  29
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..-... ........ .................o...            30
Farm Development and Farm Incomeso.........................                 31
Beneficiaries .......o..0..0.... 0.0..0.0.0.0.0...0.0.................. 30
Institution Building. o*oo ...oo0ee**o*....... ***o.oo..osoe                31
Economic Rate of Return ....o.               ...    ...........             32
Project Risks ...... .oo..........o.o .......................               32
Sensitivity Analysis ..o......*..........*..**.......                       34
Cost Recoveryo.o..o.o.............oo....o......o.o.o......o..o..........    34
Environmental and Socitl Impact              ...........................    35
VI.  ACREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..*.           o......... .......      36
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
2.1   Settlers and Cattle Supplied under the Project ...........                 6
3.1   Project Cost Summarye  ......o...oo...oo.o...o.                           20
3.2   Financing..................*.............................                 21
3.3   ProcureSent ......  of...  Eono...mic Rate2of3Rrn..........               23
3.4   Disbursements .....oooooeoo,.,..Oooooo............................... 24
5.1   Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return .oe...................................  34



- Lll -
ANNEXES                                                                   Page No.
1.   Detailed Costs, Allocation of Loan Proceeds and Disbursements        38
2.   Project Analysis                                                     50
3.   Cattle Procurement and Distribution                                  71
4.    Disease Investigations and Control Services                         85
5.   Forage Program                                                       92
6.    Konitoring and Evaluation                                           96
7.   Technical Assistance and Training                                    99
8.   Statements of Expenditure                                           101
9.   Contents of the Project File                                        102
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Directorate General of Livestock Services within
the Ministry of Agriculture (IBRD 27128)
2.    Project Management Organization Chart (IBRD 27129)
3.   BCDIU Organization Chart Showing Work Relationship with DEC (IBRD
27127)
MAP  -   IBRD 18822R



- iv -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Loan Amount:    US$32 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description: The main objective of the project would be to supply cattle to
smallholder farmers, mostly newly settled in transmigration
areas, for use as draft animals, to provide manure for sus-
taining crop production, and to raise farm incomes. The
project which would follow up on a smallholder cattle project
supported by a loan from the International Fund for
Agricultural DeveLopment (IFAD), would finance (a) procurement
of about 76,500 selected breeding heifers and about 7,600
bulls in South Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara and East Java (Madura)
and their transportation by private cattle traders to Sumatra
and other Sulawesi provinces; (b) distribution of these cattle
to about 76,500 smallholder farmers in Sumatra and Sulawesi,
including transmigrants, local participants in transmigration
schemes, and farmers near transmigrant communities; (c)
distribution of first and second generation heifers (offspring
of the project cattle and cattle supplied under the IFAD
amallholder cattle project) to about 55,000 farmers; (d)
cattle handling facilities, veterinary services, extension
services, forage production and disease investigations; and
(e) technical assistance and training for project implementa-
tion, monitoring and evaluation, and disease eradication.
Distribution of offspring would continue beyond the five-year
project period, reaching in total some 237,000 farmers. These
farmers usually have difficulty in growing arable crops on
more than about 1.25 ha of land because of insufficient labor
and resources. By providing cattle, land preparation would be
speeded up, soil fertility and crop yields would be raised,
and farm labor would be freed-up to clear reserve land, mostly
for perennial cash crops. In this way, cattle would play an
important role in raising transmigrant family incomes above
the subsistence level.
Project Risks: The main project risks are that (a) demand for cattle may be
less than expected; (b) disease outbreaks may reduce the
number of cattle available; and (c) shipping losses might be
excessive. To minimize these risks, (a) the project has been
kept deliberately modest in scale compared with the
transmigration program and the expected demand by local



- v -
smallhoLders; (b) an intensive disease investigation program
would be included in the project; and (c) strict measures
would be taken to improve cattle shipping standards and reduce
mortality.
Project Costs:/a                                    Local      Foreign    Total
- -- (US$ million) -
Cattle                               25.2           4.5      29.7
Forage development                    1.5           0.8       2.3
Cattle facilities & services          2.8           2.3       5.1
Technical assistance & training       2.5           1.7       4.2
Administration                        4.3           1.6       5.9
Base Cost                       36.3          10.9       47.2
Physical contingencies                2.9           1.1       4.0
Price contingencies                  12.5           2.7      15.2
Total Project Costs              51.7          14.7      66.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                 22.3           9.7     32.0
IFAD                                  8.3           3.7     12.0
Government                           21.1           1.3     22.4
Total Financing                  51.7         14.7      66.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY            1987   1988  1989   1990   1991   1992
3us~S$ mli:llion)                  ---
Annual      0.8    5.5   5.7    6.4    6.4    7.2
Cumulative  0.8    6.3   12.0   18.4   24.8   32.0
Rate of Return:      25Z based on 92% of project costs during the project
period.
/a   Project costs include US$2.2 million in taxes.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested assistance from the
Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Developmelt (IFAD), for a
smallholder cattle project to supply about 84,100 cattle - to small farmers,
mostly transmigrants, to use as draft animals, provide manure for sustaining
crop production, and raise farm incomes. GOI has increasingly recognized the
role that cattle can play in developing farms in the Other Islands and
obtained assistance from IFAD in 1980 for a Smallholder Cattle Development
Project to buy cattle in the overstocked provinces of Nusa Tenggara and South
Sulawesi and distribute them to settlers in Sumatra. The project was
appraised and is closely supervised by the Bank on behalf of IFAD, and should
be completed in March 1986. A mid-term review in May 1984 found that the
project was progressing well, and its objectives would be attained. In the
light of this, the proposed cattle project was prepared in November 1984 by
IFAD-financed consultants and GOI staff.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive empLoyment to raise incomes of the rural
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand;
(c) expand agricultural exports particularly of tree crops; and (d) ensure
productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and natural resources.
1.03      Role and Performance.  Food crop production forms 60% of agricul-
tural GDP and 18% of total GDP, and the sector remains of overwhelming import-
ance to most Indonesians. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas,
and agriculture is the major source of income for about 60% of rural house-
holds and 10Z of urban households. Some 16 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on 14 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and
tobacco.
1.04      Food Crops.  GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of
rice. Estimated 1984 production is 25.8 million tons, and it is expected that
a large measure of rice self-sufficiency can now be sustained. Over the past
decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and
sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6X p.a. Yield
1/ About 76,500 heifers and 7,600 bulls.



-2
improvement through intensified research and extension, and expansion in
harvested area, would serve many of the poorest parts of Java which are best
suited to dry land farming, and especially the Other Islands where transmigra-
tion is opening up more land (paras. 1.06-1.07).
1.05      Cattle.  There are some 8.3 million cattle (and 2.5 million buffalo)
in Indonesia, almost aLl of which are kept by smallholders primarily as a
source of draft power and manure, and second as a capital reserve and source
of cash income. Java, Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara account for 6.7 million
head, or 80Z of the national herd. In the main transmigration areas of
Sumatra and Kalimantan, there are at present few cattle. About 70% of all
land cultivated for food crops is prepared by cattle or buffalo power, the
other 30% by hand labor. Mechanization is discouraged on employment grounds,
and is still negligible. The herd offtake, at about 12% nationally (14% on
Java), supplies an accelerating demand for meat, especially on Java where
cattle slaughter has increased by about 3% p.a. over the last 10 years. GOI
policies in the sector have been shaped by a tendency for the national herd to
decline in the 1970s, mostly because of increasing pressure on land on Java
where most cattle were located, and greatly increased slaughter demand from
rising urban incomes. Accordingly GOI banned meat exports, banned the
slaughter of breeding females, and set in motion programs designed to
encourage herd growth in the Other Islands. After several largely
unsuccessful attempts in the late 1970s to increase the national herd by
importing breeding cattle, GOI cattle programs now focus on moving indigenous
cattLe from extensively grazed small herds on natural grasslands to individual
ownership by smallholders, especially to support the transmigration programs
in Sumatra and Kalimantan where draft animals are in scarce supply.
The Transmigration Program
1.06      About two thirds of Indonesia's present population of over 160 mil-
lion reside in Java, an intensively cultivated, densely populated island with
about 7% of the nation's land. The major purposes of the transmigration
program in the Other Islands are to: (a) create employment opportunities for
and improve the incomes of impoverished and landless laborers on Java, Bali
and Lombok; (b) alleviate population pressures especially in environmentally
vulnerable areas; (c) promote balanced regional development; and (d) increase
food and tree crop production. Before the mid-1970s both the size and quality
of the transmigration program were limited by shortages of funds; pre-settle-
ment preparation was poor; sites were often located in remote and inaccessible
areas; and agricultural services and draft power to help cultivate food crops
were unavailable. Many transmigrant communities often remained at subsistence
levels. During GOI's first Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-1974)
and Repelita II (1974-1979), 46,000 and 83,000 sponsored families were trans-
migrated, respectively.
1.07      In Repelita III, GOI increased its transmigration program to about
500,000 families over the five years 1979/80-1983/84. Achievements seem to
have been remarkable. Some 169,000 families migrated spontaneously without
official support, and 366,000 families participated in official settlements,
in all some 535,000 families. Of the 366,000 official transmigrants, about



320,600 were in place by the end of 1983/84,1/ the balance were placed (using
Repelita III budget funds) during 1984/85. About 90Z of the official trans-
migrants (or some 329,000 families) migrated from Java, Bali and Nusa
Tenggara, the remainder were local residents or spontaneous migrants given
land on official sites. For Repelita IV, COI has established a target of
about 750,000 families, of which about 450,000 will be official transmigrants,
and 300,000 spontaneous migrants. It is expected that about 400,000 of the
official migrants will be settled by the end of 1988/89, the remainder in
Repelita V. Some 215,000 of the Repelita IV transmigrants are expected to be
settled in provinces selected for the proposed smallholder cattle project.
Bank Assistance for Cattle Development
1.08      In early 1973, the Bank financed a project 3/ to establish a state-
owned ranching corporation (PT Bina Mulya Ternak, PT BMT). The project was to
establish seven ranches (about 70,000 ha) on Sulawesi and Sumba, and included
a credit program for about 40 small private ranches. Faced with managerial,
financial and technical problems, including (a) a shortage of land for ranch-
ing, (b) difficulties in adapting Australian technology packages, and (c) low
productivity of imported cattle, the project was reduced in 1975 to the devel-
opment of three ranches by/PT BHT and was completed in 1981. The Project
Performance Audit Report _/ confirmed the disappointing performance of the
ranching operation, though valuable lessons were learned about pastures and
the performance of local cattle. In 1977, as a result of these difficulties,
the FA0/IBRD Cooperative Program reviewed the livestock sector with a view to
improving the Bank's intervention. The report drew attention to the tradi-
tionaL use of cattle as draft power for smalLholder cultivation in Java and
Bali, the place of origin of most transmigrants. It also pointed out the
benefits to be obtained by removing breeding heifers from increasingly
overstocked lands in the dry Eastern Islands and placing them in Sumatra and
Kalimantan, both islands with few cattle and where transmigration settlement
is expected to continue. Largely as an outcome of this sector work, financial
assistance was obta .ed from IFAD in 1980 for a Smallholder Cattle Development
Project in gma tra,T and from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for
Kalimantan.-   The ADB also provided a secoil loan for smallholder cattle
development in Kalimantan in November 1984.,L
2/   About 200,000 o& the Repelita III transmigrants were settled in provinces
selected for the proposed smallholder cattle project.
3/ Beef Cattle Development Project (Cr. 355-IND).
4/ Operations Evaluation Department, Report No. 3994, June 1982.
5/ IFAD Loan 35-ID.
6/ Loan 444-INO.
7/ Loan 706-INO.



The IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development Project
1.09      Objectives.  The IFAD project concept is to procure about 45,000
head of mostly Bali breed cattle from East Java, South Sulawesi and the Nusa
Tenggara provinces, and distribute them to smallholder farmers, especially
transmigrants, in Sumatra. Project work began in April 1981.
1.10      Special features of the IFAD project are:
(a)  private cattle traders were contracted for initial selection of
animals, quarantine, shipping and distribution to selected small-
holders;
(b)  effective livestock extension services were established in the
distribution areas at the village level where small teams of project
staff (SATCAS) provided technical advice, veterinary services, and
farmer training;
(c)  farmers will repay debts for the heifers supplied by returning to
GOI two 18-month old calves. The heifer calves are redistributed to
other smallholder farmers, males will be sold for fattening;
(d)  in an attempt to introduce farmers to cash credit systems, the Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), acting as a channeling bank, opened an
account with farmers receiving cattle, charging the farmer with the
contract cost of the cattle, and crediting the local market value of
the calves returned to the project. Interest is charged at 6Z p.a.
on the outstanding debt. If the farmer has a positive balance when
two calves are returned, he wilL receive a cash payment. Negative
balances will be written off by COI. In practice, these credit
arrangements have not been fully implemented, as discussed in para.
2.21;
Ce)  a computerized cattle inventory system was set up to enable the
ownership and location of each animal, together with credit records,
to be closely monitored; and
(f)  intensive investigations into Jembrana disease, a potentially
serious health-risk of the Bali breed, were initiated in a specia-
list Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit (BCDIU).
1.11      Project Performance.  As of May 1985, approximately 25,000 head of
cattle had been procured and distributed successfully. Total cattle distribu-
tion should reach about 44,000 head by 1986, slightly less than targeted at
appraisal since costs of cattle were initially higher than expected. Losses
of the cattle distributed have been low, and quality and condition are of a
high standard (Annex 3). Cattle procured are the Bali breed, well adapted to
smallholder farming systems. The impact of cattle seems largest in relatively
new transmigration communities with at least 2 ha of food crop land per
family. Farmers eagerly receive the cattle and tend the animals with a very
high standard of cattle husbandry. Over 1,000 female offspring (heifers) from
these cattle have been returned to the IFAD project as in-kind credit



repayments, and have been redistributed to other settlers in the same
communities.
1.12      Forage seed production programs were started in East Nusa Tenggara
(NTT) in 1982, and West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) in 1983. Progress has been satis-
factory, with about 700 farmers producing seed for the project. In the dis-
tribution areas, forage nurseries have been established in each village
receiving cattle, from which farmers take planting material. A perennial
shrub called Lamtoro (Leucaena Leucocephala cv. Cunningham) is the most used
legume, although Stylosanthes is also promoted.  Setaria is the grass usually
distributed. Progress of disease investigatory work at the BCDIU
(para. 1.10 f) on the causative organism of Jembrana disease has been encour-
aging, aLthough the organism has yet to be positively identified (Annex 4).
Rationale for Bank Support
1.13      The proposed project is highly suppottive of GOI's transmigration
program. The Bank is particularly concerned that transmigrants, once settled,
have the support to enable them to raise incomes above subsistence level.
Without draft power, transmigrant families can rarely cultivate more than the
I ha of cleared land given to them for growing arable crops (paras. 2.11-
2.12). Such families are also allocated 0.75 ha of reserve land, but they do
not have excess labor or resources to clear and develop it, even after several
years. In addition to providing draft power, cattle also play a key role in
providing manure which is keenly sought to improve the soils, especially in
the highly productive 0.25 ha houselot gardens which play an important role in
food output, nutrition, and incomes.
1.14      Bank and IFAD support will permit GO0  to implement a cattle project
more closely in line with transmigration program needs. The level of resour-
ces available to IFAD, which identified and supported preparation of this
project, does not now permit it to provide all the external financial assist-
ance needed for a project of the size justified, while at the same time, GO0
faces resource constraints because of reduced oil export revenues. Bank sup-
port is particularly important to continue providing the technical expertise
of Bank staff and ensure that the project's institution building activities
(including disease investigations, cattle health and extension services, and
the move toward better credit systems) receive proper attention in the cattle
program.
II. FORMULATION OF THE SMALLHOLDER CATTLE PROJECT
Project Size and Scope
2.01      Transmigration programs have primarily settled people on Sumatra,
and to a lesser extent, on Sulawesi and Kalimantan. ADB has provided two
loans to support smallholder cattle programs in Kalimantan (para. 1.08) and
there is no need for Bank or IFAD support there. The proposed smallholder
cattle project will expand the program started under the IFAD project (Loan
35-ID) in five provinces in Sumatra, and encompass four additional provinces



-6 -
not covered earlier (West Sumatra, and three Sulawesi'8 provinces), all of
which have active transmigration programs.
2.02      By 1986, some 44,000 head of cattle (40,000 cows and 4,000 bulls) 91
vill have been distributed in project provinces (para. 1.11) to about 36,000
transmigrant families, and to 4,000 locaL families nearby. Through redis-
tribution of selected offspring over the next 10 years, these cattle will
benefit in total about 100,000 families. Other GOI programs will have
provided about 20,000 transaigrant families with cattle, leaving a backlog of
about 130,000 Repelita III transmigrant families with no draft power (Annex 2,
Table 4).
2.03      In the provinces selected for the proposed project, GOI is targeting
the settlement of 235,000 families on uplands for growing food crops under
official transmigration schemes during Repelita IV (Table 2.1). In addition
(a) a large number of settlers from earlier transaigration programs want
cattle, and (b) cattle supplied by the project may be allocated to local small
farmers who fulfill the selection criteria (para. 3.07).
2.04      The proposed project will provide about 76,500 cows (plus 7,600
bulls), and through the redistribution of offspring will reach about 237,000
farmers (Table 2.1). There appears to be a very strong demand for project
cattle, and even if CO}'s Repelita IV transmigration plans lag substantially
behind targets, project viability will not be affected since a greater
proportion of cattle could be supplied to local farmers.
Table 2.1: SETTLERS AND CATTLE SUPPLIED UNDER THE PROJECT
Families receiving       Estimated settlers on arable
project cattle            uplands awaiting cattle
Redistri-
buted female           Repelita   Repelita
cows     offspring    Total      III         IV      Total
thousand head
Official transmigrants   69.0       144.6       213.6    131.0        235.0    366.0
Local farmers and
spontaneous migrants    7.5        16.0        23.5     14.6         26.0     40.6
Total               76.5       160.6       237.1    145.6        261.0    406.6
8/   South Sulawesi, Southeast SuLawesi and Central Sulawesi.
9/   Every tenth family receiving a cow also receives a bull for servicing
neighbors' cows.



-7-
Beneficiaries
2.05      Beneficiaries of the IFAD project are (a) official transmigrants,
(b) locally resettled families participating in official transmigration
schemes, (c) spontaneous migrants and (d) small farmers living near official
transmigration sites. Communities were selected which had been settled for at
least two years. Selection of communities was done jointly by Project
Management Units (PHUs), and transmigration and locaL Government officials at
the provincial or district (kabupaten) level. Settler selection within these
communities was the responsibility of subdistrict (kecamatan) level officials
and the SATGAS team assigned, with the village chiefs playing a strong role.
The communities had to be large enough (i.e., at least 1,500 farmers) to
accommodate cattle shipments of 550 head, with 500 heifers distributed, one
heifer to one farmer in three. Of these recipients, one in ten also received
a bull. Another 720 farmers in these communities are expected to receive
first and second generation offspring of this stock, and in total about 80% of
the community will eventually receive cattle.  While two thirds of the
migrants wait for redistributed first and second generation offspring, the
system (a) increases the number of communities served by the available cattle
supplies and (b) fosters peer pressure from neighbors on receiving farmers to
take good care of the cattle and offspring, and to return the offspring
promptLy for redistribution. These criteria and selection procedures have
worked well, and will be continued in the proposed project.
Cattle Resources and Breed Choice
2.06      Experience in the IFAD project confirmed that Bali breed cattle (Bos
sondaicus) are ideally suited for transmigrant farmers. Bali cattle are
reLatively small framed, but handle well and are excellent draft animals.
They normally calve each year, whereas other breeds rarely cycLe when under
nutritional stress induced by calf suckling. Because of their fecundity and
easier handling, Javanese and Balinese farmers prefer female cattle for draft
power. Initial calving rates of about 55% in the second year after the cattle
arrived appear to have been due to the initial acclimatization period and to
distribution of often immature bulls. Subsequent calving rates averaged
80Z. Mortality rates averaged 5Z in the first year on site and 2% thereafter,
and there have been few health problems. There appear to be sufficient Bali
cows available in Nusa Tenggara and South Sulavesi to supply the proposed
project and other GOI cattle programs. Analyses of provincial cattle
populations, feed resources, mortality and offtake rates indicate that these
provinces can provide a total of around 50,000 Bali heifers of 12-18 months
age each year without reducing the herds (Annex 3). The proposed project will
procure a maximum of about 17,000 head per year, and other GOI programs,
iaciuding the Kalimantan smallhoLder cattle project supported by ADB, will
need less than 10,000 head per year.
Reducing Shipping Losses
2.07      Under the IFAD project, contracts were let to prequalified private
traders who arranged their own shipping and distribution to farms. They were
paid on the basis of animals in good condition one week following tneir
arrival on farms. This method of giving responsibility to the private sector



- 8 -
has been successful. Nevertheless, there have been occasional shipping
losses, such as one case in which the ship broke down and feed and water
supplies ran out. Though financial losses are absorbed by the contractors,
they represent an avoidable economic loss to Indonesia. Under the proposed
project, more exacting minimum space, feed and water standards have been
established (para. 3.04), and contractors will be able to charter only ships
that conform. It is expected that more local ships will be modified to meet
these standards, or that purpose-built foreign vessels will be chartered if
necessary.
Animal Health
2.08      The most important diseases experienced in the IFAD project were
Trypanosomiasis, Piraplasmosis, and Bovine Malignant Catarrhal Fever
(Annex 4). Some deaths occurred shortly after distribution because of travel
stress and feed changes, but overall deaths have been Low and disease control
measures are generally adequate. Before shipping, cattle are quarantined and
vaccinated against Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Anthrax, and are treated
against Trypanosomiasis. Foot-and-mouth disease and Jembrana disease could
potentially be major health risks. An isolated outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease occurred in mainland Java in 1983. Following vaccination, quarantine,
and close supervision, East Java should be declared free of foot-and-mouth
disease in 1986.
2.09      Jembrana disease first appeared in Bali Island in 1964, and is still
endemic. Mortality and production losses are high during outbreaks, and the
export of live cattle from Bali is prohibited. There have been no confirmed
outbreaks of Jembrana disease outside of Bali Island, though undiagnosed but
Jembrana-like outbreaks occurred in East Java in 1978 (near the Bali-Java
ferry crossing) and in Lampung in 1976 shortly after a shipment of cattle from
Bali arrived. Because of the potential dangers to smallholder cattle programs
from Jembrana disease, the BCDIU was established under the IFAD project
(para. 1.10 f). Encouraging progress has been made, and investigations will
continue under the proposed project.
2.10      Veterinary services are provided through provincial units of the
Directorate General of Livestock Services (DGLS), staffed by veterinarians and
livestock production graduates and headed by a DGLS Inspector. These services
are supported by a Disease Investigation Center (DIC) in each province to
provide positive disease identification, treatment directions, and to conduct
research. Veterinarians are also posted at the district (kabupaten) level,
and supervise trained field workers (mantras) each of whom services about
2,000 head of stock. These services are generally adequate in traditional
cattle raising areas, but have had to be supplemented in the newer transmigra-
tion areas by SATGAS animal health specialists. The health services are also
hampered by communication difficulties, and isolation of the transmigration
sites from the regular veterinary services. Each provincial veterinary
service will be provided with a mobile health unit under the proposed Third
National Agricultural Extension Project, recently appraised by the Bank. The
SATGAS teams will be provided with a package of drugs to treat routine ill-
nesses, and will call on the veterinary offices in more serious cases.



-9-
Cattle and Farm Development
2.11      Most transmigrants settled during Repelita III receive a cleared
0.25 ha plot of land for their houselot and garden, and a similarly cleared
1.0 ha field area suitable for growing food crops. They are also allocated
another 0.75 ha of uncleared reserve land, which is usually more distant,
frequently sloping, or otherwise less suitable for food crops. Settlers
receive free tools and planting materials, and for three years fertilizers and
agrochemicals.
2.12      Settlers first establish the houselot garden with a variety of food
crops and trees. Next, they tackle the 1.0 ha field area, and usually manage,
with difficulty, to cultivate most of this within 1-2 years. The most common
cropping pattern is a wet season interplanted rice, maize and cassava crop,
followed by a dry season legume, frequently soybeans or peanuts, intercropped
in the cassava. In the intercrop, padi usually takes up 82% of the land,
maize 6Z, and cassava 12%. Soil fertility is often low, but yields are main-
tained by the free supply of fertilizers in the first three years. There-
after, yields tend to decline unless settlers have cash and can buy ferti-
lizers. After three or four years on site most settlers are faced with
developing their additional 0.75 ha of reserve land, but without draft power,
have insufficient labor to do this.
2.13      Settlers receiving cattle under the IFAD project quickly train them
for use as draft power and transportation. In addition, all farmers gather
the manure, and many compost it with crop residues. The manure is usually
distributed on the houselot garden where crop yields are higher, though
several farmers carry it to their 1.0 ha food crop fields and drop it into
planting holes.
2.14      During project preparation, it was felt that once cattle became
available, farmers may grow food crops on all their Lands. It is unlikely
though that cattle will be used for cultivating the more distant 0.75 ha of
reserve land, nor will manure be carried there in any quantity. The cattle
will considerably speed up land preparation of the houselot garden and the
field area, thus enabling more timely planting of food crops and freeing up
labor which can be devoted to clearing and farming the reserve land. As the
0.75 ha reserve land is progressively cleared, cropping will most likely be
based on the graduaL planting of perennial cash crops such as rubber, coconuts
or coffee, intercropped in the early years with rice or maize.
2.15      Feed for the cattle is rarely a problem during the early years of a
settlement. There is sufficient native grass which can be cut and carried by
the family, and invariably the cow is tethered under shelter to enhance its
handling ability and facilitate manure collection. Further, since the farmers
must return the first two calves (para. 1.10 c), feed requirements stay fairly
static until the herd grows, when forage will become sparser. To address feed
requirements, farmers under the first project have begun planting fodder
species (para. 1.12).
2.16      Initially, forage is planted mostly on pathways, boundaries and on
bunds within the houselot garden. Some farmers have begun to intercrop tall



- 10 -
grass species or Lamtoro in their food crop areas, and during project prepara-
tion it was thought that an arable system including a forage rotation was a
feasible objective for project farmers. A forage/food crop rotation, common
in temperate farming, is unlikely to evolve however unless research can suc-
cessfully demonstrate the viability and sustainability of such a system.
2.17      Although research is proceeding (para. 2.18), there is as yet no
sound basis for promoting such a cropping system as the basis for the proposed
project. Farm development is still viable, however, and most farmers will
plant a permanent forage area of Lamtoro and Setaria, chosen from land less
suitable for food crops, probably in the 1.0 ha field area. Their reserve
land is usually too distant to devote to forage for daily cutting and carry-
ing. In addition, key farmers will be encouraged to plant permanent terraces
of forage in sloping food crop areas as a soiL conservation measure. At full
development, most farmers are likely to maintain a pair of adult stock and
their calves (about three animal units), and will need a forage area of about
0.25 ha to sustain them in addition to native grasses and crop residues.
Research into Cattle and Upland Arable Farming
2.13      The Bogor Research Institute for Food Crops (BORIF, formerly known
as CRIA) is responsible for food crop and food crop farming systems
research. In collaboration with the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI), BORIF has demonstrated the productivity achievable on typical trans-
migrant arable uplands when adequate animal draft power, equipment, agricul-
tural inputs and extension are made available. With UNDP/FAO support (Project
No. INS/78/006) applied research is being conducted in South Sumatra on
adapting the BORIF farming systems to lower input levels and multi-cropping
technologies that involve less risk in the event of low rainfall. This
approach emphasizes soil conservation practices and the use of animal manures
and mulches, while optimizing crop production and fully using available family
labor. In addition, BORIF, with USAID assistance, is carrying out upland
foodcrop farm systems research to stabilize cropping on transmigrant farms
near Sitiung, West Sumatra. Here, Lamtoro has been contour planted and
coppiced in order to develop arable-cropped bench terraces. The role of about
25 leguminous covers and other forage species in the build-up and maintenance
of humus in low fertility podzolic soils is also being studied.
Credit Systems
2.19      The IFAD Project Credit Arrangements.  Under the IFAD project,
farmers receiving cows are required to enter into two contracts:
(a) with the project, to return two 18-month old calves; and
(b) with the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), which opens an account in the
name of each farmer, charging the farmers with the contract price of
a delivered cow. Farmers receiving their heifer offspring are
charged their local market value. Both are charged 6% p.a. on the
debt outstanding.



- 11 -
2.20      So that there are enough buLls to service the cows, every tenth
farmer (chosen as the most progressive farmers) receives a bull in addition to
a cow. Such farmers must return three calves, in recognition of the greater
debt incurred.
2.21      Cattle distribution started in 1981, and no farmer accounts are yet
near closing, so there is no real measure yet of credit system performance.
The farmer's account wilL be credited with the local market value of the two
offspring at the time when each is returned. If their value exceeds the debt,
the farmer is to receive the cash baLance. If their value does not settle
that debt, the difference is to be written off. The project's financing
agreement (June 6, 1980) is not specific about the source of funds for paying
cash balances to farmers, though it does specify that if the settler's debt
exceeds the offspring vaLue, the balance will be borne by GOI. The role of
BRI is strictly that of a channeling bank-it uses none of its own funds, and
bears no risks. At appraisal it was found that coordination between the IFAD
project and BRI was inadequate, and less than 10% of farmers who received cows
and signed project agreements also signed a BRI credit agreement.
Nevertheless, over the six months following the appraisal BR.I was able to
increase the number of :trmers with signed credit agreements to about 40Z, and
is actively correcting the deficit.
Credit in the Proposed Smallholder Cattle Project
2.22      Options Considered for the Proposed Cattle Project.  Possible credit
arrangements examined at appraisal included:
(a)  a "Sumba" (in-kind) credit system, traditional in many cattle
transactions in Indonesia, whereby a farmer receives a cow, pays
back two calves, and his debt is cleared. No cash is involved.
This option was consideryVwith and without BRI involvement,
although GOI regulations-   require that wherever foreign funds are
applied to credit items, whether recovered in cash or in kind, the
funds must be administered by a government bank, such as BRI, and
accounted for in financial terms;
(b)  moving immediately to a commercial credit program executed by BRI.
BRI does not have coverage in the distribution areas and does not
show any interest in doing so at present; and
(c)  having Cooperatives (KUDs) handle credit.  In the ADB-supported
second Kalimantan cattle project the RUDs will handle redistribution
of first generation offspring and credit recovery.  In Sumatra,
however, there are few KUDs at present, and they do not yet have
capacity to handle credit.
101 Ministry of Finance Decree No. 395 which defines the procedures and
administration of foreign loans.



- 12 -
2.23      GOI's objective is to establish a credit arrangement both practical
in the short run (considering the absence of any credit system involving
smaLlholders in the project communities at present) and supportive of the
longer-term goal of moving toward monetary cattle credit operations when
farmers and cooperative organizations become creditworthy. To this end, a
combination of the above options will be used in the project. Credit
operations will start with a simple in-kind system to be replaced with KUDs
handling credit transactions, with funds borrowed from BRI, when and where
such KUDs are able to take on those tasks. BRI will be involved from the
outset as a channeling bank for credit funds and holder of smallholder
repayment obligations. Farmers receiving the initial cattle will return
offspring to the project as payment, but no cash payments will be made. For
subsequent generations, if creditworthy Cooperatives exist, they will borrow
funds from BRI to purchase the offspring from DGLS and distribute them to
members, and will handle credit recovery internally. If no well-established
Cooperative exists but a BRI branch office does, the BRI will lend directly to
farmers to purchase project cattle from DGLS. If neither a BRI branch office
nor a creditworthy Cooperative exists, credit arrangements will continue as
described for the initial distribution, until the second generation
distribution is complete.
2.24      Under the IFAD project, no cut-off point for DGLS intervention in
cattle distribution was determined. About 80Z of all farmers in the community
will have benefited after the second generation heifers are redistributed.
Under the proposed project DGLS intervention in credit recovery would end when
a creditworthy KUD was capable of taking over credit recovery, or a BRI branch
office could take over these duties. If neither a suitable KUD nor BRI branch
office existed in the area, DGLS intervention would end when the second
generation distribution of cattle is repaid in kind to DGLS. BRI and DGLS
coordination in signing farmer-project and farmer-BRI agreements will be
improved in the second project. DGLS will give BRI advance notice of dates of
cattle distribution and names of recipients. Farmers will sign agreements
with BRI and DGLS on the day they receive cattle.
2.25      Credit arrangements reflecting this are discussed in detail in
paras. 4.07-4.11. These flexible arrangements are a step towards introducing
low-income farmers to credit systems and monetizing cattle transactions and
are a workable approach to a difficult long-standing problem in Indonesia.
Nevertheless, because of the many variables involved, the credit arrangements
will be reviewed with the Bank each year (paras. 4.10 and 6.01 f).
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.01      The major objectives of the project are to supply cattle to about
76,500 smallholder farmers, mostly transmigrants, during a five-year implemen-
tation program, and through further distribution of offspring to another
55,000 smallholder farmers within the five years and beyond this period to
another 106,000 farmers, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to about



- 13 -
237,000. The cattle would be used as draft animals, would provide manure to
sustain crop production, and would raise farm incomes. The cattle would be
distributed to farm communities in six provinces in Sumatra (Riau, Jambi,
South Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu, Lampung) and three Sulawesi provinces
(South, Central, and Southeast Sulawesi). These provinces have been selected
because of their importance in the Repelita III and IV transmigration program
and the largi19umbers of smallholder farmers there who need draft power for
cultivation.     The cattle would be Bali and Madura breed cattle drawn from
South Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara and East Java (Madura) provinces.
3.02      The main components of the project would be:
(a) procurement of about 76,500 selected breeding heifers and about
7,600 bulls and their transportation by private cattle traders to
participating provinces in Sumatra and Sulawesi;
(b) distribution of heifers to about 76,500 smallholder farmers
including transmigrants, local participants in transmigration
schemes, and local faimers near transmigrant communities. Each
participating farmer will receive one heifer, and one in every ten
of such farmers will also receive a bull;
Cc) distribution to about 55,000 smallhoLder farmers of about 55,000
heifer and 5,500 bull calves returned to the project consisting of
first and second generation offspring of cattle supplied undy,the
project, and from cattle distributed under the IFAD project;-
Cd) construction of six cattle-holding and quarantine facilities and
upgrading of another four facilities, and provision of about 105
vehicles, about 340 motorcycles and miscellaneous veterinary, labor-
atory and office equipment;
Ce) a forage seed production program by about 700 smallholder farmers in
Nusa Tenggara, and a forage production program to serve about
237,000 small farmers in Sumatra and Sulawesi receiving cattle and
their redistributed offspring;
(f) improvement of veterinary services, and provision of about 150
project field staff teams (SATCAS) to provide cattle and forage
extension services;
(g) investigation of the causative agent, transmission and control of
Jembrana disease of Bali cattle, through the Bali Cattle Disease
Investigation Unit (BCDIU);
ll/ Provinces in Kalimantan, also a key target area for transmigration,
receive assistance for cattle development from ADB.
12/ After the five-year implementation period, another 106,000 heifer calves
and about 11,000 bulls will be distributed.



- 14 -
(h) technical assistance for Ci) project implementation; (ii) forage
production; (iii) disease investigation and control; (iv) monitoring
and evaluation; and (v) cooperative development; and
(i) training in (i) management skills; (ii) extension techniques; (iii)
forage and cropping systems; (iv) cattle marketing; (v) cattle
fattening; (vi) cooperative management and administration; and (vii)
disease eradication and vaccine production.
Detailed Components
3.03      Cattle Procurement.  Qualified cattle traders will procure cattle
between A l and July each year in South Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara or East Java
(Hadura).-   Each contract will normally procure 1,100 head (1,000 heifers
and 100 bulls) and traders will assemble the cattle into one, or a maximum of
three, holding grounds acceptable to DGLS. Each contract will supply two viL-
lages in distribution areas with a "cattle drop" of 550 head each. Project
staff will inspect the cattle and reject any (a) not in good condition, or
showing signs of disease; (b) not conforming to a minimum specification of 102
cm height at withers for heifers (but 104 cm height at withers for Nusa
Tenggara) and 110 cm height at withers for bulls and (c) not conforming to the
Bali or Madura breeds.
3.04      Traders will (a) firebrand cattle accepted by the project,
(b) ensure that the selected cattle are accompanied during shipping and
transportation by a trained animal health worker whose experience is accept-
able to DGLS and Cc) arrange shipping which provides the following minimum
specifications per head of stock, with a minimum reserve of three days supply
of feed and water in excess of expected shipping times:
Ci) space - 0.75 x 1.5 x 1.75 m with adequate pens or dividers;
(ii)  feed/day - 2 kg concentrate, and 6 kg hay or 30 kg green grass;
Ciii) water/day - 30 liters; and
(iv)  adequate forced ventilation and loading/unloading ramps.
3.05      About three weeks before ships are scheduled to arrive, traders will
move the selected cattle to holding grounds designated by DGLS as quarantine
stations. The cattle will be inspected before going in, when coming out for
loading onto shipping, and any in poor condition will be rejected. The mini-
mum quarantine period will be two weeks. Traders will be responsible (a) to
make up contracted numbers by replacing rejected stock, and (b) to provide
13/  Provided East Java is declared free of foot-and-mouth disease by the
Director General of Livestock Services. Current restrictions are
expected to be lifted in late 1986. If none are available from Madura,
all will come from the other two areas.



- 15 -
feed, water and medicines while the cattle are quarantined. An assurance that
GOI will adopt the measures set out in para. 3.04 (b) and (c) was obtained
from COI (para. 6.01 a).
3.06      The traders will supervise cattle during shipping and unloading and
deliver them, by truck, individually to farmers selected by the project in
distribution areas (para. 3.01). Each of the cattle will be inspected by
project staff and traders on the farms seven days after arrival. Contract
completion payments will be made on the number of stock accepted at that time.
3.07      Selection of Beneficiaries;  The following procedures will be used
to select beneficiaries:
(a)  the Project Manager and Ministry of Transmigration staff will deter-
mine the number of cattle to be distributed by province;
(b)  in each province, the Project Management Units (PKUs) and the
Provincial Governor's staff will select kabupatens (districts) and
kecamatans (subdistricts) for the agreed number of cattle;
(c)  the heads of the kabupatens and kecamAtans and the PMUs will select
recipient villages; and
(d)  farmers will be selected by the lurahs (village heads) and the
SATGAS (project field staff).
3.08      Communities will be selected which are either (a) in transmigration
sites still under development by the Ministry of Transmigration, but in which
most farmers have been settled for at least one year; or (b) older transmigra-
tion sites where farmers still need draft power to be able to extend cultiva-
tion. Communities will be selected which have about 1,500 farmers located in
a radius of about five miles. Initially, one farmer in three will be selected
to receive one heifer from the standard cattle drop of 500 heifers. Of these
farmers, one in ten will also receive a bull.
3.09      About 90% of the cattle supplied will be distributed to official
participants in transmigration schemes. The balance of each cattle drop (10Z)
will be distributed to local farmers and otherwise unassisted spontaneous
migrants on the peripheries of the official transmigration schemes.
3.10      Each participating farmer will have at least 1 ha of land but not
more than 5 ha of land. He must be willing to (a) build a small stable using
local materials; (b) plant at least 0.25 ha of forage; (c) participate
regularly in farmer group discussions with SATGAS extension staff; and
(d) sign agreements to repay the cost of the cattle by returning calves to
DGLS (paras. 3.12-3.14).
3.11      One farmer in every 10 receiving heifers will also be provided with
a bull, and will agree to make available its services to other farmers
nearby. The farmers to receive bulls will be selected as the most progres-
sive, and will serve as key farmers for the SATGAS extension services.



- 16 -
3.12      Credit Arrangements.  Recipients of a heifer will pay back to the
project two calves of minimum 18 months age, in good condition, and not less
than 102 cm height at withers, within six years of receiving it. Recipients
of a cow and a bull wiLl pay back three such calves within seven years. Each
farmer will sign a contract with the PMU, to this effect. In the event of
default, the project may repossess the cow. Each farmer wiLl also sign a
credit agreement with BRI, agreeing to settle a debt equal to the cost of the
cattle supplied. The value of the calves returned to the project will be
credited to the farmer's account at 50% of the value of the debt. These
credit arrangements will be used for cattle supplied initially, and for the
first and second generation heifers and buLls that are redistributed to other
farmers if no creditworthy Cooperative or BRI branch office exists in the
project site. Arrangements for handling credit through KUDs and BRI branch
offices are discussed in paras. 4.07 to 4.11.
3.13      On average, half of the calves returned to the project to repay
credit will be males. Excepting those selected for redistribution as bulls
(about 10), they will be sold by the project to traders at Local market
prices for resale for fattening and slaughter, or for use as draft animals,
mostly for transport. It is expected that about 10Z of heifers returned to
the project will be culled, so that herd quality gradually improves through
continued selection. The PHU will identify recipients for redistributed
cattle following the procedures and criteria established in paras. 3.07-3.11.
Calves to be redistributed will be identified by the PMU, which will (a)
arrange for their delivery and (b) firebrand them with the project insignia
and a project-specific number.
3.14      In the event of infertility, the PMU will replace the cows concerned
at no cost to the farmer. Should death occur, debts may be written off
provided the farmer informs the SATGAS within five days of the animal (a)
becoming sick, (b) sustaining an accident, or (c) dying unexpectedly. The
SATGAS, in consultation with the village chiefs, may authorize BRI to write-
off the debt under such circumstances unless negligence is proven. Peer
pressure -n the communities is proving a strong deterrent to preventing unex-
plained losses of cattle supplied under the IFAD project.
3.15      Civil Works.  Holding grounds, which can be used as temporary DGLS
quarantine stations, are necessary to facilitate cattle procurement. The
works will be used also by traders and DGLS for the slaughter trade or for
supplying breeding cattle for other GOI programs. The facilities constructed
under the IFAD project will be used, together with a small number of addi-
tional holding grounds to serve (a) provinces newly included in the project,
and (b) the increased volume of cattle to be procured (Annex 1, Table 5).
3.16      In addition to cattle transfer facilities, the project will con-
struct two sterile laboratories and four isolation stables at BCDIU, and one
seed processing center in Lombok (Annex 1, Table 5). SATCAS field staff will
rent housing, and will use office space in the rural extension centers to be
constructed under the proposed Third National Agricultural Extension Project,
currently under Bank appraisal.



- 17 -
3.17      Vehicles and Equipment.  Each SATCAS will be provided with two
"dirt" specification motorcycles. Including a small number of additional
vehicles for project management staff, and replacements for old vehicles, the
project will procure, mostly for field services, about 105 four-wheel
vehicles, and 340 motorcycles. About 10 tractors will be provided for use in
the holding grounds (Annex 1, Table 6).
3.18      Equipment for project implementation, as detailed in Annex 1,
Table 7, will include veterinary and laboratory equipment, office and training
equipment, tools and fencing for forage nurseries, plow tips for key farmers,
and side band radios for the SATGAS and veterinary services.
3.19      Forage Program.  A package of forage seeds, lime, fertilizer, pesti-
cide, and innoculum will be provided for each village receiving cattle
(Annex 5).  The SATCAS will establish a farmer group nursery in these villages
under the leadership of the key farmers (para. 3.11).  The group nurseries
will be reseeded, limed and fertilized each year by the SATGAS with farmer
labor, and maintained until first and second generation offspring have been
redistributed.  All farmers will therefore have a ready source of forage
planting material.  A total of 260 group nurseries will be established, and
this is expected to lead after about 10-15 years to a total forage area of
about 60,000 ha planted by farmers. Key farmers will also receive a plow
tip. These farmers will be encouraged to progressively develop bench terraces
by contour planting of perennial forage strips (Lamtoro seedlings and Setaria
grass splits from group nurseries) so as to trap eroding soil.
3.20      About 700 farmers in Nusa Tenggara will be contracted to grow the
forage seeds needed for (a) the farmer group nurseries and (b) the legume/
terracing demonstrations conducted by key farmers in the cattle distribution
areas. Participating seed producers will be supplied with a package of seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides, the cost of which will be defrayed by returning
quality seed to the project at agreed prices for three years.
3.21      Animal Health and Extension Services.  To provide adequate extension
services and front line veterinary help, about 150 SATGAS teams will be
assigned at the ratio of one to each 500 farmers. Each SATGAS team will con-
sist of one university graduate in animal production and two agricultural high
school graduates. They will be trained in agricultural extension techniques
(para. 3.24) and coordinate their activities with other Ministry of
Agriculture extension services through local Rural Extension Centers (RECs)
(para. 4.06). Veterinarians will be stationed at RECs under the proposed
Third National Agricultural Extension Project and one will be available to
serve every four SATGAS teams. The project will recruit in totaL about 150
university graduates and 300 agricultural high school graduates. One in four
SATGAS teams will be provided with mobile scales to keep track of cattle
weights, and to assist farmers in marketing surplus stock.
3.22      Bali Cattle Disease Investigations.  The BCDIU will continue to
investigate Jembrana disease, and any other diseases specific to Bali breed
cattle. Activities will include isolation, purification and identification of
the Jembrana disease agent, determination of latent carriers, development and
standardization of serological testing, vaccine development, and vector,



- 18 -
pathogenic and epidemiological studies.  The BCDIU staff will be expanded by
two veterinarians, an entomologist, and a biochemist. Four additional
laboratory assistants and six animal supervisors will be engaged. Technical
assistance (para. 3.23) and training (para. 3.24) will be provided to assist
these highly specialized BCDIU activities.
3.23      Technical Assistance.  A total of about 370 man-months (/rm) of
local consultant servicem will provide technical assistance, supported by
about 130 m/m of foreign services.  Only two foreign specialists (a cattle
development advisor and a disease scientist) will be resident (72 m/m), the
other foreign services (56 m/m) will visit Indonesia from time to time to
assisc project staff and local consultants. The services are summarized in
Annex 1, Table 9 and detailed in Annex 7.
3.24      Training.  A comprehensive training program will upgrade project
staff management, administration, technical and extension skills. Training of
key farmers will also be given, and cooperative development training for
SATCAS, farmers, and district level cooperative department staff will be
provided. Annex 1, Table 10 summarizes the training program, which is
detailed in Annex 7.
Status of Preparation
3.25      The project is a second phase of the IFAD project (paras. 1.09 to
1.12). The existing management and organization will implement the proposed
project. Cattle specifications, purchase procedures, and beneficiary selec-
tion criteria will be the same as those used in the IFAD project. Minimum
space, feed and water to be provided during shipping by traders (para. 3.04)
have been agreed with GOI. The sites for holding grounds (which will also be
used for quarantine) have been identified and acquired by DGLS. Standard
specifications and simple designs used for civil works in the first project
will be used for construction.
Implementation Schedule
3.26      The IFAD project is expected to be completed in March 1986.  The
available balance of the IFAD Loan 35-ID will permit the purchase of about
9,000 head of cattle in mid-1985, but the project has the capacity to handle
more if finance were available. To maintain the project's momentum, up to
3,500 head procured in mid-1985 will be retroactively financed and eligible
for disbursements from the proposed Bank and IFAD loans. Construction of
civil works and equipment procurement wilL start in April 1986. The project
is expected to be completed in March 1991, although redistribution of
offspring, forage programs, and extension services will be continued by DCLS
for about 15 years thereafter. Likely future budget requirements for this are
detailed in Annex 1, Table 11. An assurance was obtained that DGLS will
maintain the project organization at least until the first generation cattle
distribution is completed, projected to be by the year 1997 (para. 6.01 b).
Thereafter, the project organization will be absorbed into DGLS and services
supporting continued cattle distribution will be provided by DGLS.



- 19 -
Cost Estimates
3.27      Total project costs are estimated at US$66.4 million (including
taxes of US$2.2 million) of which US$14.7 million (or 22Z) will be foreign
exchange. Project costs are estimated in July 1985 prices and at an exchange
rate conversion of Rp 1,100 - US$1.00. Unit rates for cattle, civil works,
goods and services are based on recent actual expenditures in the IFAD cattle
project. Project costs include US$1.3 million for cattle purchased in mid-
1985, which will be retroactively financed (para. 3.26). Consultant costs
total some US$4.2 million (including contingencies and expected price
increases). A 10% alLowance for physical contingencies has been included for
all capital expenditures. Physical contingencies total US$4.0 million or 8%
of base costs. Expected price increases (US$15.2 million) total about 30% of
base costs plus physical contingencies and were estimated on the basis of the
following inflation rates. Domestic inflation is projected at 8Z from 1985/86
to 1990/91. International inflation is projected at 5% for 1985/86, 7.5% for
1986/87, and 8X from 1987/88 to 1990/91. Project costs are summarized in
Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 1, Table 1.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUNKAIY
Z of
2      total
Rp million                 US$ KilLion         Foreign   base
Local    Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign  Total  exchange  costs
Cattle  -                 27,752.7   4,897.5  32,650.2    25.2      4.5    29.7       15       63
Forage Development         1,654.9     832.7   2,487.6      1.5     0.8      2.3      33         5
Cattle Transfer
Facilities                 678.3   1,114.7   1,793.0      0.6     1.0      1.6      62        4
Veterinary Services
and Disease Investi-
gations                  2,393.8   1,482.1   3,875.9      2.2     1.3      3.5      38         7
Technical Assistance       1,789.8   1,704.6   3,494.4      1.6     1.5      3.1      49         7
Training                     965.3        6.5     971.8     0.9     0.0      0.9       1        2
Project Administration     4,694.0   1,750.6   6,444.6      4.3     1.6      5.9      27       12
Technical Assistance for
Project Preparation         22.0     198.0      220.0     0.0     0.2      0.2      90        0
Base Cost                 39,950.8  11,986.7 51,937.5    36.3    10.9    47.2         23      100
Physical Contingencies     3,223.2   1,138.6   4,361.8      2.9     1.1     4.0       26        8
Expected Price
Increases               13,707.1   3,019.5  16,726.6    12.5      2.7    15.2       18       33
Total Project
ost la                  56,881.1  16,144.8  73,025.9    51.7    14.7    66.4        22      141
ia  Inclu-ing taxes of US$1.3 miLlion on cattle, US$0.1 million on cattle transfer facilities,
US$0.2 million on veterinary services and disease investigations, US$0.4 million on
technical assistance, and US$0.2 million on project administration.
Financing
3.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent will finance 51S
of total project costs excluding US$2.2 million of taxes and US$1.4 million
for reserve procurement of vehicles. IFAD will provide cofinancing of
SDB 11.6 million, equivalent to US$12 million. The Bank will act as
Cooperating Institution for the IFAD loan and will supervise the project on
IFAD's behalf. The Bank and IFAD loans are equivalent to the foreign exchange
costs of the project, except vehicles, and about 592 of the local costs (Table
3.2). ODI will finance the remaining costs.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: FrNANCING
Local           Foreign        Total          Z
US$ million
Bank                22.3              9.7           32.0          48
IFAD                 8.3              3.7           12.0          18
GOI                 21.1              1.3           22.4          34
Total             51.7             14.7          66.4          100
Procurement 14/
3.29      Cattle.  Bali and Madura breed cattle (US$43.1 million) a"ailable
only in Indonesia, will be procured through about 75 contracts, each for about
1,000 heifers and 100 bulls. Qualified Indonesian cattle traders will be
selected following local competitive bidding procedures (LCR) acceptabLe to
the Bank.
3.30      Civil Works.  The holding ground facilities (US$1.0 million), BCDfU
special buildings (US$0.4 miLlion), and PHU facilities (US$0.l million), are
small and widely separated geographically, though works will be grouped as far
as possible into annual contracts by province. About 60 small contracts for
civil works are unlikely to attract foreign bidders and will be procured
through LCB.
3.31      Equipment and Supplies. Veterinary and laboratory equipment (US$1.0
million), weighbridges (US$0.5 miLlion), office furniture (US$0.6 million),
office equipment (US$1.6 million), and plows and farm tools (US$0.4 miLlion)
will be procured in several small lots over a five year period, following
local competitive bidding.
3.32      Laboratory animals, including cattle, small animals, and rodents
(US$0.4 million) will be purchased in small lots as needed for disease inves-
tigations at SCDIU. They will be obtained by direct purchase at local market
prices throughout project implementation. This is necessary since the animals
must come from specific sites and backgrounds, including cattle suffering from
sporadic Jembrana disease outbreaks.
3.33      Fertilizers and pesticides (US$0.3 million) will be purchased
directly from local manufacturers at GOI-determined prices which are uniform
14/ Costs are total costs including physical contingencies and expected price
increases. A detailed list of civil works and goods is given in Annex 1,
Tables 5 to 8.



- 22 -
nationwide, and are lower than import parity prices. Forage seeds (US$0.3
million) are grown in Lombok by seed producers contracted under the IFAD
project, and are purchased directly at prices negotiated between DCLS and the
farmers.
3.34      Technical Assistance and Training.  Local consultants will be
contracted for technical assistance to the PMO, BCDIU, and for cooperative
development as listed in Annes 1, Table 9, through local firms. A local firm
will be contracted for monitoring and evaluation and the contract will include
computer services and hiring of short-term seasonal field survey staff.
Excepting the new posts of seeds and forage specialists, GOI wishes to con-
tract the individuals who were engaged in the IFAD project so as to ensure
continuity, and this is acceptable to the Bank.
3.35      Specialist expatriate advisors for the PMO, BCDIU, and for training
in cooperative development will be contracted individually and through
firms. GOI wishes to continue the services of the two resident advisors,
together with the visiting monitoring and evaluation (M&E) specialist employed
under the IFAD project. Qualified individuals will be contracted also for
visiting services in forage and vaccine production. The Bank has no objection
to these arrangements.
3.36      Training will be conducted by PMO staff, DGLS, the Agency for
Agricultural Education Training and Extension, and a contracted private or
university management institute in accordance with a program reviewed and
agreed with the Bank. All consultants will be employed on a schedule agreed
with the Bank, and engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines and terms of
reference agreed with the Bank (para. 6.01 c).
3.37      Vehicles and Motorcycles. Vehicles and motorcycles are locally
assembled, and GOI prohibits their importation. All vehicles and motorcycles
for GOI use are centrally procured through annuaLly negotiated contracts with
a small number of assemblers. These items (US$1.4 million) will be regarded
as reserve procurement.
3.38      In the recent past, GOI has restricted purchase of vehicles and
motorcycles for agricultural staff. Project success is however heavily depen-
dent upon livestock extension and health services provided by sufficiently
mobile project staff in the frequently remote settlements. Therefore, an
assurance was obtained that GOI will procure vehicles and motorcycles accord-
ing to an annual schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.01 d). Although
the Bank regards vehicles as reserve procurement (and external finAncing has
been reduced by the cost of such vehicles) because of the component's import-
ance, IFAD has agreed to disburse 80Z against the cost of such vehicles (para.
3.40). Government will submit to IFAD by September 30 of each project year a
detailed procurement schedule for project vehicles and motorcycles. Table 3.3
summarizes procurement arrangements under the project.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENRT /a
Category                                LCB         Other       N.A.       Total
(US$ million)
Cattle                                  43.1          -           -        43.1
(27.0)                             (27.0)
Civil works                              1.5           -          -          1.5
(0.7)                              (0.7)
Consultants                                          4.2          -         4.2
(3.6)                 (3.6)
Training                                              1.1         -         1.1
Vehicles and motorcycles                  -           1.4         -          1.4
Veterinary and laboratory equipment
and weighbridges                       1.5          -           -         1.5
(0.7)                              (0.7)
Office furniture and equipment,
farm tools, and plows                  2.6          -           -         2.6
Laboratory animals, fertilizers,
pesticides and forage seeds            -          1.0          -         1.0
Administration                            -           -          9.8        9.8
Technical Assistance for
project preparation                     -          0.2          -         0.2
Total                                 48.7         7.9         9.8       66.4
(28.4)       (3.6)                 (32.0)
/a   Costs are total costs including physical contingencies and expected price
increases. Figures in parentheses are Bank loan amounts which include a
prorated share of the unallocated funds shown in Annez 1, Table 3. The
IFAD loan allocation is presented in Annez 1, Table 3.
3.39      Review of Procurement. The Bank, also acting for IFAD as
Cooperating Institution, will review contract awards through its Resident
Staff, Indonesia. The Dank will review prior to award all cattle contracts
(about 15 annually) normally worth about US$0.6 million equivalent each,
including cattle procured in mid-1985 and eligible for retroactive financing
(para. 3.26). Civil works and equipment contracts worth more than US$0.2 mil-



- 24 -
lion equivalent each will be subject to prior Bank review. Below this size,
contracts will be reviewed by the Bank after award, on a sample basis. All
consultant contracts will be reviewed prior to award. The Bank will review,
prior to award, contracts amounting to about 70Z of total procurement value.
Disbursements
3.40      Bank and IFAD loan funds will be disbursed as set out in
Table 3.4. Disbursements will be made against contracts, except for training
costs (US$1.1 million) which will be disbursed against statements of expendi-
ture (SOE) as shown in Annex 8. The Bank wiLl process all disbursement docu-
mentation and will notify IFAD when and how much to disburse to GOI from the
IFAD loan. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is presented in Annex 1,
Table 3. Disbursements are expected to follow closely the profile achieved by
the IFAD project (Annex 1, Table 4), faster than the standard profile for
Indonesian agriculturaL projects, sinice the project will be a second phase and
its management and operations are already well developed. Loan closing would
be by March 31, 1992.
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursement share
Category                           Disbursement rate (Z)    Bank         IFAD
-= (%) -Z
cattle                              85% of total costs          65         20
Civil Works                         60% of total costs         60           -
Veterinary and laboratory
equipment, and Weighbridges       60% of total costs         60           -
Office Furniture and Equip-
ment, Farm Tools and Plows        50Z of total costs           -         50
Vehicles and Motorcycles            80% of costs                 -         80
Consultants                         100% of costs              100          -
Training                            100Z of costs               -         100
Accounts and Audits
3.41      Detailed separate accounts are kept by DGLS and the PMO for each
budget item by year. Project accounts are subject to two audits: (a) by the
Inspector General of the Ministry of Agriculture and (b) by the State



- 25 -
Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both auditors
has been found to be generally satisfactory on Bank-assist!ed projects and the
IFAD project. Assurances were obtained that adequate and separate accounts
will be maintained; all contracts, orders and receipts will be kept for at
least one year after the closing of the loan; and independent audits of each
year's accounts will be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close
of each GOI fiscal year. In addition, a separate audit opinion of all SOEs
submitted for withdrawal of Loan proceeds will be provided (para. 6.01 e).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General Organization
4.01      The project will be coordinated by an Interdepartmental Steering
Commztt pwhich supervises aLl foreign assisted projects in the livestock
sector._   This committee is chaired by the Director of the Directorate
General of Livestock Services (DGLS) and has two major functions: (a) to set
policy guidelines and (b) to review project progress.  The committee meets
once a month. At the provincial level, a similar interdepartmental committee
coordinates project implementation activities under the leadership of the
Governor. There is also a monthly meeting of a Technical Steering Comm-ittee
which1cqnsists of the DGLS Secretary, and the six heads of DGLS Director-
ates.-'  The organizational structure of DGLS and the Ministry of Agriculture
is shown in Chart 1.
4.02      Project management consists of (a) a central Project Management
Office (PHO) headed by the Project Director in Jakarta, (b) Project Management
Units (PMUs) at the Provincial leveL and (c) field task forces (SATGAS) at the
kabupaten and kecamatan field level. The project organization is depicted in
Chart 2.
Project Management Office
4.03      The project functions, at central level, as a discrete unit within
the DGLS. The Project Director reports directly to the Director General,
though maintaining a close liaison on all matters with the Technical Steering
Committee. The PMO consists of some 50 professional, subprofessional and
support staff who are assigned to one of three divisions, the Planning,
General Affairs and Finance, and the Technical and Credit Divisions. Of
15/ Members of the committee include representatives from: the Ministries of
Finance, Trade, Transmigration, Cooperatives, Foreign Affairs,
Agriculture and Home Affairs; the Cabinet Secretariat, BAPPENAS, Bank
Indonesia (BI); and Bank Rakyat Indonesia.
16/ Livestock Production; Livestock Economics and Processing; Livestock
Distribution and Development; Animal Health; Livestock Extension
Services; and Livestock Planning.



- 26 -
these, 11 are university graduates and around 25 are high school graduates.
All staff are permanent civil servants assigned to work on the project, and
will have no difficulty being reabsorbed into DCLS after project activity
ends.
4.04      Some reorganization of the PMO and additional staff are required to
meet the expanded operational demands of the proposed smallholder cattle proj-
ect. To assist the Project Director, two assistants to the Project Director
will be appointed.   The staffing of the PMO will also be increased in April
1986 from a present level of 50 to 68. The PMO will be reorganized also, into
four divisions (see Chart 1): Administration and Finance; Technical and
Credit; Procurement and Distribution; and Planning, with the following respon-
sibilities:
(a) Administration and Finance Division - routine project administra-
tion, personnel and supplies, budget preparation, financing, procurement of
material and equipment, disbursement and budget verification, and improving
work procedures.
(b) Technical and Credit Division - arranging training for project
staff, particularly SATGAS; training key farmers; extension services; tech-
nical supervision of animal health, disease control and cattle production;
cattle credit supervision; selecting the offspring to be repaid by farmers;
selecting new beneficiary farmers and keeping cattle and credit records.
(c) Procurement and Distribution Division - procurement from the supply-
ing areas and distribution of cattle to farmers in Sumatra and Sulawesi.
(d) Planning Division - planning and budgets; collecting, preparing and
formulating project information and statistical data; and monitoring and
evaluating physical and financial project performance and socioeconomic
impact.
Project Management Units
4.05      A PMU has been set up in each of the cattle procurement and cattle
distribution provinces. PMUs are staffed by provincial livestock service
staff assigned to work on the project under the technical and operational
guidance of the Project Director. As with the PH0, these staff will be
reassigned within DCLS after project activity ends. The roLe of the PMU is to
implement all project activities including supervising the procurement and
distribution of cattle contracted by the PM0; development of forage; and
administration of the SATGAS. Each PMU, located in the provincial capital, is
subdivided into four sections: Administration and Finance, Cattle Procure-
ment, Cattle Distribution and Development, and Forage Development. The number
of PMUs will be increased from 9 to 12, with new units established in West
Sumatra, Central Sulawesi and Southeast Sulawesi.
Field Task Forces (SATGAS)
4.06      SATCAS teams will be assigned at field level in all areas where the
project distributes cattle and promotes forage development. In addition to



- 27 -
organizing project and credit activities, the SATGAS provide extension and
animal health services to project beneficiaries. The majority of the SATGAS
staff will be contract staff, but most are expected to become regular DGLS/
provincial extension and animal health service staff. There are few livestock
extension or veterinary staff at present in sites selected for transmigration,
and GOI regards the SATGAS as the forerunner of permanent extension services,
working out of rural extension centers (RECs) and coordinated by the Agency
for Agricultural Extension, Training and Education. Operationally, the SATGAS
report to the PHU chief. On a locaL level they coordinate closely through the
RECs with administrative and technical officials of the agricultural extension
services. In addition to implementing the project and providing extension to
the farmers, the SATGAS act as an effective reporting channel back to project
management. Four SATCAS teams will be supervised on animal health matters by
one veterinarian stationed at each REC. At a ratio of 1 SATGAS team to 500
farmers, the project will require a total of about 150 SATGAS teams. The two
SATGAS staff responsible for extension and animal health will become part of
the regular DGLS provincial services following project implementation. The
third member of each SATGAS team who handles beneficiary selection, credit
matters and cattle monitoring will be trained in cooperative management,
credit administration, and accounting to head the local Cooperative.
Credit Administration
4.07      Smallholders who receive the initial heifers procured from the
Eastern Islands will sign with BRI and the DGLS agreements that obligate them
to repay a debt equal to the contract cost of the heifer by returning to DGLS
within 6 years two calves of at least 18 months age, in good condition and of
either sex. The debt service value of such calves will be equal to 50Z of the
debt, so no cash transactions are involved in debt service. Key smallholders
who receive a bull and a heifer will repay their debt by returning three
calves to DGLS within 7 years under the same arrangements.
4.08      The offspring returned by these smallholders (the first generation)
will be separated into culled females and maLes and those cattle reserved for
redistribution. The culled animals will be sold by DGLS to traders at local
market prices (para. 3.13), and the revenues will be returned through BRI to
GOI. Credit arrangements for the cattle selected for redistribution will
depend upon the level of cooperative development in the particular commu-
nity. The proposed project has a component for training farmers and SATGAS
members in cooperative management, accounting, and credit administration. One
member of each SATCAS team is expected to head the Cooperative (KUD). If a
creditworthy Cooperative (evaluated by BRI to have sufficient financial and
administrative capacity to handle credit) has been established in the commu-
nity by the time of the distribution of the first generation of cattle, then
the KUD will be responsible for distributing animals, under the same guide-
lines for farmer selection as for the initial distribution. The KUD will
purchase the cattle from DGLS with a loan from SRI, at a cost of 50Z above
their local market value. The KUD will be responsible for internal credit
recovery. Returned offspring (the second generation) will be culled and sold
for cash to repay the debt to BRI, and the remaining cattle will be redistri-
buted to farmers who are still without cattle. Where a creditworthy KUD does
not yet exist, the DGLS will continue to distribute cattle under the



- 28 -
arrangements for the first distribution. Financing arrangements between BRI
and KUDs are presented in the Financing Agreement between GOI and BRI
(para. 4.11).
4.09      In the communities where the DGLS is handling the first generation
distribution, the returned offspring will again be divided into two groups,
those culled and sold to traders and those selected to be distributed to farm-
ers still awaiting their cattle. The distribution method will again depend
upon the level of cooperative development in the community. If a KUD is now
ready to handle cattle distribution and credit, as evaluated by BRI, the KUD
will purchase the cattle with a loan from BRI and distribute cattle as
described above. In a few locations, BRI may have branch offices or viLlage
units capable of lending directly to smallholders on commercial terms for
purchase of cattle from DGLS. If no satisfactory KUD exists but a BRI branch
office does, then the BRI will make available to smallholders commerciaL
credit to purchase the cattle from DGLS. If neither a KUD nor a BRIr branch
office is able to handle these functions, then the second generation cattle
will either be sold to traders, or continue to be distributed by DGLS.
4.10      These credit arrangements will be reviewed annually.  An
interministerial committee made up of members from the Ministry o.f Finance,
BRI, BI and DGLS will annually study the most appropriate wethods for provid-
ing credit and cooperative services to farmers receiving cattle under the
project and will furnish the results of this study te the Bank for comments by
the end of each year, commencing December 31, 1987. GOI will thereafter make
any necessary adjustments to credit and cooperative services arrangements
taking into account the Bank's comments on such studies. Assurances to this
effect were obtained from Government (para. 6.01 f).
4.11      The PMO will maintain a record of all cattle transactions, including
beneficiaries, cattle distributed, offspring returned, offspring sold by the
project, through either distribution of second generation heifers, or until
IUDs or BRI branch offices take uver credit administration. The PMO will
contract cattle purchase and distribution. Contractors will be paid from a
prefinancing account kept in BRI.  For the initial distribution and subsequent
redistribution handled by DCLS, the PMO will notify BRI in good time when
cattle distribution or redistribution will take place, and assist BRI in
organizing the signature of credit agreements with project beneficiaries. The
PHO will also notify BRI when calves are returned by each beneficiary. BRT
will act as a channeling agent for GOr prefinancing funds and credit adminie-
tration, and will receive a handling fee based on the value of credit
agreements signed with project beneficiaries. The signing of (a) a financing
agreement between GOI (represented by Bank Indonesia) and BRI and (b) a
subfinancing agreement between BRI and DGLS (representing the project), both
acceptable to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
6.02).
Animal Health Services
4.12      DGLS will maintain adequate veterinary services to support the
SATGAS in cattle distribution areas. The SATGAS, which will have supplies of
the most commonly used drugs and treatments, will provide front line services
for farmers. The SATGAS will notify the DGLS provincial veterinary services



- 29 -
for diagnosis and treatment of more serious cases. The DGLS veterinary ser-
vices will use the existing DICs to confirm notifiable disease outbreaks.
4.13      Investigations into Jembrana disease will be continued by the
BCDIU. The existing staff level will be expanded by two veterinarians in
addition to those assigned currently from the quarantine and provincial veter-
inary services. These veterinarians will carry out most of the field epide-
miological work, and would assist in virology, pathology, vector investiga-
tions and prophylactic and therapeutic measures. An entomologist will be
employed full time under the vector investigation program and a biochemist
will join the team after completing a one-year overseas fellowship in bio-
chemistry. With the increasing work load, four new laboratory assistants and
six animal caretakers will be employed by the BCDIU.
4.14      The BCDIU will continue to function within the organizational struc-
ture established under the IFAD project (Chart 3). After completion of the
proposed smaLlholder cattle project, the BCDIU will become responsible to
BAKITWAN for technical research aspects, but will be administratively and
financially responsible to the Bali DIC. In this way, by the end of the proj-
ect period, the BCDIU will be established as a specialist Bali cattle research
unit, and the DIC will have ready access to a wing which can provide special-
ist advice and carry out detailed special investigations into DIC's problem
areas.
Cattle Marketing
4.15      Transmigration areas do not have adequate facilities or services to
provide farmers with information on current cattle prices and fair trade
practices. At present, private cattle traders are the only source of price
information, and assess cattle values by eye, rarely by weight. Cattle price
information is collected on a monthly basis from limited sources by DGLS.
While up-to-date prices of nine basic commodities are published weekly by
radio and newspapers, cattle and meat prices are not included. Because of the
importance of improved marketing for the fast growing cattle industry, GOI
obtained assistance from ADB in December 1984 for a livestock sector review,
and an evaluation of current cattle markets, price structures, slaughter
facilities, and the marketing and processing of livestock products. These
reviews of the sector and its future marketing needs are expected to be
completed by December 1985. No additional measures are included in the
proposed project to examine the future marketing of project cattle. DGLS is
expected to improve its price information services to farmers on the basis of
recommendations likely to arise from the ADB supported evaluation, and to seek
further assistance from ADB for priority marketing investments identified in
the sector.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      The proposed project will use systems for monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) established under the IFAD project (Annex 6).  A computerized cattle
inventory system has been set up to monitor information provided by SATGAS
teams on calving, mortality, and repayment of offspring of all cattle
distributed. Farmer surveys are being conducted to collect information on how



- 30 -
the farmers use cattle, and the benefits from introducing cattle into the
upland farming system. The survey includes questions on the year-to-year
change of area under arable cultivation by project farmers, the extent of
plowing performed by project cattle, questions about cultivation of forage
legumes and grasses, on-farm and off-farm labor inputs, changes in household
income, marketed surplus, and crop production. In the proposed project, the
M&E unit of the PM0 Planning Division will be expanded and strengthened and an
M&E officer will be appointed to each PMU (Annex 6, para. 11). One full-time
Indonesian consultant will be hired for five years and an internationally
recruited consultant will provide short-term inputs on methodology, survey
design, and analysis (para. 3.23).
4.17      The M&E section will ensure that monthly reports flow from the
SATCAS and PMUs to the PM0, and will also be responsible for special surveys
conducted in the PMU area. Survey data will be entered into the computer at
the PM0 and analyzed by the consultants and M&E staff. The proposed project
will also conduct short-term studies, to addresr specific implementation prob-
lpms, complement a core socioeconomic survey, and assess the impact of forage
development. An assurance was obtained that COI will cause DGLS to (a) con-
tinuously monitor and evaluate project implementation and the socioeconomic
impact of cattle on smallholder beneficiaries; and (b) prepare a Project
Completion Report and submit it to the Bank not later than six months after
project completion (para. 6.01 g).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Farm Development and Farm Incomes
5.01      On-farm benefits from cattle distribution are based both upon
improved crop yields and increased amount of area under cultivation. Farmers
will use cattle manure primarily in the houselot garden, but also in the field
crop area and this will help maintain yields. Without draft power, most farm-
ers are not able to cultivate their reserve crop area. The availability of
draft power significantly decreases the amount of time needed for land prepar-
ation, and enables the farmer to develop his reserve land with a mix of food
and cash crops. Cattle also provide a source of income. After the project
offspring are returned, the farmer can keep or sell future offspring. Over
time, farmers are expected to move to a two-cow herd (to have a pair of work-
ing animals) plus followers. Males will normally be sold at about 2-3 years,
together with 1-2 year old heifers not needed for cow replacement. Incomes
for farmers receiving cattle are projected at more than twice the without
project case by year 16 because of these benefits (from maintaining or
improving yields, expanding area cultivatee; and generating cash income from
cattle saLes) (Rp 390,000 per household in the without project case and
Rp 970,000 per household in the with project case). Details of projected
yields, hectares cultivated and a description of cropping patterns are
presented in Annex 2 along with projected farm income changes.



- 31 -
Beneficiaries
5.02      At least 90Z of the cattle recipients will be transmigrants.  Under
current GOI transmigration policies, participants are (a) drawn from among the
poorest of the rural poor on the Inner Islands who often work only as seasonal
agricultural laborers prior to joining the transmigration program, and (b)
local residents in the transmigration sites, frequently tribal peoples, who
wish to benefit from the developments taking place through transmigration
services and infrastructure. Up to 50Z of transmigration site lands may be
allocated to local peoples who wish to participate. The addition of cattle to
their farming systems will provide them with both draft power and a source of
organic fertilizer which will help them to increase food crop production and
move beyond subsistence. The other recipients will be small farmers, fre-
quently spontaneous migrants, who have settled on the peripheries of official
transmigration sites. About 76,500 farmers will receive cattle during the
initial distribution and 55,000 will receive cattle through redistribution of
offspring during the project implementation period, bringing the total number
of beneficiaries during the project to some 131,000 families. By the time all
redistribution of cattle has been completed, an additional 106,000 settlers
will receive cattle. Additional direct project beneficiaries include farmers
in cattle procurement areas who sell cattle to the project, and the 700 con-
tract forage seed producers in Nusa Tenggara. The project will therefore have
a marked impact also on the provincial economies in procurement areas by
providing greater market outlets for cattle and creating incomes from seed
production.
Institution BuiLding
5.03      The project will expand the management structure developed for the
IFAD project and more DGLS staff will receive sound experience in all aspects
of project management, implementation, monitoring, and impact evaluation.
Particular aspects of the project that will have significant institution
building benefits include:
(a) establishment of about 450 new SATGAS staff positions will greatly
increase the number of junior staff receiving extensive, practical
field experience. These staff will form a valuable staff resource
pool for DGLS extension services;
(b) an M&E system will have been thoroughly field tested by the time of
project completion and will be available for use in other DCLS
programs;
(c) a total of some 500 PM0, PMU and SATGAS staff will receive training
and farmers will receive training in livestock management, with key
farmers receiving more intensive training, designed to test and
demonstrate better forage, cropping and erosion control techniques; and



- 32 -
(d) the project will provide training and technical assistance to build
the adminstrative and financial capacity of KUDs, so that coopera-
tives can handle cattle credit operations. Provided the KUDs are
sufficiently well developed, they wiLl handle credit for the first
or second generation offspring of Project cattle. Following repay-
ment of cattle debt, the cattle owned by farmers will be important
in providing collateral for all forms of farm credit services.
Economic Rate of Return
5.04      The project has an economic rate of return of about 25Z.  Project
benefits are based on (a) benefits from increased crop output; and (b) bene-
fits from higher cattle offtakes as a result of moving cattle to better condi-
tions where they have higher calving rates, reduced calf mortality rates and
reduced aduLt mortality. Project costs are based upon total project costs and
post-project operating costs. Certain components of project works (the BCDIU
disease investigations and 50% of the cattle holding grounds) are excluded
from the calculations on the basis that these components provide benefits that
accrue to the livestock industry overall. Detailed explanations of economic
prices used in the economic analysis for cattle, labor and other agricultural
inputs and outputs are described in Annex 2. The sensitivity of the economic
rate of return is tested against basic assumptions such as the level of
expected benefits and project costs in para. 5.11.
Project Risks
5.05      The project organization has demonstrated its ability to procure and
distribute through private traders steadily increasing numbers of breeding
stock under the IFAD project. The number of cattle to be handled in the first
two years of the proposed project does not exceed numbers reached in the IFAD
project. Implementation capacity seems adequate and will be further
strengthened under the proposed project. There are other risks, but all are
acceptable, as discussed below.
5.06      Demand for Cattle.  Recent transmigrants welcome cattle and quickly
use them for draft power. In older farm communities, smallholders still seek
cattLe as a means of raising and stabilizing incomes, but sometimes use the
cattle for transportation rather than draft power. The project is designed
mainly to help recent transmigrants in order to maximize income-generating
benefits from the cattle.
5.07      The project size will give cattle to Repelita III settlers already
in place and not yet supplied with cattle, and to less than half of the number
of settlers GOI expects in the project area during Repelita IV. Should demand
for cattle from transmigrants be even less, if for example, the number of
families settling in tree crop schemes increases, alternative strategies
could:
(a) decrease the ratio of farmer recipients to applicants from the
present 1:3 to 1:2. The effect of this would be to give a higher
proportion of smallholders cattle brought from Sulawesi and Nusa



- 33 -
Tenggara, decrease those who must await redistributed ofEspring in
each selected vilLage, and would decrease the total number of
families benefiting in the longer term from the project;
(b) increase the number of cattle distributed to local residents and
spontaneous migrants near official transmigration sites. In this
case, benefits from increased crop production wouLd decline (because
local residents tend to use cattle less for draft), but those from
increased herd productivity would be sustained. If the benefits
from crop production were reduced by 50Z, the economic rate of
return would fall to about 21% (para. 5.11);
(c) reduce the project size and canceL part of the loan proceeds. This
wouLd not jeopardize the economic viability of the operation. A
reduction in project size of 50% could reduce the economic rate of
return by about 2% to 23% (para. 5.11).
5.08      Disease Risks.  The risk of disease losses in the cattle distri-
bution areas is small, if animal health services are able to properly vacci-
nate and treat stock. The project minimizes this risk by making the SATCAS
the front-line animal health workers. DGLS will support SATGAS in cattle
distribution areas with veterinary services for diagnosis and treatment of
serious cases (para. 4.06). The exception concerns Jembrana disease, for
which there is as yet no firm identification, treatment, or control. While
Jembrana is still endemic on Bali, there have been no confirmed outbreaks
elsewhere in Indonesia. The BCDIU is making encouraging progress in
addressing the Jembrana problem (Annex 4), and investigations will be intensi-
fied under the project. As with the IFAD project, Jembrana disease presents
an acceptable risk.
5.09      Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara have not suffered Jembrana outbreaks
(there is evidence that Bali-origin cattle there have acquired resistance to
it), and have been free of foot-and-mouth disease for many years. GOI has
taken strict precautions to prevent foot-and-mouth disease entering the cattle
procurement areas, and no movement of live cattle to these isi!inds is
permitted. In the unlikely event of serious disease outbreaks in the procure-
ment areas, the project would have little alternative but to suspend cattle
transfers and reduce the project size, which would not affect the economic
viability overall.
5.10      Cattle Losses.  There are two separate risks of cattle losses.
First, losses during shipping are an economic loss to Indonesi', and an assur-
ance was obtained that only shipping with adequate specifications for cattle
will be used by contractors (para. 3.04). The second possible loss of cattle
is the risk that beneficiaries might not repay the project by not returning
two calves, or may return only male calves. Either is unlikely, judging from
experience in the first project. Project-supplied cattle will be clearly
branded with specific numbers, and are closely supervised by resident SATGAS
staff. In addition, the peer pressure within the receiving communities is
high, and neighbors awaiting female offspring take a keen interest in the
welfare of calves born to the first beneficiaries.



- 34 -
Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      The projected economic rate of return has been tested against the
possible adverse impact of the main project risks as described in
paras. 5.05-5.10, and to other adverse assumptions (Table 5.1). Benefits from
incremental crop production might be reduced by (a) farmers not using the
catt'e as draft power, (b) less Land being cultivated or (c) lower crop
yields. If crop benefits were reduced by 50Z the economic rate of return
would falL to about 21%, while if there were no incremental crop benefits and
project benefits were derived entirely from incremental herd productivity, the
economic rate of return would be about 15Z. Should actual project costs be
50% higher than expected, the rate of return would fall to 21Z, while if the
project scope were reduced by half, the rate of return would fall to 23Z.
Table 5.1:  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Economic rate
Assumptions                                            of return
3
Base case                                                 25%
Benefits from incremental crop production
reduced by 50%                                         21
No incremental crop production benefits                   15
No incremental livestock productivity gains               21
Project scope reduced by 50Z                              23
Project costs increased by 50%                           21
Cost; Recovery
5.12      Project costs will be recovered from sale of first and second
generation male calves (except for those kept to be redistributed at a -atio
of 1:10 with female offspring) and culled heifers not suitable for redistribu-
tion (female offspring will be culled at about 10% before redistribution to
the next group of farmers), and from direct cattle sales, financed by BRI, to
farmers and KUDs. The cost recovery index (the ratio of the present value of
incremental direct public sector cash revenues to the present value of incre-
mental project financiaL costs in constant terms) was calculated in two ways,
with a Low and t high estimate of the future market value of cattle in the
project areas.     The index is estimated at 26Z for the low market price
projections for offspring and 32Z for the high market price projections for
17/ High prices (1985 Rupiabs) are ap 230,000 for 18-month old heifers and Rp
190,000 for males.  Low prices are Rp 180,000 for heifers and Rp 150,000
for males.



- 35 -
offspring. (These calculations are presented in Annex 2, Tables 11 and 12.)
Hore cattle are returned to the project than procured, but because they are
returned several years (and discounted by time) after the main project costs
and because cattle procured from,pe Eastern Islands have high transport
costs, the cost recovery is low,   The cost recovery index is low
considering the high economic rate of return, because many of the benefits in
the economic rate of return (increased crop production and higher cattle
offtake levels resulting from the project) are not captured directly by GOI
but by the farmer. However, this level of recovery is acceptable given the
low incomes of the project beneficiaries.
5.13      GOI Cash Flows.  The pro,ect-related cash outflows, and inflows to
GOI are shown in Annex 2, Table 13.
Environmental and Social Impact
5.14      Moving breeding cattle from South Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara will
help slow herd growth there and relieve grazing pressure. The cattle will be
shifted mostly from uncontrolled herds grazing on natural pastures, where
their grazing patterns lead to soil erosion and fertility decline. After
distribution, they will be tethered in individual stalls, and fed on a daily
cut and carry system. In addition, their manure will raise soil fertility
significantly, particularly on the houselot gardens and arable crop fields.
The planting of forage on paths, boundaries and contours will also have a
positive environmental impact by helping control soil erosion and maintain
soil fertility. It is unlikely that farm families will milk the cattle since
Bali cattle produce little milk in excess of what is required by the calf.
5.15      Role of Women.  The project has no component specifically directed
at women, but women are integral to the project because both women and
children traditionally are very involved in feeding and caring for cattle.
The project is expected to have a significant impact in improving nutritional
status for the household overall, both directly from the increased production
of food crops, especially protein-rich legume crops, and indirectly from the
rise in net cash incomes.
5.16      Impact on Poverty.  Almost all of the direct project benefits will
accrue to the poor. About 90% of cattle beneficiaries will be transmigrants
below the rural poverty threshold when they receive the project cattle. About
80X of total project costs are directed to the poor. The direct benefits from
the project are income-generating increased crop production and higher cattle
offtakes which will accrue entirely to the project beneficiaries.
18/ The cost recovery of cattle investment alone from cattle sales by the
project is about 65Z with the high price projection and 50% with the low
price projection using a 101 discount rate. At a zero discount rate, the
levels are 105Z and 84% respectively.



- 36 -
VI*. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that.
(a) cattle traders who are awarded contracts for supplying cattle will
(i) ensure that the cattle are accompanied during shipping and
transportation by a trained animal health worker whose experience is
acceptable to DGLS and (ii) arrange shipping which provides adequate
forced ventilation and loading/unloading ramps, and the minimum
specifications per head set out in para. 3.04, with a minimum three-
day reserve supply of feed and water in excess of contracted
shipping times (para. 3.04);
(b) the project organization will be maintained by DGLS at least until
the first generation distribution is completed, projected to be by
the year 1997 (para. 3.26);
(c) consultants will be employed on a schedule agreed with the Bank and
engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines and terms of reference
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.36);
(d) vehicles and motorcycles will be procured for the project according
to an annuaL schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.38);
(e) adequate and separate accounts will be maintained for the project;
all contracts, orders and receipts will be kept for at least one
year after the cLosing of the loan; and independent audits of each
year's accounts, including a separate audit opinion of all SOEs
submitted for withdrawal of loan proceeds, will be submitted to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each COI fiscal year (para.
3.41);
(f) GOI will annually study the most appropriate methods for providing
credit and cooperative services to farmers receiving cattle under
the project and will furnish the results of the study to the Bank
for comments by December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,
1987. GOI will thereafter make any necessary adjustments to credit
and cooperative services arrangements taking into account the Bank's
comments on such studies (para. 4.10); and
(g) GOI will cause DGLS to (i) continuously monitor and evaluate project
implementation and the socioeconomic impact of cattle on smallholder
beneficiaries, and (ii) prepare a Project Completion Report and
submit it to the Bank not later than six months after project
completion (para. 4.17).
6.02      The signing of a financing agreement between BI (on behalf of GOI)
and BRI and a subfinancing agreement between B I and DCIS, both acceptable to
the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.11).



- 37 -
6.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project will be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent with a 20-year maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable interest rate.
The Borrower will be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 38 -
INDONESIA
SHALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 1: DETAILED COSTS, ALLOCATION OF
LOAN PROCEEDS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Table of Contents
Page No.
List of Tables
1.   Snmmary Cost Estimates...e...............                  .....        39
2.   Summary Accounts by Year...................................             40
3.   Proposed AlLocation of Loan Proceedso.......                            41
4. Projected Disbursements                                                    42
5.   Civil Works                                                             43
6.   Project Vehicle Requirements................... ........                 44
7.   Equipment Procurement......................................             45
8.   Forage Seed and Forage Development Physical Inputs.u.......             46
9. Technical Assistance                                                      47
10.                 Rrtinin g                                                 48
tl,   Post Project Recurrent GOI Expeniuesnditures.409*                       49



ANNEX 1
_39g                                     Table I
IONESTA
SMALLOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Snmamry Accounts Cost Sumary /1
iltiPIUNR IItib^        piSSx IItitor            X Total
__________________________  ------------------- Z Foreign  Base
tocal  Foreign  total   Locat Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
2n:222s  tnzssfsl wstints: 22222 22fl2= =2r= 2 ===-=  ====
1. IXVESTMT COTS
A. CIVIL IIS                                469.3   372.5 n .342.5   0.4    0.5  1.2         65       3
IL EOUIPRET
OTRER EQUIPIIEI                          295.t1  33.4  1. 130.5   0.3    0.S  1.l         TS        2
FURNITURE                                126.0   378.0   504.1   0. 1    0.3  0.5         75        1
VETERINARY ESUIPRENT                     215.4    46.3  8o1.tl  0.2    0.6  0.1           75        2
TRAINING EWIPMET                          35.7   107.0   142.6   0.0    0.1  0.1          75       0
ACRICUTJRL RZINERY M  TOOLS               48.3   143.5   135.3   0.0    0. 1  0.2         75        0
SEED PICTION EQUIPMNT                     20.4    51.2    31.6   0.0    0 .   0.1         T5        0
WEINIT BRIGE                              96.2   233.1   334.8   0.1    0.3  0.3          75        1
Sub-Total EWoIPEI                           837.7 2.513.1  3350.7   0.8    2.3  3.0          75       6
C. VENIlLES
VENICLES                                 131.3   72.3   9065   0.1    0.7  0.8            85       2
MOTORBIKES                                42.6   241.5   234.1   0.0    0.2  0.J3         S5 
Sub-Totl VENICLES                           178.39 l.0.8  t.t!l2. 7   0.2    0.9  1. I       a5       2
D. LIVESTOCA                             27.752.7  4. B9u.5 32.50.2  25.2    1.5 29.7        iS      63
Total INVESTIMET CSTS                       22.23. 1 L29C.9 31.536 I  25.6    1.5  35.0         24      75
It. RECURRENT CSTS
IL UTILITIES                               216.0    26.0   240.1   0.2    0.0  0.2          tO       0
B. StOItNSTRATIVE                        2.S57.5   285.3 2.8528   2.3    0.3  2.6           to       6
C. TUVEL                                 1.762.3    12 8  1,855.0   1.6    0.1  1.7          5       4
0. VEHICLE OPERATION                       470.3    U.0   553.3   0.4    0 1  0.5           IS       I
E. EQUIPMENT MAINTENNUCE AND OPERiTION      27.3    Si.3   10l.2   0.0    0.   0. 1         75       0
F. CATTLE SELECTION UD REDISTRIBUTION      171.7       -   171.7   0.2       -  0.2          -       0
G. MISCELLANEOUS                            82.1       -    E2.1   0.1       -  0.1          -       0
H. MEOICINE DISTRIBUTION AMD APPLICATION    71.8   118.3   197.1   0.1      0.1  0.2        60       0
1. SALARIES                              2. 06?2       - 2.106.?2   1.9      -  1.39                 4
IL AiNltA PROCUREMENT                      282.4       -   282.4   0.3       -  0.3          -       I
R. SEED PRODUCTION                           6.3     4.2    10.5   0.0    0.0  0.0          40       0
L NURSERY DEEL OPMENT                      127.3    84.3   212.1   0 I    0.l  0.2          40       0
iL FARMER EQUIPMENT OISTRWUTION             38, .   12.9    51.4 *.0    0.0  0 .0           25       0
N. TRAINING                                963.1       -    13.1      0.     -  0.3                  2
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTAUCE                  1.789.  1.704.6 3414.S   1.6    1.5  3.2           49       7
Total RECURRENT COiS                        i0.1801.7 2.431.? 13.181 4   9.7    2.3  12.0       is      25
Total BASELINE COSTS                         39.3928i. 11783.6 St.717.5  31.3   10.7 47.0        23     100
Physical ContiMmciss                       3.2212  1.138.7 4.361.8   2.9    1.0  4.0          26       B
Price Contingencies                       13.707.2 3.019.5 tL5726 6   1? 5    2.7  15.2       13a     32
Total PROWECT COSTS                          SL.IS9.I 1L.36.5 72.80S.3  519.7   14.5  56.2      22     141
*sssax,ass 2azzw*as sss,ss Cs- s.=.. s ..... .2.... ss = sr .:.   __z===
11 Total project costs shown here exclude US$0.2 milion in technical
assistance for project preparation.



ANNEX 1
-40-                                          Table2
INDONESIA
SALLHOL^DER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts By Year /1
Totals Including Contingemies                     Totals Including ContinVPg its
IRUPltH wil Itst                                    cUss MHiioni
935     9g86      1987     1388     1389     1990   total I1985 1986 1987 1918 1989 1990 Total
1. INVESTMET COSrS
A. CIVIL 1                                        -  I.133.0    505.1        -      15.6     12.3  L. 0 o      -  1.0  0.5    - 0.0  0.0   1.5
6. EQUIPMT
OTHER EQUIPMET                                 -    7964    398.8    95.        105.6   122.0  1.518.5      - 0. 7 0.4  0.1  0.1  0.1 L. I
FURNITURE                                      -    162.6     36.2   127.5    146.5   173.3   708. 1    - 0.1  0.1 0. 1 0.1 0.2  0.6
VETERIIIAR EQUIPMENT                           -   514.3   192.5   12  1    143.6    t66.9  1.143.4        - 0.5  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.2   1.0
TRAINING EQUIPMENT                             -    37.       23 .     36.4     44.0    52.4    202.2       - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.2
AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY ND TOOLS                -    5-.4      39.3    50.9      58. 7    63.3    275.6      - 0. I 0. 0  0.0  0.1 0.1  0.3
SEED PROMCTION EOUIPIET                        -      I. 3       -        -        -        -    s8 3       - 0.1   -    -    -   -  0.1
HEIGHT BRIDGE                                  -     85.2     91.   132.2    119. 0    is. 7   S43.8       - 0.1 0.1  0.1  0.1 0.1   0.5
-- ---  - -- - -   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   --- ---   --- - -  --- -. --        - >-  --- --  --- --   --- --   --- --  - -- - -   - - -- -
S*-Total EUIPIET                                  -  1.752.0   850.1   570.9    617.3   692.6 4.48.9           -  1.6 0.8  o.  0. 6  0.6  4.1
C. VEHICLES
VEICLES                                        -   74S.4   125.9    79.9    115.0    93.2  1.159.3         - 0.7  0.t 0.1  0.1  0.1  t1.
NOTORBIKES                                     -    80.3    63.0    72.9        8L S9  9.2   399.3          -    0.1 t I 0.1  0.?  LI1  0.4
S*-Total VEHICLES                                -   825.7    186.    152.8    139S.       12.3  l.558,6     - 0.8  0.2  0.1  0.2  0.2   t.4
0. LIVESTOCK                                1.411.5  L 560.8  7.0S33  9.171.9 to.s575.3 12.492.1 47.352.9   1.3  6.0  6.4  .3  3.s 11.4  43.0
- - - - - -- - -- ---- - -- -- --- - -- ---- - -- ----- - ------   ---- ---- ---- - --- --- ---- ----
Total INVESTHEIT CoSTS                         1.461.5 10.271.5  L.627.3  9.903.6 11.407.2 13. 396. 3 55.067.4   L.3 9.3  7.8  9.0 10.4 12.2  50. 1
*-=  unXg:Xa: uSXshuss  uu:--u: rus=S::: su:utus  tnmn:w  gtt: ==-=  ==  = :   ur= :== ::T
It. RECURRENT CST S
A. UTILITIES                                     -    53.8    S8.L1       2.7     67.7    73.1    315.3      - 0.o  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.3
B. ADMINISTRATIVE                                     4319.4   576 .    7S0.3    952.0 1t 115.1  3. 35.7     - 0.4  0.5  0.7 0.3  L0   3.5
C  TRAVEL                                        -   280.9   374.6   496.7    594.5   754.7  2 50L.4         - 0.3  0.3  0.5  0. 5  0.7   2.3
L VEHICLE OPERATION                              -    68.3   108.3   157.9    214.1   280.0   323.2          - 0. I 0.1 0.1 0.2  0.3   0.8
. EQUIPMEIIT MAINTENAUCE AND OPERATIOl           -    41.3    44.5    46.1         S.0      5.4    144.3     - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1
F. CATTLE SELECTION UID REDISTRIBUTION           -    23.3    37.9    46 1        61.2    78 8   2s5.3       - 0.0  0 0  0.0  0.o    I 0 I  0.2
C. MISCELLANEOUS                                 -      A.4    19. 9    2L.5      23.2    25. I   10B.2       - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 o.o  QLt
M. WEDICINE DIS1RIlUTON AND APPLICATION          -    35.8    42.2    55.7        67.8    85.0   286.4        - 0.0  0.0  0.1 01  U.t   0.3
1. SALARIES                                      -   253.2   376.4   540.8   736.0   971.7  2.880.1          - 0.2  0.3  0.5  0.7  0.9   2.6
d. ANIMA  PROCURIIEIIT                           -    67. 9    147.3   114.5      35.0    25.2   390.0       - 0.1 L.  0.1  0.0  0.0 Lo     4
IL SEED PRODUCTION                               -       L.I     2.3      3.0      3.4      4.6    15.3       - 0.0  LU  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0
L  NURSERY DEVELOPMENT                           -    39.5      4.8      C1.5     69. 1    92. 9    309.8    - 0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1 0.1      .3
. FARMER EQUIPMET  DISTRIBUTION                  -      7.1      8.3      12.9    20.0    29.0    77.3        - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.t
N. TRIINIING                                     -   455.2   422.0       aS.5     94.5    119.0  t. 176.3    - 0.4  0.4  0.1 0.I I 0. t . I
0. TECDItICIL ASSISTANCE                         -  1.291.0  1. 721.2  1.385.6    21.0        - 4. 613.9     -  1.7  t. L    1.3  0.2    -  4. 2
- - -- ----   - ---- -  -- -- - --- -  -- -- ---- -  -- - --- -  ------- -    ---- -   --- - - ---     ----   ----   ---   - ----
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                - 3.083.8  3.990.6  3.845.0  3. 159.7  3.659.5 17.738.      - 2.8  3.6 3.5  2.9  3.3  16.1
:33.5.. :5333     s smut:::: g:sts:ss :ssst:ss   u :s:5 s :tt .tas ts  MT-: =s:= 5:s: *-:: tg:2 Mru. msts=
Total PROJECT COSTS                             1.461.  13.35S.2  L. 617.U9 13.74L 6 14.566. 9 17.055.8 72.805.2   1.3 12. 1 t1.  1 2.5 13. 2 15. 5  6. 2
1-5s-    535-5---- ---- -- ---I--------- -- -- -s--------:S : -s: st-  = :::  =S: -::-    =u=: - -s:=r  ===:  :=:
/1 Total project costs shoew here exclude US$0.2 miflion in technical assistance
for project preparation.



- 41-                               ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pr s  location   f       nProeds
Base price
plus expected         Loan        Disbursement
price increases   IFAD  Bank   IFAD  Bank  Total
(US$ million)   -                (X)
Cattle                               37.8          7.6  24.6    20    65    85
Civil works                           1.3           -    0.8      0    60    60
Veterinary equipment and
weighbridges                        1.2           -    0.7      0    60    60
other equipment, farm tools
machinery and furniture             2.2           1.1    -     50      0    50
Vehicles and motorcycles              1.2          0.9    -      80      0    80
Consultants                           3.5           -    3.5      0   100   100
Training                              1.0           1.0    -    100      -   100
Project administratlon               10.7           -      -      0      0     0
Technical assistance for
project preparation                 0.2          0.2    -    100       0   100
Taxes                                 2.2           -      -      0      0     0
Physical contingencies
(incl. price increases)             5.1           -      -      -     -      -
Unallocated                            -            1.2   2.4
Total Costs                    66.4          12.0  32.0



- 42 -                                  ANMEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Disbursements
Bank            Bank                IFAD /b                       Profile
Actual IFAD   Actual all
fiscal year             Cumu-               Cumu-    Projected  Smallholder   Indonesia
and semester  Semester  lative   Semester  lative        for       Cattle      agriculture
project    Project /c   projects
(US$ million equivalent) -                          (Z)               -
1986
Second         0.0       0.0       0.2      0.2          0          0              0
1987
First          0.2        0.2      0.1      0.3
Second         0.6       0.8       0.2      0.5          3          3              4
1988
First          1.0        1.8      0.5      1.0
Second         4.5       6.3       2.2      3.2         19         14             12
1989
First          1.0        7.3      0.5      3.7
Second         4.7      12.0       1.5      5.2        37          33             24
1990
First          1.2       13.2      0.5      5.7
Second         5.2      18.4       1.5      7.2        57          58            39
1991
First          1.2       19.6      0.5      7.7
Second         5.2      24.8       1.6      9.3        78         (90)           55
1992
First          1.5      26.3       0.8     10.1
Second /a      5.7      32.0       1.9     12.0       100        (100)           70
1993
Second                                                                           83
/a   Closing date March 1992.
7F-  IFAD loan includes US$0.2 million to be recovered at Loan Effectiveness for project
preparwtion costs advanced by IFAD in 1984.
/c   Figures are actuals except those in parentheses which are forecast based on
contracts placed for delivery in October 1984, and budget funds allocated in GOI
FY85/86.



ANNEX 1
Table 5
- 43-
INDONESILA
S1AILROLDER CATTLE DEVEOPNENT PROJECT
Civil Works
MM96117                     1907/89                       Total         Unit Cost   Total C05t
Holding ground                                                                                     did-195 Rp Hillimu
Developwent
Jambi                                           add 500 head unit                   1               99.7       99.7
Dmnqkulu                                        expand mxisting unit                1               99.7       99.7
by 500 head
C. Sulawesi        add 500 head unit            add 500 head unit at                2               99.7      197.4
at Tobali                    Pantoloan port
S. Sulaesi         uprade tio 500 head                                              2               99.7      197.4
units at BUDi & Palopo
NT.T.              complete existing            add 500 head unit                                            135.12
500 head unit               at Atapupu
N.T.D.             add 500 head unit                                                1              89.76    197.47
Hadura                                          expand existing unit                1               49.4       49.4
by 500 head
Total Rolding Ground                                                                                          974.2
DC"IU
sterile laboratory                  2                                               2              151.2      302.4
isolation stable                    4                                               4                9.9       35.6
Total BCDUi                                                                                                     338
Forage Facilities - NTI    seed processing
center                                                                              30
TOTAL CIVIL SOKS                                                                                             1342.2



INDONESIA
SK4ALLHOLDBR CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project VehLcle Regul.re~mnts
Total                   TOTAL MST lisi-29M  Op hillioul
1106/17                     11871Il                          19181189                       1"9/91                            199191
Fur  truck/ Mimi- Nhtor-  Four   truck/ Nini- Motor-  Four   truck/ Mimi- Mater-  Far,  truckl Mimi- Motor-  Four  truKki Mfini- Motor-  Fur  truck/ Mini- Nater-    Fur   truck/ Mimi- Mater-
Swel pick/up  bus  cycles  Ekedl pick/up  bus  cycles  lint picklup  bus  cycles  Whuti pick/up  Ins  cycles  Pie.! pick/up bus  cycles Owl! pick/to  bus  cycles    NeMI picklqp  bus  cycles
jakafte-mO                  2              3        2        2             2         3                                                                                                    4        0      4       5        50         0   34         4
RIAU             to)        2         2             2                                                                                                                                     2         2     0       2         21       13      0       2
SAISAS              2              a                        I                       2             12                2             12               2             12      0        9      0      12         0       57      0      45
jimbI            P1         2         1             2                 1                                                                                                                   2         2     0       2         21       13      0       2
Holding Iraun                                                                    2                                                                                                     0        0      0       2         0        0      0       2
BATBAS              2              I                               4                 I             4                 I             I               I              I      0        5      0      32         0       32       0     29
U.Sumatra        PMW        2                        2                2                                                                                                                   2         2     0       2         21       13      0       2
SAMAJS              3             16                3             16                2             263 6                                            2             1A      0       13   0         SO         0        93  0       70
Liegaipli        P1         2         I              2                I                                                                                                                   2         2     0       2         2!       13      0       2
SAT6AS              2              I                 I             B                 I             I                 2             a                I             8  0            7  040                    0    45  0 2
Im   kulv  m   I        I             ~~~2      I        I                                                                                                                   2        2      0       2        21        13      0       2
lemidiv Irowm                                                                      2                                                                                                     0        0  0           2         0         0  0           2
SAI                 I              Al                I             4                               4                I              4               1              4      0        4      0      22         S       25      0       19
V. heatra        P1         2         2              2                                                                                                                                     2        2      0       2        25       13      0       2
SAIGAS         I              2                               4                I              4                               4               1              6      0        3      0      20         0       29      0      27
Total  ueatra FM           If         7   0        12        I        1   0         0       0         0   0         0       0         0   0          0       0      0      0       0   12         12             12        149       76      0      iS
Huldilg Orowd            0        0   0          0       0        0   0          4       0         00        0       0        0     0        0       0       0       0      0       0       0          0       4         0         0     0        3     
huIM       0       It    0        48       0        6    0        44       0         7    0       48       0         9    0       52       0       a      0      14      0       41      0    246           0     262       0    214
lIMItI
C. salamei  P2W              2        2              2                                                                                                                                     2        2      0       2        2!       13      0       2
Welding Ground                                   2                               2                                                                                                     0        0      0       4         0         0     S        3
IATIIAS                                             I             2                 1             6                 I             6                              6      0        3      0      20          0       19      0      17
S.  bla*mei  P3                         2                                                                       2           2                                                                              0       2        25       13      0       2
Holding Srovd                                    4                                                                                                                                     0        0      0       4         0         0     0       3
11154              I              2                               2                               2                I              2                              4  0            2  0          12         0    1301to
SEhIla.s1   P1              2         2              2                               26                                                                                                    2        2      0       2        21       131     0       2
lAThAS                                             I                                                                                                                    0        3      0      16         0        19     0      If
Total ulauuIPl M                     6   0          6       0        0   0          0       0        0   0          0       0         0   0         0       0       0      0       0      6        6      0       6         71       so      0       5
Holding kound            0        0    0         6l      0        0    0         2       0        0    0         0       0        0    0         0       0       0      0       0      0        0      0       I         0         0     0        7
6AI1A    0         1    0         2       0        2    0         6       0         I    0       12       0        3    0        12       0        I     S      26      0        S      0      41          S       St     S      42
East )&VA    P11                                             2        2                                              2                                                                    2         2      0       2        25       23      0       2
Halting Iromd                                                                     2                                                                                                     0        0      0       2          0        0      0       2
W. 1. 9.  FM  2  2                                                                                                                        .1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 0  2  25  1 3     5 
Hoidimg Stoodi                                    2                                                                                                                                     2               0       2         25       13      S
N.TY.T.        PM)          2         2              1                1                                                                                                                                              I                         
Molding Iraund                                                                    2                                                                                                     0                       2a                                 2             I
P120                ~~~~~2    0  3           2    2            0  1           3    0           0  0          0    0            0  0           0    0    0   0    0   4                       0   4    5              50        0 34           4
PMNIS                      2 1       lb    0       2 1       3        S    0         I       0        0    0         2       0        0    0         0       0       0      0       0    24        24      0      24       299      253      6      2 1
Noldin  Gfrounds             0        II    0        I       0        0    0        10       0        0    0         0       0        0    0         0       0       0      0       0      0        0      0      to         0        0      0      if
SATBAS                      0        12    0       50        0        B    0       so        0        a    0        60       0       12    0        64       0       9      0      70      0       49      0    294          0      312      0    25
TOTAL                      23        29    3       SIt               16    I       64        0        S    0        62       0       I2    0        64       0       9      0      70    29        73      4    341        349      464    34    296



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                                        Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALLEOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Procurement
1986117  1987/99  199/899  1989/90  1990/91  Total
PMJ. p  uipoent  ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    -- - -~--~---- -- Wits ------   -----
P10J PHD, SAYGAS Equipment
manual typewriters                                                61        31       30       32       35     1I9
electric typewriters                                               6                                             6
calculator                                                        95       35        30       32       35      227
office furniture - PllO                                             I                                            I
office furniture-SATGAS sets                                      25       25        30       32       35      147
air conditioner                                                     I                                            I
planning facilities   sets                                          I                                            I
slide proiectors                                                    I                                            I
overhead projectors                                                 1                                            1
stencil achinery                                                    I                                            1
photocopy machinery                                                 I                                            I
camras                                                              4                                            4
PHU radios                                                         12                                           12
SAT6AS radios                                                     25       25        30       32       35      147
data board                                                          1                                            1
veterinary equipment
refrigerators                                                      12                                           12
agricultural tools                  sets
wighing brides                      I per 3 SA9T1                  8        9        10       11       11       49
training equipment                  sets                          25       25        30       32       35      147
computer and other miscellaneous equipmnt
HOLDING GROUS
For each holding ground: loading ramp1 generator, water pump,        4        5                                    9
sprayer, tractor, agric. tools, and miscellaneous equipment
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR CATTLE TRANSFER
Loading/Unloading Ramps                                                       10                                  10
Portable Pipe Yards                                                  4                                             4
TRAINING
package: slide projector, overhead projector, other materials        1                                             1
FDRJ1E SEED PRODUCTION mD FORAGE DEVELOPMENT
generator, water pup  seed weigher seed storage, water               1                                             1
wheel, moisture tester, water tani  100 kg scale, seed                                                           I
sorter, agric. tools, office furnilure, and air conditioner                                                      I
key farmer plous                      I per 10 famers             1790     1948    2377       2680     3113    11899
SATGAS nursury fencing                500 *2/nursury             12500    12500    15000    16000    17500    73500
SAT6AS nursury tools/                 I settnursury                 25       25       30        32       35      147
sprayers
DCDIU
laboratory equipment
refrigerator chest type                                            1         1                                   2
freezer                                                            I         1                                   2
refrigerator 202 litres                                            3        2                                    5
laboratorv animals
cattle                                         175      365      265       75       50       930
small animals                                  350      300                                 650
rodents                                       4000                                         4000
NOTE: P1W procurement based on following schedule: transfer of 10 existing PIUs from the first project in Year 1
(1996/97); development of three new PIUs in year 1 (1996/97).
SAT1AS developent from phasing of cattle drops as follows: Years I amd 2: 251 Year 3: 30; Yewr 4: 32; Year 5: 35
Veterinary Equiment consists of syringes, swabs, needles, and other equipment used for routine cattle health
examinations. Agricultural equipment consists of hoes, machetes, and so on. Training equipmnt consists of writing
materials, white boards with erasers and markers, and so on.



ANNEX 1
Table 8
- 46-
INDONESTA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forage Seed Production and ForaRe Nursery Development
SEED PRODUCTION AREAS
199b!17   1997/99   190/919   1999/90   1990191    Total
Forage Seed Production - llus Tenggara
Tota lNumber of Seed Producers Required
I drop
liotoro        0.33 d.25                                              8.25       9.N       10.56     11.55      U.51
grass           2.25                                      56.25      56.25      67.50      72.00     78.75    330.75
leauue          0.33                                       0.25       9.25       9.90      10.56     11.55      49.51
total seed producers                                      72.75      72.75      87.30     93.12    101.95    427.77
Unit Cnst Total Cost
Producer Input Requirewnts                                                                                                 in Rp    in  000 R
eount/producer                                                                          mid-1995      Id-1995
lastoro seedlings               50 seedlings                413        413        495       529        5?W       2426              3         a
grass                           2 kg                        113        113        135        144        158       62           3950       2547
legume                          2kt                          17         17         20         21         23        97          3950        374
urea                            lO g                        563        563        675        720        788      3300            121       100
TSP                             50 kg                        03         93         99        106        116       405           121         S9
pesticide                       I kg                        729        728        873        931      1014       4279          1650       7050
Total                                                                                                                                    10445
DISTFIBUTION AREAS
Nursery Inputs Cost Suary (mid-1995 Rp '000)
Costs per Nursery
tree legume  se      25 kg I Rp 210D                      5' 5u
grass seed           56.25 kg   R9 3600                  202.50
iegume seed          25 kg I Rp 3600                      90.00
lime                    70/kg                             70.00
urea                 io 110/g                              1.24
TSP                   p 110/k9                             5.50
inoculant            Rp 3,0001packaee                      0.23
pesticide            R  i 50i9   -                           51
rencing              500 o @ Rp 00                       150.00
forage maintenance                                       206.95
spravpr and tools                                         90.x;
less: credit repavment from procurement areas            -49.U z
Total                                                    e1q.h1
NOTE:  Seed costs include procurement in producing areas and shipent
to protect sites.
Number e~f Nurseries to be DeveWoped                    1986697   1097189  1P99/9   1989990   1990191    Total
P Nusrter of Nurseries;-  per                                40         44       5          55         69        261
500 farmers receiving initial
distribution cattle or
retist!buted catti2i



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                            Table 9
INDONESIA
SMALLEOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Man-months
Local Service
Project Nanatement
Financlal control                                                       36
Seeds                                                                   36
Forage                                                                  36
Monitoring and Evaluation
Team leader                                                             24
Computer system analyst                                                 24
Livestock specialist                                                      8
Agricultural economist                                                   6
Others                                                                   6
Cooperative Developmnt
onsultant team ileader                                                  36
Special studies in credit, mnagement, marketing and accounting          48
BCDIU
B1ochemist                                                              24
Pathologist                                                             36
Short-term local scientists                                             48
Total Local Services                                           368
Resident Foreln Services
Project Management
cattle development advilsor                                             36
BCDIU
Senior scientist                                                           36
Visiting Foreign Services
Project Management
Forage speciallst                                                        8
Monitoring and evaluation methodology and studies                       16
BCDIU
Vaccine specialist                                                      24
Cooperative DeveloEt
supervisory cons iant in credit management for cooperatives              8
Total Foreign Services                                         128



Am=IK 1
-48-                                                          kbl. 10
SUALLOLDK CATTLK DKVKLOMmUT PROJECT
Type Of                                                    No. of   Legth of        TrItdy
Persanunl                 tratnig                     Subject mtter                  perso      cours         intLtution
sitants to Project           CO1 Iagment          nancial & Peronnel _nsge..t.                 6       I sonth    A31
Drector & Section  oas                           rAnitoring. ImPOting. Iblterial Inven-
tory control
an staff                     COI Nbuagment       Financial & Prdsonne Ibugmant,               22       1 Montb    AAGE
tNitoring. Reporting. material Znveu-
-ory Control
KAy RI) staff                Project managmn  )gsnt Principles & SYts                         20       3 me.ths   Priv_a  Nan.pusst
Institutes or
Universities
Nw 7M  staff                 orientation         Prject Scope. Project Organization.          IS       10 days    PID assisted by
R. PM, SACTS RtsposbiLtit.                                       DCLS
Project Finnce & Proedres. MR.
Reporting
PM SrAIF
Pi staff                     GOI managemet       Finncial   Peronnel 1naegment.               60       1 month    AA31
-itoring.   porting, Unterial
Inventory Control
PM chiefs & key PM staff    Project l     cngmst  _buaent Principles & SystCom               24        1 nobth    Private Hanagement
Institates; ur ML--
veriltes
NeW PMe staff                Orientatin          Project Scope. Project Oramtion.             1S       10 days    mm Assisted by
1, PM. SAsTS Responsbiblities.                                   DMS
Project Finanes, & Proe"ure. mg.
Importing.
seed Ptocessing Technicians   Seed Procesing     Isic Iliory & practice. see Dryin.            3       3 months   Owere  Coure
laning. Te"sing. labeLlng,
SASGAS
Kw SATrAS                    Orelntatin          ProJec Scope, SATGAS Role and Rtspon-    1U7 s 3      5 days     PRO mOisted by
*ibiliatcs, Project Procedures             - 441                 DQS
New SATCAS                    Basle Extsion      Extenion Princsples, Food Crops lte-        441       2 moths    DCIS & AA1
Orientation        grSation of ltag uons Forage Into Food
Cropping Systm.
STACS                         Tn class training   Training in cooperative managment,      I SATGIS     2 moths   CooperatISe
creiat. cattle marketin  and accout-   per  ID                   Tairnn  Crnter
Log to taks over KUD unlt cheif         Cappro<.150)
position
1A3U35                         ln class training   Trainung in coopertiave r anagemnt,         60        2 mmths    Coopnrativa
credit. cattle merkeing and account-                            training Center
Lug to become MD staff
DITRIr COOPERATIVE. DEPART-    In claso training   Training in cooperatlve managemt.           150       2 mnmths  GCoperative
II= STAFF                                          edit cattle mrketing, end accout-                                Training Conter
ing



INDONES IA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Post ProJect Recurrent GOI Expenditures
mid-1985 Rp Million
E10                     flu                      8                     Ibarr    1 Ekin!c  w  cl1e I mh
'hu     aladm       qxm*j        shnadq*m    a14ad   qmu*4M   HUdzmm    MmU                        PImz*u      lavmt
192               29           5           56         Ic      371    1m             36           9          2:          344             2:
1m                29           5          56          190       1    1              34          10           29         344             238
39                29         215          s6          1       3mA     160           36           9          27          344             219
1994e6            29         215          56          190     3        6m           36           8          23          344             2972
L9!1j^96          29         215          56          190      m      1             36           5           16         344             2964
1986V7            29         Z15          56          10       7      m             36           5           14         344             2SQ
L997/             19        1N           38          127     27    1iC9            2            4           12         m               in51
l!U99             19         190          38          127     247    10#;           24           2           7          Z30             171 1
I99O 1        9      193                  38           Z      2(7    I8             24          .1           3          mD              in5w
19         m9           38           27     2(7    IMo            24                                  2N 
mum219                       19                               le       723                                               5              391
2O3               19         39                               is        2                                               15              129
19         19                               1       722                                               3               1m9
2M"               19          183                             l3       72)                                              151             I9
206               19         19                               is       723                                              Li 119
1. no cm    MM  go In        51 sdtnj  alter Fjst pKlAdi alb.
aS4.oct fix Gatt  zmdhtIa  axtin  a m          lWM.
2. -EM    ad IJ Og  14k In a*U  difrbtlm amm an d S MMt    amtnk   t*
faiLai bto ax1 pmje& h1 DIZS aftS MJxt  Id aat zad  1 la  c tn.
3. Pft     s  Ibhu _of A  W namay aLm a zUL  1aWs util    Ia z   b.btlm Ja anplee.
4. rq Fu  %Wn1a ad K** WEl     r     abtiho   OrthiWon f edtt   En Eto g.
tZD   Uistrmdn Of otle.                                                                                                                      R
5. %Mile ad Plpit 1pJauuts  hm  zqg            * a    c t per mm r zutad3 lel d
w       ard sppt fix 30, 3, ad MM



- 50 -
InDONESrA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 2: PROJECT ANALYSIS
Table of Contents
Page No.
Catl Development  .......................          ................      51
Farm Incomes 0000000000                    @                             55
Economic Rate of Return .....       ......................................  56
List of Tables
1. Key Parameters in Farm Development          ..........................    52
2.  Cattle Productivity Coefficients         ............................  54
3.  Farm Income Changes         .........................................  55
4. Upland Settlers in Repelita III and  V........................      58
5.  Cattle Demand/supply  ..... 000000000000000000000000               59
6. Farm Model Without Projeet...................................       60
lo  Farm Model With Project.........o                       ......     61
8. Agricultural Input and Output Prices
(Financial and Economic).............. 00000000*000000           63
9. Economic Rate of Return - First Method ...........     ........     66
10. Economic Rate of Return - Second Methotd......................      67
11.  Cost Recovery Analysis - High Price Scenario      ................  68
12.  Cost Recovery Analysis - Low Price Scenario ...................    69
13.  GOI Cash Outflows and  nflowso....... *.**o g.*.o*oooo.o. ooo@oo   70
Note: Project File contains additional supporting tables for the project
analysis (sec Annex 9 for contents of Project File).



-51 -                                ANX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SKALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Development
1.        Farmers who receive cattle wilL on average have under cultivation
the houselot garden (0.21 ha) and the 1.0 ha field crop area and they will not
have yet started cultivation of the 0.75 ha reserve crop area, which is
usually more distant, and frequently still under forest cover. Expected farm
development and cropping patterns (paras. 2.11-2.17) are based on observations
in existing transmigration areas, data from Baturaja, and ongoing research
work.  Key cropping paramete-s are summarized in Table 1, and with and without
farm models incorporating these parameters are set out in Tables 6 and 7.
Herd productivity analysis is presented in the project file, and summary
figures in the economic analysis in Table 9.
2.        The Houselot Garden.  Yields appear to be around 1.0 ton/ha for
padi, 0.7 tons/ha for maize, 0.5 tons/ha for peanuts, and 6 tons/ha for
cassava initially. Without project yields are usually maintained at these low
levels because the houselot garden benefits from crop residues and composted
wastes, thus reducing fertility decline. In the with project situation,
yields will increase markedly on this small area from the addition of cattle
manure. With project yields after five years are expected to reach 1.5
tons/ha padi, 1.0 tons/ha maize, 0.8 tons/ha peanuts and 10 tons/ha cassava.
In addition farmers quickly establish fruit trees (such as papaya, rambutan),
perennial vegetables (tree beans, yams) and other economic trees (kapok,
coffee, coconuts). It is expected that about 0.05 ha of the houselot garden
will be in forage after about five years in the with project case, usually
planted on the boundaries, on pathways, in gulleys, or in heavily shaded spots
jot suited for food crops.
3.        The Field Crop Area.  Normally, farmers plant the 1.0 ha field crop
area with the same intercropped rice/maize/cassava mix used in the houselot
garden, together with perennial fruit or vegetable trees around the bound-
aries. Yields at the start are similar to those in the early days of the
houselot garden (1.0 tons/ha for padi, 0.7 tons/ha for maize, 0.5 tons/ha
peanuts and for 6 tons/ha for cassava). Because labor is in short supply,
farmers do not plant all the available area in the dry season, normally
cropping up to about 0.5 ha. In the without project case, yields are sus-
tained initially by the free fertilizer supplies made available as part of the
three-year transmigration support package. After the third year (and most
participating farmers will be in their third year folloving settlement), agri-
cultural support services have rarely developed and few farmers use fertil-
izers. Without this, yields of annuals typically decline, though cassava is
less affected. Average yields in the without project situation will probably
stabilize at about 0.8 tons/ha padi, 0.5 tons/ha maize, 0.4 tons/ha peanuts
and 6 tons/ha cassava.



- 52 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 2
Table 1:  ICEY PARAMETERS IN FARM DEVELOPMENT
Future with-      Future
Present   out project   with project
(year 16)       (year 16)
(ha)
Cropped Area
House Lot Garden (0.21 ha)
Ricelmaizelcassava intercrop             0.20          0.10            0.10
Fruits and vegetables                    0.01          0.11            0.06
Dry season peanuts                       0.15          0.12            0.12
Forage                                    0            0               0.05
Field Crop Area (1.0 ha)
Rice/maize/cassava intercrop             0.70          0.90            0.70
Fruits and vegetabLes                     -            0.10            0.10
Dry season peanuts                       0.30          0.50            0.50
Forage                                    0            0               0.20
Reserve Crop Area (0.75 ha)
Perennial crop (rubber)                   0            0               0.75
Intercropped first two years
(tons/ha)
Yields
House Lot Garden
Intercropped rice                        1.0           1.0             1.5
Intercropped maize                       0.7           0.7             1.0
Intercropped cassava                     6.0           6.0            10.0
Dry season peanuts                       0.5           0.5             0.8
Field Crop Area
Intercropped rice                        1.0           0.8             1.2
Intercropped maize                       0.7           O.5             0.8
Intercropped cassava                     6.0           6.0             6.0
Dry season peanuts                       0.5           0.4             0.6
Reserve Crop Area
Intercropped rice (2 years only)          0            0               1.2
Perennial crop (rubber)                   0             0             0.75
4.        Most cattle manure will be used on the houselot garden, but with the
remainder and timely cultivation of the field crop area permitted by draft
power in the with project situation, yields will tend to rise slightly (rather
than decrease, as in the without project situation). Conservative assumptions
are that intercropped yields will stabilize at about 1.2 tons/ha padi; 0.8
tons/ha maize; 0.6 tons/ha peanuts and 6 tons/ha cassava. Farmers partici-



53 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
pating in the project are expected to progressively establish forage in the
field crop area, and it is assumed that 0.2 ha will be in forage by about year
5 which, together with the 0.05 ha forage in the houselot garden and crop
residues, should be enough to feed at full output by about year 8 some 3
animal units, or about 2 cows plus followers, as discussed in Annex 5.
5.        The Reserve Crop Area.  The reserve crop areas are typically 2-3 km
away from the houselots, and will frequently have to be cleared from forest.
They are likely to have many stumps and trunks following land felling which
will persist for some years. It is thought unlikeLy therefore that the cattle
will be used for cultivation of such land, nor, because of distance, will
manure be brought there, except to plant perennials.
6.        In the with project case, the most likely cropping scenario follow-
ing progressive clearing and burning (at about 0.25 ha/year) is that farmers
will gradually establish perennials such as coffee, rubber or coconuts.
First, farmers will plant a rough padi crop in the wet season, and the land
will remain fallow in the dry season. Perennials will be i.iterplanted in the
wet season crop, and the intercropped padi may be grown for about three
seasons. Thus, the whole secondary crop area will be planted in perennial
cash crops by about five years after participants receive a cow. It is
unlikely that forage will be grown in these areas, since it is far to cut and
carry daily.
7.        In the with project analysis, rubber grown under partially assisted
conditions 11 has been used to assess inputs and outputs from the secondary
crop area. However, it is likely that other perennials will be selected by
farmers in different locations. Coffee, coconuts and peppers wilL all be
grown, or cassava if local market outlets exist for processing dry cassava
into chips.
8.        Farm Inputs.  In both the with and without project situations,
initial farm inputs are the standard transmigrant package provided when
settlers arrive, including food crop and vegetable seeds, fruit tree and other
perennial crop seedlings, and a three year supply of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals. In the without project case, once these inputs have been fully
used up the farmer is likely to purchase inputs with his limited cash for the
houselot area, but not for the food crop area. In the with project case the
farmer uses most composted animal manure for the houselots, but some is still
left for use in the field crop area. In later years it is assumed that
perennial crops will be established in the secondary crop areas through exist-
ing credit programs which provide necessary inputs, including fertilizer.
Seeds and other planting materials are obtained from previous season crop
harvests.
9.        Labor Demand/Supply.  The average transmigrant family is comprised
of a husband and wife, and two or three young children. In the household's
early years on site the labor available for work on farm is Limited. The
1/   Second Smallholder Rubber Project, SAR No. 5059a-IND, October 1984.



54- -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4
farmer is able to provide about 400 labor days for on-farm work in the first
year on site. This is assumed to increase to about 600 labor days at full
development (year 9 on site) as the family grows older and children are able
to assist with farm work. Without draft power a farmer is usually able to
cultivate only his houselot garden area and the foodcrop area. The avail-
ability of draft power significantly decreases the amount of time needed for
land preparation, and enables the farmer to develop his reserve land with a
mix of food and cash crops.
Cattle Development
10.       Farmers who receive a cow must repay its cost by returning the first
two calves within six years to the project for redistribution. By the seventh
year most farmers will also have a newly born calf which they can keep. Based
on experience in the first project, calving rates from animals brought from
Sulawesi or Musa Tenggara are expected to reach 4OZ in the second year after
their arrival, rising by the fourth year to 80% when travel stress and
acclimatization have been overcome. Redistributed heifers are assumed to calf
at 701 in their third year, and 80X thereafter since they will stay in the
communities where they were born. Cattle mortality rates are lower and
calving rates are higher in the distribution areas than in the procurement
areas, because of better standards of animal care, health and nutrition in
distribution areas. Detailed herd projections in the procurement and
distribution areas used to derive incremental cattle productivity gains are
presented in the project file. Cattle fertility and mortality rates in both
areas are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: CATTLE PRODUCTIVITY COEFFICIENTS
In procurement areas    In distribution areas
(uncontrolled grazing         (individually
in large herds)             stable fed)
Calving Rate (Z)
Second year after distribution         n.a.                       40
Full development /a                     72                        80
Calf Mortality (Z)
Second year after distribution         n.a.                       15
Full development                        20                         5
Adult Mortality (Z)
Second year after distribution         n.a.                        5
Full development                         3                         2
n.a. Not applicable.
/a Four years after distribution and thereafter.



-55 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 5
11.       Initially, farmers will tend to raise whichever sex calves they have
to keep, so that they have a pair of working animals as soon as possible.
However, preference wilL be for working females because they are easier to
handle and also produce calves. Over time, participating farmers are expected
to move to a two cow herd plus followers. Males will normally be sold at about
2-3 years, together with 1-2 year old heifers not needed for cow replacement,
and this is an important source of cash for the farmer.
Farm Incomes
12.       In the without project case, farm incomes will reach about
Rp 335,000/family (US$324) or Rp 79,000 per capita (based on an average family
size of 4.5) at full development (year 9 on site). Incomes will rise further
to Rp 430,000/family (Rp 96,000 per capita) by year 16 with expected real
price changes. All income figures are expressed in mid-1985 US$ in Table 3
and exclude the value of family labor.
13.       In the with project case, family incomes are expected to reach about
Rp 670,000 (US$610) or Rp 150,000/capita after the return of offspring to the
Government, rising to over fp 1,000,000 (sp 220,000 per capita) by year 16
through the sale of rubber (or other cash crop) produced on the reserve crop
areas and from cattle sales. Food crop production and sales account for about
6OZ of gross income in year 9, with cattle sales accounting for the remaining
40X. By year 16, the fooderop contribution to total farm income is down to
about 4Z, while that for cattle sales is 201. The remaining 401 is realized
from perennial crop (rubber)-sales. Income changes are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: FARM INCOME CHANGES
(Constant US$)
Without project               With Project
;ear 9    Year 16           Year 9     Year 16
Gross Income
Food crops                  335        405              390         450
Cattle                                                  285          195
Rubber (cash crops)                                                  405
Total                      335        405              675        1,050
Less: Production costs         11         15               65           80
Net income                    324        390              610          970



-56-                                ANNEX 2
Page 6
Economic Rate of Return
14.       Conversion Factors.  All costs and benefits are expresed in mid-1985
values. An exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 1,100 has been used in the analysis.
15.       Agricultural Input and Output Prices.  Economic prices for interna-
tionally traded commodities have been derived using current Bank price projec-
tions.  Mon-traded commodity prices are based on appraisal estimates.  As
appropriate, GOI subsidies have been removed when deriving economic prices.
Financial prices are current market prices. Details are presented in Table 8.
16.       Economic Prices for Incremental Cattle Productivity Gains.  Price
projections are based on expected liveweights of different ages and sexes,
using current farmgate prices. Cattle markets are thin in most transmigration
areas, and there is at present a wide margin between farmgate prices and the
prices charged by traders in these areas, especially for breeding stock.
Indonesian cattle are not exported because of disease and export restric-
tions. Imported cattle have not been as successful for use as draft animals,
as described in Annex 3. The Bali breed cattle required by the project are
available only in Indonesia, and are best suited for smallholders because they
are small framed, good draft animals and fully adapted to local conditions.
Since Bali breed cattle are only available locally, the current financial
farmgate prices have been used for project analysis. Because of the
uncertainties in price changes over time, a constant value in real terms is
projected since it is felt that increasing supply in the distribution areas
will be balanced by greatly increased local demand as the population increases
through transmigration, and as incomes rise. Economic prices for cattle are
US$180 for heifers, US$240 for adult femaLes and US$300 for adult males in
distribution areas. In procurement areas, heifers are US$180, adult females
US$215 and adult males US$270. Differences in the economic price of cattle
between procurement and distribution areas are due to higher weights in adult
animals from better nutrition and health in distribution areas. The estimated
economic rate of return is not very sensitive if incremental livestock
productivity gains are significantly lower.
17.       Economic Cost of Livestock.  The shipment of livestock from the
procurement areas to project receiving areas represents a resource transfer,
and the price received by smallholder farmers selling cattle is treated as a
transfer payment. Thus, the only costs charged to the project in the economic
analysis are the costs involved with cattle procurement and distribution.
i8.       Project Investment Costs.  Certain components of project works,
while providing direct benefits to the project, will also provide benefits to
the overall livestock industry. These include the BCDIU disease investiga-
tions and the holding grounds which will be used also by cattle traders not
engaged in the project. For the economic analysis, BCDIU costs are excluded,
and 50X of holding ground costs (representing the share of project use) have
been charged to the project.
19.       Post Project Operating Costs.  COI inputs necessary to redistribute
offspring after project completion and provide services to farmers to achieve
full benefits are set out in Annex l. Post-project costs will be about US$2.7



-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 7
million p.a. initially (mid 1985 prices), falling steadily to US$1.1 million
in year 2005/6. These costs are included in the economic analysis.
20.       Benefit Streams.  Two benefit streams have been calculated for
project analysis, (a) benefits from increased crop output, and (b) benefits
from incremental cattle offtakes as a result of shifting cattle from low-pro-
ductivity sending areas to high-productivity receiving areas. The incremental
crop benefits are derived by applying the economic prices presented in Table 8
to the farm models (with and without project) shown in Tables 6 and 7. The
incremental cattle productivity gains capture the benefits from moving cattle
to better con4itions where they have greatly reduced calf mortality rates,
reduced adu;L mortality, and higher calving rates. Based on these assump-
tions, an economic rate of return of about 25% has been calculated for the
project (Table 9).
21.       The project has also been analyzed using a slightly different
approach in the economic analysis, by assuming that the future productivity of
cattle in the procurement areas is fully reflected in their market price. In
this analysis, the economic cost of cattle is included, but incremental cattle
offtakes are those projected in the distribution areas only. Other assump-
tions are the same as in the first analysis. As shown in Table 10, the
economic rate of return calculated on this basis is also 25%.
22.       Incremental crop benefits for the approximately 50,000 farmers
receiving offspring from the first smallholder cattle project from 1986/87 and
onwards are not included in either economic analysis, although support for
this redistribution is provided under the second project. Other benefits not
quantified include environmental benefits from reducing overgrazing in cattLe
procurement areas.



INDONE.SIA
SMALLKOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upland Settlers in Repelita III and IV in Project Provinces
('000 families)
Local parti-         Total
Official        cipants in         official                    Total               Tree crop
tranamigrants  official trans-       tranusmi-   Spontaneous  transmi- Reclaimed  programs   Up-
ex Java etc.  migration mites   gration site.  settlers         grants    swamps       (PIR)    lands
Reuelita III
Riau                        24.7             2.7               27.4          11.0        38.4      10.9          -      27.5
Jambi                       19.0             2.1               21.1           8.5        29,6       7.1          -      22.5
S. Sumatra                  77.3             R.6               85.9          35.8       122.7      43.7          -      79.0
Lampung                      6.3             0.7                7.0          20.O        27.0        -           -      27.0
Rengkulu                    11.6             1.3               12.9           5.2        18.1        -           -      18.1
W. Sumatra                   5.2             0.6                5.8           2.4         8.2        -           -       8.2
C. Sulawesi                  15.1            1.7               16.8           6.7        22.5        -           -      22.5
S. Sulawesi                  4.6             0.5                5.1           2.0         7.1        -           -       7.1
S.R. Sulawesi               16.6             1.8               18.4           7.4        25.8        -           -      25.8
Total                  180.4            20.0              200.4          99.0      299.4       61.7          -     237.7
Repelita TV
Riau                        57.4             6.4               63.8          28.0        91.8      20.0        20.0      51.8
Jambi                       30.6             8.1               38.7          21.0        59.7      10.0        20.0     29.7
S. Sumatra                  40.5             4.5               45.0          86.0       131.0      35.0        10.0     86.0
Lampung                       -             26.6               26.6           6.0        32.6      20.0         5.0      7.6
Rengkulu                     4.0             0.4                4.4          13.0        17.4        -         10.0      7.4
W. Sumatra                    3.6           13.3               16.9           6.0        22.9       5.0        10.0      7.9   s
C. Sulawesi                  7.2             0.8                8.0          17.0        25.0        -          5.n     20.0   f t
S. SulawusL                  4.5             0.5                5.0           5.0        1n.0        -          5.0      5.0  
S.E. Sulawesi                6.1             0.7                6.8          18.0        24.8        -          5.0     19.8
Total                  153.9            61.3              215.2         200.0      415.2       90.0       90.0    235.2



INDntNE8IA
SHALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROECT
Cattle Demand/Supply
(on head)
Cows and                          Number                Projected                  Total                 Cows
Cows and  offspring              vemates   families  Repelita   Repelitta        Cattle       females              to he
Cows de-  offspring from other  Total    supptied  settled          ITI       IV sett-    needed for  needed                  be distri-
livered       from   gov't pro-  female        to         In      settlers    lers on       settlers   (includ-    Cows    buted
under      first   grams in    cattle    trans-   Repelita   still            uplands       to end    ing IOZ    needed   under
first    project    Repelita   distri-   migrants  TII  on   awaiting   with ar-           Repelita   for local   for        second
project      /a          III      buted       Lb       uplands    cattle    able land          IV       farmers)   program  project
Riau                10.5        25.6        2.0       27.6        25.1      21.5        2.4        51.8          54.7        6n.2       25.1         13.5
Jambt                4,0         9.R        2,r       11.8        11.1      22.5       11.4        29*7          41.1        45.7       19.0          8.5      1
S. Sumatra          11.0        31.8        5.0       36.8        32.4      74q.       46.6        86.0         132.6       147.3       61.4         25.0    IA
Lampung              6.5        15.9        2.6       18.5        16.9      21.0       10.1         7.6          17.7        19.7        R.2          5.0
Rengkulu             6.0        14.7        1.0       IS.7        13,9      18.1        4.2         7.4           1.6        12.9        5.4          3.0
W. Sumatra            -           -          1.0       1.0         0.9       8.2        7.3         7.9          15.2        16.9        7.0          5.0
C. Sulawesi            -           -         1.0        1.0        0.9      22.5       21.6        20.0          41.6        46.2       19.3          5.n
R. Rulaweet           -            -         1.0        1.0         0.9      7.1        6.2         5.0          11.2        12.4        5.2          2.5
S.E. Sulawesi         -           -          5.0       5.0         4.5      25.R       21.3        19.8          41.1        45.7       19.n          5.0
Total         40.0        97.8       20.6      It3.4       106.6    237.7       131.1      235.2          366.3       407.0      169.6         76.5
/a  Assumed 240 beneficiaries from parent, P,, and P2 stock out of 10n parent cows.
/b  Assumed 9n0  to transmigrant,.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm  Model: Without Project
(Values  are  in  '000  Rp, constant 1985  prices)
1. FAFR  INPUTS AND OUTPUTS WiTHOUT PROJECI CASE
Note! fear I ts the settler's second year on site.
AREA CROPPED IHA)                                Year I   Year 2   fear 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   year 7   iear     Yeitr 9   Year 10  Year II  fear 12  Yars  13  Year 54  Year 15 Year 16
Housulat 1,25 he totali .21 ha net of hounel
RacelNaize/Casava Intercrop                    0.20      0.I5     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10
Fruits and Yegetables                           0.01      0.05     0.11      0.11     0.11      0.11      0.11     0.11      0.11      0.11     0.11      0.ll      0.11     0.11      0.11      0.11
Dry Season:  oroundnmts                         0.15     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12      0.12     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12
Field  C    11 ha totall
eiL  li/Cassava Initercrop
Ritel%li2e/Cessr Irwtercro,o                0.70     0.70      0.90     0.10      0.90      0.90     0.90      0.90      0.90     0,90      0.70      0.       0.        0.90      0.       0.90
ruiLsd   YoVenetailes                           Q D       0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10
cry uitasn   orndnuI                                     0.30      0.30      0.30     0.30      0.30      0.50     0.50      o.5o      o.50     o.5o      o.o       o.o0     os0O      0.50      0.5O
TOTAL 7 Crop Area  .6 ha totl)                      I         1.42      1.53     1.53      1.53      1.U                       .e 3        1         5.93     1.93      1.83      1.53     1.13 1113
CROP YIELDS IKG/HAI NET OF SEED)
Houselot
Intercrop Rice                                    500 1      000 1    000      G000      1000     1000      1000      1000     1000      1000      1000     1000      1000     1000      1000      1004
Intercrop Haiti                                    700       700      700       700       100      700       700       700      700       700      700       700       700      700       700       704
Intercrc:  Cassava                                6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     600       tO0        00                6000 tO
6roundm f(t500                                               500      NOO       500       500      500       500       500      5OO                          SOO 500  500  50S 500        S00       SW
Fieldcrog
Intercrop Rice                                    1000      1000      900       300      gO0       000 n      OO      SOO       300       BOO      Bo        800       Bo0      900       900       o00
Intencrop Maile                                    700       700      600       500       500      500       500      500       500       500      500       500       500      500       500       500
Intercrop Cascava                                 6000     6000      6000      6000     6000      6000      6000     60        6000      6000               60        60       60        6000      60
Groundnut                                          500       500      500       400       400      400       400       400      400       400       400      400       400       400      400       400
Secondary Crop Area                                  sRteetaiR  mndevelopedee
CROP PRONIICIII IN KG FRON hREA PLANTED SNET OF SEED)                                                                                                                                                                             C
area coefficient
Intercrop Rice                0.02                 739      697       672       607      607       672       672      672       672       672      672       672       672      672       672       672
Intercrop Maize               0.06                  38        36       33        29        2'       31        31        31       31        31        31       31        31        31       31        35
IntercraB Cassava             0.12                 648      612       649       648      649       720       720       720      720       720      720       720       720      720       720       720
6roemdnut                      1.00                225       210       210      IG0       590       too      260       260      260       260       260      260       260       260      260       26
PRCW4ED lIflS IKSI
llrem
Sounelot                                           21        25       21        21        21        25       21        21       25        25        25       25        25        21       25        21
Fieldcrop                                         500       50         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0 O
TSP
Houselat                                           21        21       25        25        25        25       25        25       25        25        21       21        21        21       21        21
Fteldcrop                                         100       to0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0 o                0         I
Pesticide
Houselot                                          0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4
Fieldrop                                            2         2        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        00                           0 o
Rodeeticide
Houselat                                          0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4
Faelkrop                                            2         2         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         a
ROSS VALUE OF MOODttOIIN 15000 RP)
Intercrop Rice                                     122       II5      III       500       100      134       134       134      134       134       157      157       157       157      157       157
Intercrop tllaae                                     5         4        4         4         4         4        4         4        4         4         4        4         4         4        4         4
lntercrop Cassava                                   27        26       27        27        27       30        30        30       30        30       30        30        30        30       30        30
Srounbuts                                           94        87        87       75        75        75      10       106       106      100       5O0      10       t06       t09      106       inx
Fruits and Veqetables                                 1       23        36       39        49        62       74        31       91       100       110       121      131       142      147       147
TOTAL                                                249       256      265       245       254      305       350       356      us        377       409      420       430       441      446       44U
ODUCTION COSTS f'000 ISS
Fertilizer                                          22        22         4        4         4         6        6         6         6        6         a        I         t         I         I        I
Pesticide                                            4         4         1        1         1         1        1         1         1        1         2         2        2         2        2         2
Rodenticide                                           r        I         I        I         1         2        2         :         2        2         3         3        3         3        3         I
Tool ad Equipteent Replaceent                        3         ;        3         3         3        3         3         3        3         3         3        3         3         3        3         3
TOTAL                                                 35        35         3        a         9        12       12        12        12       12        56        16       16        56        16       16
NET VALKU  PmrOiUClT  Ito HIRED tAIN lO000 NP        214       221       25?      236       246      293       338       3W        356      364       393       04       414       425       430      430
HIRED LAW          Rp 1200day                          11        6         7        5         2         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        e         0
NET VLIE PROIUCTION AFTER HIRED LANR                203       215       250      232       244       293      336       346       ;56      364       393      404       414        25      43        43.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CAT11E DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model: With Pro5ect
(Values are  in  'O0 Rp, constant 1985 prices)
MEACRE  PfD                                  Year I  Year 2   Yed 3   Year4   Year 5   TYu6   Year 7    ear 9   Year 9  Year 10  ter II Yer 12 fear 13 Ie  14  tear S! Var 16 
Houselot (.25 hal .21 ha fet of house)
Rice/Raize/Cassava Intetrop               0.20    0.IS    0.10       0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10    0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10    0.10      0.16
Fruits and Yrgetatles                     0.01     0.03     0.0         6 0.0O 0.06 0.06 0.04            0.0      O.0"     0.04    0.04     G.0 4 .04         0.04     0.04     0.01
FortN 1 .A                                         0.i0a       0.05  0.05    0.05      0.05     0.05     0.05    0.05      0.05     0.05    0.05    0.05    0.0        * 0.06 S  .ff
Drr- Sson: Groundnuts                     0.15    0.12      0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12    0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12    0.12      0.12     0.12
Field Crr 11 ha)
Ricellai ziCasava lIterErop               0.70     0.70     0.30     0.30     0.75     0.70     0.70     0.70     0.70    0.70     0.70     0.70     0.70    0.70    0.70       0.70
Fruits and Vegetables                              0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10    0.10     0.10     0.10    0.10      0.10     0.10
For  s1.A.    l.A.                                          1.1.    0.10      6.15    0.20      0.20     0.20    0.20     0.20    0.20      0.20    0.20    0.20       0.20     0.20
it Season:  ran=Wuts                      0.30    0.30    0.50       0.50    0.50      0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50        0.50     0.50     0.50    0.50      0.50     0.50
leceaarisCrp Area (.75 ha)
tecRnjd lrl ttrog kt  {.5 W)0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00     0.25     0.50     0.50     0.25    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    e.00      0.o 0    0.0
Rubtne                                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.25     0.5C     0.75     0.75     0.7n     0.75    0.75     0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75
ru.L                                            1.36     1.42     2.73     2.63     2.33    2.U3    3.00      2.U3     2.50     2.50     2.5     2.50     2.50     2.50     2.53     2.50
CROP YIELDS 1(KSH4i NET OF SEED)
Ibinlot
Intercrop Rice                                1000    2000    1200       1400    2500    I500    2500        1500    1500      1500     50       500     1500     1500        ISM    500
lntercrop  eaize                               700      700      30o      9O      I0OO     1000    2O0O      2000     2000    1000    1000    2000    200         1000      00  lO 100
Intercrop Cassava                             6000      000    0        g0      20000    1000 0   ONO 10000         lo00 00    10000    10000   1505    10000    20000    200 1 I0"0
Groundoift                                     500      500      400      700      too      Boo      300      No0    300        No0      I"0      no0   3no        50                0
Fieldcrop
Intrtcrop RIce                                2000    2000    2000       2200    1200      220      1200    1200    1200       2u 22            1200    20        1200      20      1200
1htercrop flaize                               700      700     -VW~    B00        300      No       Bo00o              o      No0no             "O       go       me       HO       me
Intwcrop Cassava                             6&00      6000    4000      4000    40        60000    0       400      4000     400      4000    4000    400        40        e0      0
krw.ndut                                       500      500      500      400      40C      600       00      400      400       00      00       "00      me      4e        00      40
e-uary Crop Area
Intercrop Ric                                    0        0        0        0     1200    1200    1200    1200          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Rubber                                           0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      200     300      400      57       t6       75
CAW P    IOUCllIN 1 K FROM AREA MiUTED INE1 Of SEED)
area crefficient
intercrop Ricr             v. .2               733      697      754      634     2262     1412    1412      1112      all,    112      322      612      312      612      312      112
Intercrep Naute            0.06                 30       36       33       44       42       40       40       40       40      40       40       40       40       40       40       40
Intrcrop Cassava           0.12                 40      612     U44       472      640      624      624     424       624     424      424 U     24      424      424      624      624
Croundut                    2.00               225      210      322      314      394      39n      394      394      394      394      394     394      39       39n       34      39n
Rubber                      .00                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      150      225     300      425      513      563
CATTLE SALES (KS LIVEIIE6HT)                                                                   24                48      314     129       145      205     1lo      m        221      214
MMRCHISED INIPUS IKG)
Urea
llounelt                                       21        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        o
Fieldcrop                                      200     200        0        0      200      200      200      100      100      100      100      100     1OO      100      100      200
tecondary Crop                               N.A.    NlA.    N.A.    N.A.           7       39       32       75       43        0        0        0        0       0        0        O
Isp
Houselot                                       21       21       21       21       21       21       21       21       21       21       21      21       21       21       21       21
Fleldcroo                                     t00                                 100 0  0  too  200  200    200      t00      100      100     toO      IbO      !00      100      100
Secondary Crop                               NA.      M.A.    N.A.      N. A.      14       27       62       43       35        0       0        0        0        0        0        0
Pesticide
Houseltt                                      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4
Fieldcrop                                       2        2        0        0        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2        2        2
Secondary Crop                               N.A      M. A. N.A.  1. MA.          L.    1 A.    N l.A       N.A.    N.A.    Nl.A.    N.A.    N.1A.    N.A.        l.A.     l.A.    N.A.
Rodenticid.
Hualot                                        0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4       0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4
Fieldkrop                                       2        2        0        0        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2        2        2                             <lN
Secondar' Crop                               .0. A    N.1.    N..    N.A.    N.A.    N ..          N.A.    P.A.    N.0.    N .1.    N.A.    5.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.
RP for Ruhber crop                             .0.  NL A.    N 0.    5.L.           35       35       35        0        0       0         0       0        0        0        0        0
RV  f or Rubber Erop                          N.A.    5.A.    N.A.       N. ..       0       13       33       33       20        0        4       0        0        0        0        O
Kitsertt. for Rubber crop                     .0. A    N.A.    5.0. L        .       0        7       15       15        7        0        0        0        0       0        0        0



Year I   Vedr 2   Year 3   Year 4   Vear 5   Yedr &   Year 7   Year o   Year 9   Year I0  Year              Year 12  Yar 13  Year 14  Year  S year 15u
6ill VIALU  G. FIOIUTION ('000  NP)
Intercrop Rice                                      122       225       224       23   1   92         292       29        222       262       262      269       In?       In9       19        InI       III
lnterc;op lai:e                                       5          4        5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5        5         5         5         5         5
lntercrop Cassava                                     27       26        27        20        28        26        26        26        26        26        26       26        26        26        26        26
Iro mdoe                                              94        II      1234      14        16        165       165       1265      1265      165       1         16        15 1655            15        165
Fruits and Veqetables                                  2        20       21         30       37        47        S6        62        70        76        64        92       2P,       106       112      112
Rubber                                                                                                                                                  III       III       237      336       405       445
Cattle Bills                                                                                           24         0        46       314       289       265       115       III      223       221       226
TOTAL                                                  241      253       311       361       426       549       534       526       742       623       753       640      903      1052      1123      1251
PROaUCIteu COS1S ('000 AP)
Fortilizer                                            22       20          2         2       24        41        62        57        41        33        44        44        44       44        44        44
Feiticide                                              4         4         1         1        4         7         1         7         7         7        12        12        12        12        22        2
bEmnticide                                             7         7         I         I         7       12        22        12        12        52        17        17        17        17        17        27
fool I Equipmt
Replcen,ncua    lu3                                           15        3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3        3         3         3
f   lpm    fcwR'AbwPlIAing ad Taping     0         0         0         0aI 2                        21  I     0                            3666666
E0TI       #35                                                  46         6         6       i@        6l        96        79        78        s5       III        62        62        62       n2        62
NET VALIE PUDUCTIOM  DEFONE HIRED LAUON                214       207       311       355      376       469       43q       449       613       546      .642       159       622       972      1042      2076
Hirud Labor               Np      1200 Idly             It         6         2         6                   5        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         5         5         5
let Value of Production After Hired Labor              203       201       309       346       310      464       439       449       673       568       642       759       C21 5U             16037     1072
122.2UCRNEINTAL IENEFIT TO FARNER FEll PROJECT ('00.0 Rol
lot Vdlue of Production Mithout Project                203       225       250       232      244       293       336       346       356        44       393       404       414       425       430       430
Net Value of Protdction lith Project                   203       201       309      346       370       464       439       449       673       54        642       759       021       166      1037      1072
IKNCRENIRI1L PIJECT IEFIT                                0       -14       59       115       127       170       202       104       317       204       241       355       407       54t       607      642
kote:  Veat I refers to settler's second year on site.  Cattle are distributed in Year 2 or during the
settler's third Vear on site in the modol.
N11



-63-                                   Annex 2
Table 8
Page 1 of 3
In OSIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Input and Output Prices (Financial and Economic)
Price Structures for Agricultural Outputs /a
(1985 constant prices)
Operation   1985-89    1990-94    1995+
Rice
Export price, Thai 5S broken, FOB Bangkok
(US$/ton)                                                      235         346        334
Quality adjustment /b                               9O1           211        311        300
Freight and insurance                                +             32         32         32
CIF price, Palembang                                 -            243        343        332
Port handling, storage and losses /c                 +             26         26         26
Transfer to wholesal.rs                              +              4          4          4
Transfer mills to wholesalers                                       3          3          3
Ex-mLll price, Palembang                             -            270        370        359
Conversion to paddy                                 65Z           176        241        233
Killing and cleaning costs                           -              7          7          7
Paddy transport to Palembang by wholesaler           -                        24         24
Economic farm-gate price (US$/ton)                   -            145        210        202
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) J'                  -            160        231        223
(Financial farm-gate price, RpikgT                   *           (165)      (200)      (223)
Maize
Export price, FOB US Gulf port (US$/ton)                          126        115        115
Adusted export price, FOB Palemb=g /e                +             15         15         15
Port handling                                                      10         10         10
Transport farm to wholesaler and port                              21         21         21
Economic farm-gate price (US$/ton)                    -           110         99         99
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) /d                  -            121        109        109
(Financial farm-gate price. Rp/kgT                   -           (125)      (125)      (125)
Cassava
Economic and financial farm-gatu price
US$/ton                                                         40          40         40
Rp/kg /d                                                        42          42         42



- 64 -
Annex 2
Table 8
Page 2 of 3
Operation   1985-89    1990-94    1995+
Groundnut
Economic and financial farm-gate price
US$Ston                                                         392        392        392
Rp/kg /d                                                       416         416        416
Livestock
Economic and financial farm-gate price
USS/ton                                                       1,000      1,000      1,000
Rplkg /d                                                      1,100      1,100      i,lo0
Rubber
Financial Prices
RSSI, CIF NY (liter/kg)                                         119        131        14n
RSST, FOB Jakarta (liter/kg) If                                 106        117        125
SIR 20, FOB Jakarta (liter/kg) /g                                90         99        106
SIR 20, FOR Jakarta (Rp/kg)                                    990       1,089      1,165
SIR 20, ex-factory (Rp/kg) /h                                  960       1,n56      1,130
SIR 20, farm-gate (Rp/kg) /i-                                  (614)      (676)      (791)
Economic Prices
SIR 20, financial farm-gate (Rp/kg)                            614         676        791
Plus taxes:  MPO (WABA) Li                         +             15         16         17
Sales /k                              +            19         21         23
MPO (WAPU) 11                         +            29         32         34
SIR 20, economic farm-gate (Rp/kg)                 m           677         745       865
Price Structures for Agricultural Inputs
Urea
World export price, FOB Europe (USS/ton)                          190        255        265
Ex-factory price Palembang Ia                        +             16         16         16
Handling and distribution to retail level            +             12         12         12
Storage and transfer to farm                         +              5          5          5
Economic farm-gate price (USS/ton)                   -            223        288        298
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) /d                   -          245         317        328
(Financial farm-gate price, Rp/kg)                                (90)      (150)     (200)
TSP
World export price, FOB Florida (USS/ton)                         150        173        173
Freight and insurance to Palembang                   +             35         35         35
Handling and distribution to Palembang               +             13         13         13
Storage and transfer to farm                         +             5           5          5
Economic farm-gate price (US$/ton)                                203        226        226
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) /d                               223        249        249
(Financial farm-gate price, Rp/kg)                                (9n)      (150)      (200)



-65-
Annex 2
Table 8
Page 3 of 3
Operation   1985-89    1990-94    1995+
Pesticides
Economic farm-gate price (USS/to )                                7.0         7.0        7.0
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) /d                             6,600       6,600      6,600
(Financial farm-gate price, Rp/kg)                             (1,500)    (3,000)   (5,000)
Rodenticides
Economic farm-gate price (USS/ton)                              10.60       10.60      10.60
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg) /d                             9,980       9,980      9,980
(Financial farm-gate price, iZp/kg)                            (3,000)    (5,000)   (79000)
Hired Unskilled Labor
Economic price - head of household TrS$Iday                      0.87        0.87       0.87
Rp/day Id                   960         960       960
(Financial price US$/day                                        (1.09)      (1.09)    (1.09)
Rpfday) /d                                  (1,200)    (1,200)   (1,200)
/a  All except cassava, groundmut and livestock based on World Bank price projections as
presented in the Half-Yearlv Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts - December 1984.
/b  As per IBRD/AFP}A 1979 paper.
!c  Derived from BULOG records.
7d  Converted at an exchange rate of USS1.00 - Rp 1,100.
le  Includes a US$15 transport premium for Asian markets.
7if Less 11% of CIF NY for shipping.
Ij Less 15% of RSSI CIF NY for inferior quality.
/h  Less 3% of FOB Jakarta for charges from factory to port.
fi  Transport, processing, taxes and middlemen assumed to take 36% of ex-factory (1985-94)
and 30Z of ex-factory (1995+).
/S 1.5% of FOR.
Wk  2% of ex-factory.
71  32 of ex-factory.
7m  US$16/ton transport premium for Asian markets.



INDONESIA
SMALLUOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EconomLc Analysis. Flrst Mathod /1
(1985 prices, Rp Mlllon)
--..---...----...-..-..-- Costs-lmni ...........    ....................                        -efits ---------------------------
Less: Incresental
Crop Benefits                          Labor froa        Labor frau   Net Oenefit        Not Denefit
Cattle          Other        Operating   Total        Initial       Plus Redistri-                   Initald         Initidl and   From Initial    From Initial &ad
"ear    Procureent 21 lnvestment 3/ Costs 4/  Costs 51   Distribution 61   bution 7/    Livestock 91 Distribution 9/ Redistribution Oistribution    Redistribution
1985/96           606              0             0       e06              -10               -30           0              16                 16           -020             -620
1996/87          3359           2266          2340      7964               40                40           0             -26                -26          -7950            -1950
1W9716N          3358            621          2737      6916              943               938         -80            -329               -326          -6382            -6384
1999119          4029            log          2465      7002            2156               2114       -422             -183               -184          -5451            -5455
1999190          4299            S36          2045      6879            2963               3109        -771             362                305          -4325            -4231
M019901          4701            542          2284     7152             4478               5254        -876             754                626          -2971            -2522
1991/92                                       2382      2382            5782               7114        -572             695                578           3513            4UO
1992193                                       2385      2385            5285               6963      -1493              958               1043           2374             4157
1943/94                                       2363      2393             3022              4240        -507             586                n9             120             2240
1994/95                                       2378      2376            2751               4326       2719            -967                -514           2125             4152
IM95696                                       2371      2371             1699              2243       4925           -2390               -1364           1363             2933
1196197                                       2370      2370            2704               2525       6709            -2789              -2373           4254             4"1
1997/98                                       15I2      2582            56167              5394       12785          -2144               -2241          14746            14356
19q9/99                                       1576       1578          11233              11969       18665            -948              -1831          27312            21225
1919,00                                       1573      1573           17590              19944      20615              554               -04           37246            31142
2000/01                                       1570       1570          23251              27169       2864             2247                U2           49792            52015          a
2001/02                                        4191      991           27689              33047       32339            3405               1923          62441            66319
2002/03                                        991       991            17590             38299       34101            4010               2916          54709            74365
2001'04                                        191       991           23211              41258       34447            4010               3743          62717            80451
204/05                                         99        991           21600              42424       37433            4010               4586         137062 10/       152M7 10/
Econonic Rate of Return froo lath Initial Cattle Distributlon and Redistribution:                        251
11 S9. text, Annex 2 for description of sethodology.
2' Cattle procurement costs include only transport costi, and xticlude governmt taxes. Costs estimated to be Rp 220,000/heifer and Rp 240,000/bull.
3 Excluding the BCDIU compcnent and half of the civil warhs for quardntine facilities, as these components can be used on an industry wide basis.
41 Operating costs after the project ends dre those derived in Anneo 1, Table il.
5i 'axus have been eliminated froo total costs.
. Crop benefits are the incremental crop benefits from the use of coa  oanure and draft powr.  Agricultural inputs and outputs have been adjusted frem                                 Fl
financial to economic values as shoen in Annex 2, Table 9.
7i Crop benefits Including redistribution of Fl and F2 qeneratin .
E' Valued at increeental herd offtdte in without project and with project situation.
9  Incremental labor required for proj.t.  Shadow pficed at .8 of mjfket wage (Rp 1200/dayl or Rp 960id4y.
10! Includes residual herd value estimated at Ro oE,942,000,0fh).



INDONESIA
SHALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
pconouLc AnalysL, Second Nethad 11
l1935prLce*, Rp A;lllon)
-------  ---..........-Costs- ..............    ................................... knefits -------E;-----g-------t----------
Loss:  Incremetal
Crop knefits                           Libor fro         Laer from    It leuf it    let lknfit
Cattle          Other        Operating    Total          Initial        Plus Rdistri-                   Initial         Initial  nd  Fru loitial   From Initial ad
Year   Procureent 2/ levestent S/    Costs  4/  Costs  S/ Distribution 6f    bution 7/  Livestock  I/ Distribution 9/1 Redistribution Distrihutiae    adistributio
1"5/U           1366              0             0        1366              -30                -30          0               16                  16       -1380           -1310
191619          5693           2266          2340       10299               40                 40          0              -26                -26       -10215          -10211
1"7/"           5693            21          2737        M251               43                936          O             -329               -326        -3               - l9
1I/l            6631            506          2465        9104             2156               2154          0             -1t                 -114       -7631            -733
IM19            7207            536          2045        '168             2963               3106          0              362                 305       -6543            -6455
1910/91         7970            542          2294       10196             41676              5254        So7              74                 62.6       -4917            -452N
1911/92                                      2382        2362             5732               7114       1613              685                573         5690            6993
1m/93                                        2385        2385             52115              690        1730              95                 1043        557              7370
I"3194                                       2363        2303             3022               4240       3425              58u                6OR         4652             6172
191M9                                        2376        2371             21                  .2        74                                               tIll7 14i
5915/94                           23~~~~~~~171    2371                                                                                                        3626 J  23  14W
1916/9                                       2370t       2370             2704              2KI5       237              -2739              -2373        1036             low
19"7/91                                      1562        1562             5467               5394      19296            -2144              -2241        21256            211Ut
191/99                                       1578        1576            11233               1&99      25553             -948              -1331        34261            34114
9O0                                          1573        151             17590              144        26021              554               -94         44592            443
z200/1l                                      1570        1570            23251              27166      33662             2247                 623       57611            59104
2001/02                                       9I          "9             2141               33047      40                3405               M1            07702          745 
2002/03                                       "I          "I             1790               36299      42612             4010               2A          U4U21            736
2003/04                                       "I          "1             23251              412M       4569              4010                3743        7196             9"100
2004/05                                       991         "I             27688              42424      47172             4010               49         230114 10/       2451" 101
Economic Rate of Return frog ith Initial Cattle Distribution and Redistribution:                          232
1/ Instead of valuing livestock benefits stming fro  productivity increste as the increental value of el d of fitake i  the with ad withot
project situation Iprocwat nd distribution areait the value of liveitoct in the pfocurmnt urea vs include  as a project cost md the
value of future offta.e in the distribution arfa ws Included as a btnfit.  I' Tale 9, l9ane  2 the value of livntock benefits, as captured as
the increental herd offtae in the with ad without project situation.  Only the costs assoiated with shipping and tranWortisg the cattle
were included as a projKt cost.   both uthods yield similar rates of return 12621.
2/ Cattle procurent casts only exclude governot tamls.
/ Eccluding the KDIU comoent ad half of the civil wrks for quaratine fIciliti, am these componnts can  e used an a  indstry side basis.
4  Operating costs Ifter the project ends ire those  derived i a hn       , 1    iale It.
51 Tues have been elieioated from total csts.
/ Crea  benefits are the incremtal crop benefits Iro  the use of c   mnure and draft powr.  Agricultural imputs ad outputs have be   adjuste  from
finncial to economc  ilue  as sho in AInuu  2, Tale I.
7/ Crop benefits iriudiolg rWistributlea of Fl and F2 generation.
O/ Value of Yearly herd alftfke with the project.                                                                                                                                        El!
9/ Incrueental labor required for project.  Shadow prid at .a of ariet wage  Rp 1200/dayS or  p 960/day.
10/ Inc3udes residual standing herd value estiotd at b  1529235,000.



- 68 -
lMONENA                             imc 2
BqwmJ]ndwad1e miqb       tw&pjs              Mtge U1
Ct Fei6y hAlyis - Hig Wim 38do 1/
in rdd-]9B5 pJ Hillik
PIject Eizd 21        -*
makni~t Qsqmd*g Pro                       Y
cawF                      alf;           C;f    MU= 41
6q"          1408                                     1408       42
L W87        589      33B7      238          9Em                SO
1987/88      58;      ]307     359                   1          519
9 9          7042      568                           10436        3
o9w           7m    60   zw                          lam   sN
19"0         726       608     2365                  1m03      1377
191                                      29773        2977    Z7377
14"                                      2972         2972     46X3
Lg_                                      29642%                 45gL
L%/17                                    2961         2!961    4I07
1997R14                                  1978         3978     3792
19"                           im~~~~~1T     197L     2335
19/00                                     95          1965      9B3
ZMAD                                     196          1]96      147
2XD/U2                                   1239     O    3          0
PA                                       129          1239        0
20"                           im~~~~~13     1239        0
206                                      1239         1239        0
t Prget U          104 Dsmut Ebb   488      1934
I/ HEish     am Flo 230,000 1r I8 iuth old bed    ad Pp 190,000 fvr 18 mmh old aWe&
21 2zal po*ct ba iPus hC9R L         1L
4' A Tho  inEz lxrh 1w Tle 1L     dta~



- 69 -
S AOR                              Am= 2
a.L9hlerCtt     w1an PaFa              Ed:e 1.2
P3tFauL Anly5s -Ijw Bfix *asi I/
in midl9I5 PQ MLiml
E   Peci V'    Ept;et
maba           qmmig  Pid                T1a
Odt    Cte                   3/        Cst  Dibe4
69ru1                                                140 8   42
79o          59       338      23B                  1i         SBD
il9B588   S                    3      1      5m49gB
19"       7W    568  206                         I6         ml
90"          7S}2      6D4     znw                  i 
L9 1    E l6           608   236 L           S     3     8
LQg                                     2977         2WJ      2157
3qq7/                                   29U          29E1     2995
1%04                           m            ~2W97  363
LIK  2527                                                      M
196v                                    2964         2964     3%9
79m                                     9U           29E      3463
1997t%                                  in7          in7      2980
L-w                                     290          1965      7U
20-                                     ]9           192       1D6
2Ooh2                                  i23           1239       G
20                                      13           129O
'04                                     i            1239 O
2V                                      3239         129O
Net  lLm   U,w  10% Dsr Fb: 48              l76
nx  Fe=ey Ml                         2%
3yIo        are I;p 0,000 fm  18     oli<sd bEdr  ard Ep 150,000 for 18 mr*b  z
y/In laajlu   both cdt   saks and tum



ZNDONBSA
SItALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
GOI Cash Inflovs and Outflows /1
Ts4illion of Rp, Current Prices)
SWRCES Of FUNH                                               9llICAIII  OF FUN1S
........... ..................................... ......... ............. *.............. ............................. ........ ......................... ._ ....................  .... ........_ ...
Internal Sources    Esternal Sources             Recurrent
Inflos      Disburseets                  Eosts:                                     gOt Service 4/                 Total    lTOTl                  Culative
fro cattle  Woeld              Project   1"1/92           ol-borne         Nwld link                  IFIIO           Dt   MILICATION  Net Cub           Caal
fear        lixis 2/  sales 3/    lank    IFO         Costs  to 21/06   project coats  Pricipal  Interest   Frincipal  Interest  Service   OF FUIM                Flov        Flow
I95 /6            44                                    I,465                         ,46i                    132                     33      165        1(61                  (358021
196 /117        651                     0     220      13,355                       13,135                    264                     70      334       33a689    (12,9)   114 400)
1921 Inla       s9 f                  90     330      12 619                       11 409                    305                     79      384       13002    (II IN)    (25 588)
1l1i  /89        467         59%   6,050   2,970       13749                         4:72,                    625                    137      762       14:511      (4:421    1300t7)
19M9 /90        412        1,44 6,210   2,200          14,51                         6017 onI,9                                      229    1,423       151         15,6731   (35,901
If"  191        457        2 50         7040   27200   17,05116                                  1,13        ,693         440        287    3,59        20,650      (,49)   (441391
1990 192          7        250   7,04   2,200                         14            (4,4363      2,347      2,110          o0        331    5,6         10,51 2H329            41,09)
1992                       3,560   7,940   2,970                   5,16             (5,724)      2,347      2,567         no         388    6,12        11,348       4,732     37,077
1993 19,19    72                             ,0,420                                  5,420       2,347      2,69          80         405    6,30        11,751      (5,359)   (42,236)
1994 195                   7,24                                    5,679             ,679       2,347       2464          No         370    6,060       11,740      A4,446    146,682)
1996 /97                   7,293                                   3,94              5,46        2,341      2,21          KG         34    5,790        11,737      (4,51    (51,251
3995 /96                  *7,2                                     6,2 383           1,2387     2, 347      1,915         810O       2194   5,523       11,7185    (4,45)'   (V3,721
M19791                      ,590                                   434                37I2'4 760                          NO         264     21          965        (05) (15)
198 /9"                    4261                                    451458                       237         1:525         No         229    41           O:N)(:11              6408
2000 /00                     291 4,793 84,793                                                    2,34        1,21         NO'4PA1 ,0                                 7691 (I1)I
119  /00                     ,906                                 504,24                         ,34        3,056         no         158    49441        945         9,9) (09251
2001 102                                                           3 332             3,32        2,347        921         ago        123    4,1711       7503       (7503)   (N 421)
2002 /03                                                           3,499             3,41        2,347        587           O         Ne    3,03         7400       (7,400)   (95,327)
2003 /04                                                           3 673             3,673       2,347        352         No          53    3 631        7,305         7,305)  (03, !321
2004 /05                                                           3,857             3,1         2,347         311        no0         to    3,362         ,213      37,211)  (110,50)
2005 /06                                                           4,050             4,050       1,173          0         444          0    1,613        5,3         5 ,663)  1116,0131
TOTAL        2,540       54,671  35,200  !3,200       72,806    70,543             94,949      35,200     25,787      13,200      4,068   70,275      221,623   1116,0131  111t,0131
Note: Negtive nuiers are in parentheses.
Il Cash flow figurus ciclude 11 and Ml handling ftts.
2! lao rates are assmei  to he St    n cattle procureent, l01 value added
tax on dnd civil wrhks  vehicles, Lquipent, civil works.
3  Cattit  ail5s refer to the culled heifers and sales sold 4roe the second  reject offspring.
Cattle sales from the First SulIholdmr Cattle project are sot inclded dere.
Cash inlofs J  rao    the pdyback of the F2 generation ure also include.  Conservative prict
price projections wre ved:  Up 180,00/heifer and Pp I50,000/ull l(id-1915), adjusted for projected inflation.
4  Financial calculations are indicative only  and are based upon the following notional loan
trns. The IWrld lani loan is payable in 20 yeirs, with a years Irice period on the repaysent of prinicipall at the
stmdard varible rate (a fiure of 101 per amnue, payable uen-nnvally, is used in these
roc tions).  Camltoet charue of .752 per  naus on the umdishursed  mount of the loan
Rs to accrue January 19.    IFAN  loIn projecteO to be at a 41 per inus interest rate, paid
seei-annuellv, with a  oemitamot fee of .52.  Lun iS payable in 20 years, with a 5 yeor iratc
period on the repaymnt of principal in these calculations.



-71 -
I!UONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 3: CATTLE PROCUREMENT AND DISTRIBUTION
Table of Contents
Page No.
Cattle Breeds in Indonesia ...... ........       .........................   72
Analysis of Bali Cattle Resources .................................          73
Breeding Cattle Supplies and Demand ..........         ....................  74
Cattle Procurement         .............*........................ .......    75
Cattle Distribution and Redistribution under the First IFAD
Smallholder Cattle Project ...          ................................   77
Cattle Distribution and Redistribution Under the Proposed
Smallholder Cattle Project .............................................   78
List of Tables
1. Cattle Procurement by Province During the First IFAD and
Proposed Projects s. o.e..e., s.e.c........Ce......   .......        80
2. Estimated Supply of Breeding Heifers (1-2 years)
by Province         ..............................................   81
3. Performance of Cattle Distributed by First IFAD Smallholder
Cattle Project (as of November 1984) ......     ................     82
4. First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project: Cattle Distribution
and Projected Redistribution of Offspring by Year by
83
5. Proposed Smallholder Cattle Development Project: Cattle
Distribution and Projected Redistribution of Offspring
by Year by Province           ......................................  84
Note: Project File contains additional tables on cattle procurement and
distribution (see Annex 9 for contents of Project File).



- 72-                              ANEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Procurement and Distribution
Cattle Breeds in Indonesia
1.        Bali cattle are a fertile, disease resistant and strong draft
animal, which originate from Bali Island. They are derived from the Banteng
or local wild cattle (Bos sondaicus)
2.        The value of Bali cattle is their high fecundity and the reason the
Bali cattle populations of South Sulawesi and Timor have developed into size-
able herds from comparatively recent introductions is attributable mainLy to
this fact. Bali cattle will conceive a calf under most seasonal conditions,
in contrast to Bos indicus and Bos taurus type cattle which tend to develop
lactational anoestrus and do not cycle during periods of nutritional stress or
seasonal feed shortages. However, also in contrast to other cattle breeds,
Bali cattle milk production ceases under poor nutritional conditions, result-
ing in high celf mortalities. Their small size and ability to survive under
conditions of poor nutrition, their quick response to improved feeding and
their ability to grow and fatten on lower quality feeds, their high fecundity
and their ability as a draft animal make them suitable for raising under
smallholder farm conditions.
3.        Due to the presence of Jembrana disease, the inter-island export of
breeding stock from Bali is now prohibited. An ongoing Bali breed improvement
scheme is making very good progress in increasing body weight, fertility, and
disease resistance by mass seLection and by identification of proven sires on
Bali. When a confirmed test for identification of Jembrana carriers is known,
the Bali breed improvement program could provide superior Bali bulls required
by the proposed project. Until then the improvement of the Bali breed in
Sumatra depends upon the selection of better cattle in procurement areas and
the strict culling of redistributed females under the proposed project.
4.        Like the Bali animals, Madura cattle are derived from Local wild
Banteng cattle, and are thought to have developed from the crossing of long-
ago introduced Zebu (Bos indicus) with local animals. Madura cattle seem to
have many similarities with a MaLaysian breed (Kedah Kelanton) and other Asian
Zebus. They originate from Madura Island where imports are prohibited to keep
the breed pure. The island is overpopulated with cattle, and excess breeding
stock are available. Madura animals are 10-20% larger than Bali, but have a
reputation of low fertility. In the First Smallholder Cattle Project's
receiving provinces, where nutritional standards are higher than in Madura,
the breed shows good production, although not so high as Bali animals.
5.        Ongole cattle predominate on the islands of Java and Sumba.  They
are large framed animals, and are particularly useful as draft animals for



- 73 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
transport, and land preparation in the heavy soils of Java. However, compared
to Bali and Madura cattle, fecundity is low. Under good conditions, it is
rare for an Ongole cow to produce more than two calves over a three year
period, and calving rates as low as 20-25Z are common in heavily populated
areas such as East Java.
6.        Various other breeds such as Brahman and Brahman cross, Sahiwal,
Droughtmaster and Holstein Freisian have been imported into the country over
the years from Holland, Australia and New Zealand. These animals are large
and with just a few exceptions, their performance under smallholder farming
conditions in Indonesia has been disappointing.
Analysis of Bali Cattle Resources
7.        South Sulawesi - The 1983/84 DGLS data show a total cattle
population of 1.2 million cattle in South Sulawesi, and an annual herd growth
of around 12Z. The annual offtake is about 30,000 head, for breeding and
slaughter through interprovincial export trade plus local slaughter which is
difficult to monitor. The cattle population is derived mainly from introduced
Bali cattle with some Ongole blood. Bali cattle were introduced over a period
from 1890 to 1960. The population was almost decimated during and after World
War II. Numbers have been building up steadily since, and only during the
last five years has an annual grazing shortage appeared during the dry
season. Thus, nutritional status has been high, and coupled with inoculations
for Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and other disease controls, has led to high
calving rates and sustained levels of offtake both of slaughter and breeding
stock rising from 12,000 head exported in 1978 to 30,000 in 1983. Of these,
some 10,000 rising to 17,000 annually were breeding stock. Unless greater
numbers are taken off the herd will increase to a level where sufficient
fodder is unavailable and productivity, size and condition will greatly
decline. An estimated 32,000 1-2 year old heifers could be sold annually
without reducing the current provincial herd size (see Cattle Procurement and
Distribution Tables in the Project File).
8.        South Sulawesi has one efficient outlet for cattle at Pare Pare port
on the east coast where almost all female stock and a large proportion of
slaughter stock are processed, quarantined and shipped. The port quarantine
for 500 head and the nearby holding ground (200 ha), which has a permanent
roofed and concrete floored holding ground/quarantine building for 500 head
were developed in the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project. Under the
proposed smallholder cattle project, a further 500 head holding ground will be
constructed. These facilities will allow the export of 3-5,000 head of
breeding stock per month. The proposed project will also upgrade an existing
500 head quarantine/holding ground at Buni on the west coast of South Sulawesi
for processing and shipping stock to South East Sulawesi Province. A
temporary station at Palopo on the northwest coast of South Sulawesi will be
upgraded for expanding project activities to Central Sulawesi.
9.        East Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Timur, NTT) - Most of the cattle
in NTT are Bali cattle on Timor Island, although there is an almost pure herd
of Ongole on the neighboring Sumba Island. There are about 400,000 head of
Bali cattle in the four Timor Kabupatens. Kupang head is the main export



_ 74 _                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
outlet.  The breeding cattle are mostly raised in rangeland areas in a few
large herds. Their owners show little interest in improving management and
productivity. Nutrition is poor, as reflected in low weaning percentages and
growth rates. There is also an old established intensive smallholder cattle
system based on the feeding of a very high quality legume, Leucaena
leucocephala. Mature male cattle are purchased from Lhe rangeland areas, and
fattened for market on an individual animal cut-and-carry feed basis.
10.       The productivity of Bali cattle raised under the extensive rangeland
system is extremely poor. Calf mortality Levels are 25% or higher under
uncontrolled range conditions, and there is no doubt that heifers raised in
Sumatra transmigrant settlements are more productive than those raised on the
rangelands of Timor.
11.       Some 13,000 head of breeding females could be available for export
from NTT without reducing present herd size (see Cattle Procurement and
Distribution Tables in Project File). There is a reasonable quarantine
facility nezt to Kupang Port which processes some 40,000 head of mostly
slaughter animals annualLy. The First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project
upgraded the entrance road and facilities. The proposed project will increase
the area served by concrete floors and roofs, and will provide a groundwater
supply for drinking. One additional 500 herd capacity holding
ground/quarantine will be built at Atapupu Port in Timor.
12.       West Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Barat, NTB) -Lombok Island has an
established Bali herd, mostly raised by smallholders in the highly fertile
central strip. The cattle population of the three kabupatens on Lombok Island
in 1983 was officially recorded as 223,770 and growing at 5.5% per year. The
neighboring island of Sumbawa is short of livestock and Lombok breeding cattle
are being transferred there by the Provincial Government. It is estimated
that Lombok could provide more than 3,000 head annually for this program and
also a further 1,000 for export to tran:migration areas (see Cattle
Procurement and Distribution Tables in Project File). Construction has
started on one 500 head quarantine station at Lember in the first IFAD cattle
project and a further unit will be built in the second year of the proposed
cattLe project. The island cattle breeders and the farmers have a very effi-
cient method of holding cattle prior to quarantine/shipment whereby animals
are bought by the contractor but not assembled in holding facilities until
required.  Instead they are dispersed in one's and two's in nearhy villages
and fed and tended by local farm families on a weekly payment basis.
13.       Madura and East Java - Of the 2.5 million cattle in East Java,
617,000 are Madura cattle, confined to Madura Island. The other East Java
cattle are Ongoles. Both Madura Island and mainland East Java have intense
human population pressures, which has caused a substantial increase in cul-
tivation intensity and reduced feed resources available for cattle.
Breeding Cattle Supplies and Demand
14.       The Ministry of Agriculture controls the number of breeding and
slaughter cattle exported from each province. A yearly allocation of cattle
which can be shipped out is prepared by the Provincial Government after



- 75                                 ANNEX 3
Page 4
considering local herd growth, slaughter requirements and internal demand for
breeding stock.  Provinces with breeding stock export potential are South
Sulawesi, NTB, NTT, Bali, East Java and Aceh. Bali and East Java (except
Madura) are quarantined at present because of endemic Jembrana disease in
Bali, and a 1983 outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in East Java. Aceh cattle
exhibit low fertility and small size, and are not considered suitable for
procurement.
15.       The analysis of desirable breeding heifer offtakes indicates that
about 56,000 heifers a year could be exported from South Sulawesi and Nusa
Tenggara (see Cattle Procurement and Distribution Tables in Project File). It
is expected that at least 'O% of these cattle will be of the Bali breed,
suitable for the proposed project (or about 50,000 per year). Under the first
IFAD cattle project, some 12,000 breeding heifers were bought in 1985/86
(Table 1). The project demand of about 76,500 head will be about 12,500
during 1986/87 and 1987/88 rising to about 15,000 in the following two years
and a peak of 17,500 in 1990/91. The annual demand for the ADB assisted
second Kalimantan livestock project is about 5,000 Bali cattle per year, and
other GOI programs are expected to need another 3-5,000 head/year. Total
demand is therefore forecast at about 22,000 head once the second smallholder
cattle project starts rising to 27,500 by 1990/91 (Table 2). Thus project
demand can easily fit expected supply levels, and present interprovincial
export allocations (para. 14) are expected to be raised as the Sulawesi 'nd
Nusa Tenggara head offtakes increase and as demand increases.
Cattle Procurement
16.       Under the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development Project, single
contracts for breeding heifers and bulls were let by the shipload to qualified
traders, selected under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Traders were paid on
the basis of animals delivered and in good order one week after arrival on the
individual recipient farms. This particular method of making traders respon-
sible for all phases of cattle purchase, shipment and distribution has
achieved encouraging results. Traders purchase the cattle in the supply area,
gather them, transport them to the quarantine station, support them in quaran-
tine, arrange for the ship, ship them, support them while being held in the
holding ground in the recipient province, transport them to the transmigration
settlement, distribute them and supervise them for seven days after deliv-
ery. Twenty percent (20%) of the total contract price is advanced at contract
signing, 30% is paid at the time of shipping, 45% after delivery to the farmer
and the remaining 5% seven days after farm delivery. Tenders are let for the
supply of cattle in 1,100 head lots (1,000 females, 100 males) which are sup-
plied in shipments of 550 or 1,100 to the individual settlements. Large and
well organized traders, who are normaly involved in inter-provincial slaughter
cattle trade, bid for the overall contracts, and use smallholder traders/
contractors in the various levels of the marketing and transport chains. Con-
tract prices of the first 4,000 head of breeding females procured under the
first IFAD project averaged Rp 341,500/head; the next 8,000 head, procured in
1983, had an average contract price of Rp 336,500; and the last tender for
11,000 head to be delivered in 1984 shows that costs may average about
Rp 310,000/head.



- 76 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 5
17.       The project exercises quality control at all stages starting when
the trader presents his cattle for inspection at an agreed holding ground.
PKU and PMO staff together with a Committee appointed by DGLS accept or reject
animals according to specifications concerning size (104 cm at withers except
in NTB 102 cm), age (18-24 months), good condition, and absence of visable
disease. After inspection, accepted animals are firebranded with the project
identification brand and contract number. The use of chemical branding has
been dropped in the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project because of smearing
and fading.
18.       All cattle for interisland export, including the accepted and
branded project consignments, are quarantined in DGLS designated quarantine
stations for 14 days for breeding stock during which time tney are vaccinated
for Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Anthrax and in South Sulawesi, treated for
Tripanosomiasis and tested for Brucella aoortus as well. Cattle traders are
responsible for feeding and watering, and the cost of any treatment. Procure-
ment contracts also specify types and quantities of drugs the contractors must
supply during procurement and distribution.
19.       The First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development Project dropped the
right of re-inspection between quarantine and ship, but this would be
reinstated in the proposed project. Cattle are then shipped to the
distribution provinces. In the first IFAD smallholder cattle project, loss of
condition and occasional serious deaths were experienced due to inadequate and
erratic shipping services. In 1983/84, the Ministry of Shipping refused
operating Licenses for Local ships over 25 years old, which resuLted in a
temporary shortage for shipping cattle. The 1984/85 procurement program
required traders to hire a foreign purpose-built cattle ship contracted by a
local company.
20.       Under the proposed project, contractors will be able to charter only
shipping with the following minimum standards for cattle:
(a) space per head - 0.75 x 1.5 x 1.75 meters
(b) adequate forced ventilation, loading and unloading ramps, and
(c) space to carry feed and water of daily requirements as below, plus a
three-day reserve over expected shipping times.
feed/head/day 2 kg concentrate
6 kg hay or 30 kg grass
water/head/day 30 liters
21.       B) establishing minimum standards and "prequalifying" vessels, it is
expected that more local ships will be modified to convey cattle, or other
purpose-built vessels will be chartered. Other measures to be agreed with COI
to reduce shipping losses include that at all stages of procurement and
distribution, contractors must provide an animal health worker whose experi-
ence and qualifications are acceptable to the DCLS veterinary services.
Project managers will enforce contract provisions that contractors have a
minimum agreed stock of medicines and vaccines, and will have the right to



-77                                ANNEX 3
Page 6
inspect and reject stock immediately prior to shipping, in addition to other
specified times. The project managers will also more closely supervise the
procurement process, particularLy likely shipping delays, and ensure that con-
tractors take appropriate measures if delays occur.
22.       Consignments of cattle are unloaded at ports in the distribution
provinces, and held in properly protected holding ground/quarantine facilities
with roofs and concrete floors. Ill and exhausted animals are held until
either rejected or cured, but the majority of animals are moved by truck to be
distributed to the farmer as quickly as possible.
23.       A final brand number is applied before distribution to farmers
together with as ear-tag. Proper branding and identification is essential for
control of all project stock and their owners, repayment, deaths, and redis-
tribution. Cattle are finally accepted by the PMU and the farmers after seven
days on the farm. Up to this point the contractor must replace any deaths or
rejects.
Cattle Distribution and Redistribution under the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle
Development Project
24.       Number of Cattle Distributed Under the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle
Development Project. The numbers of cattle already distributed, and expected
through the remainder of the first project, are shown in Table 4.
Distribution has been mainly in Riau (7,100 head) and South Sumatra (8,800).
Lampung, Bangkulu and Jambi have to date received 3,300 head, 4,400 and 1,100
head respectively.
25.       Cattle Performance in Recipier.? Areas.  Cattle performance in
distribution areas to date has been impressive (Table 3). Mortality rates for
the first 12,000 distributed cattle have been reasonably low, averaging 5% in
the first year on site and 4X in the second year on site. Calving rates went
from 6% during the first year on site, 40% in the second, and are now about
80Z in the third year. Since the heifers were 18-24 months old at delivery,
no calves were expected during their first year on site, and in the second
year a ca'ving rate of 40% is not surprising given acclimatization and the
youth of the bulls distributed.
26.       Distribution by the contractor is monitored by the responsible pro-
vincial PHU reinforced by staff from the Procurement Division of PMO. Animals
can be rejected by project staff (and farmers) up to the end of the seven day
period. Rejections are generally due to wounds, broken legs and excessive
stress leading to near death. Initial losses with the farmer depend on accu-
mulated stress on the journey but are minimal due to the high level of care
and attention the smallholder .nd his family pays to the feeding and health of
his animal.
27.       Most transmigrants in Sumatra are Javanese, Sundanese or Balinese,
mostly with asperience in raising cattle and using them for draft. This
experience is demonstrated in the very high standard of management the cattle
receive from their new owners, a very important factor in the successful
utilization of the distributed cattle.



- 78-                              ANNE-  3
Page 7
28.       Redistribution of the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development
Project Offspring. During the 1984/85 season it is estimated that some 3,200
heifers will be available for redistribution (Table 4) from the first
smallholder cattle project, rising to a total of about 63,500 by 1995/96.
Heifers will be redistributed to immediate neighbors in the village. This
will ensure the imediate interest and help Ly the neighbor when the calf is
born, and cut down losses for unrecorded calves. It is estimated that about
some lOZ of heifers will be culled when returned to the project. They will be
sold, together with all male calves returned to the project, to traders for
slaughter or fattening.
Cattle Distribution and Redistribution Under The Proposed Project
29.       A total of 76,500 females will be distributed by the proposed cattle
project, and this will lead to some 110,570 offspring to be redistributed, in
total servicing some 187,000 beneficiaries (Table 5).
30.       Together with cattle supplied and redistributed by the First IFAD
Smallholder Cattle Project, some 284,000 farmers will have received cattle by
the year 2,000.
31.       Distribution Provinces.  The five Distribution Provinces in the
first project were Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, Lampung and Benkulu. Project
II will have three new provinces added, Central, South and South East
Sulawesi. Thus South Sulawesi will become both a supplying and a receiving
province as the cattle population is concentrated in the southern parts with
the receiving areas being tr3nsmigration units in the north.
32.       South Sumatra - The first consignments of cattle were sent to the
Southern parts of the province. At first, processing facilities were poor
without any protected holding grounds. However, during the first project a
full quarantine station at Palembang and holding grounds at Lubak Lingau and
Tanj;,ng Raja were built and a total of 7,700 head distributed. The Province
now has sufficienc cattle processing facilities to accept the 4,000 head
annually proposed for the project.
33.       Riau - During the first project some 7,100 head were distributed and
a protected quarantine facility built. This will bc sufficient for the
2-3,000 head annually proposed for the project.
34.       Jambi - A 500 head quarantine station is being built at Jambi town
during the 1984/85 period and a further 500 head in the project.  Jambi also
makes use of Palembang Port quarantine and the Marcoyoso (200 ha) holding
ground constructed under the IDA Transmigration II Project. Some 2,200 head
were distributed in the first project and around 2,200 annually in the second.
35.       Bengkulu - A 500 head protected quarantine is being constructed
during the 1984/85 period in Project I and a further unit in Project II. Some
4,400 head were distributed in Project I and around 2,000 head annually are
proposed for Project II.



- 79                               ANNEX 3
Page 8
36.       Lampung Province - The Bank-supported Transmigration I Project
distributed cattle and built two holding grounds at Baturaja and Way Abung,
but these were not available to the First IFAD Cattle Development Project.
However, DCLS funds constructed a quarantine unit near Lanpung town and the
project distributed 3,300 head during the last two years. The proposed cattle
project will construct no new civil works, and proposes only to distribute
about 2,200 head annually.
37.       New Provinces Added. Of the four new provinces added to the previous
distribution program West Sumatra is similar to the other Sumatra Provinces,
has a deep water port, a newly constructed, floored and roofed quarantine.
South, Central and South East Sulawesi however, have different problems and
advantages. Being contiguous to South Sulawesi (their procurement area) sea
journeys are short, varying from 2 to 3 days with much less stress on the
cattle. However, the transmigration areas are smaller and further apart (as
far as 280 km from the processing facility) thus properly placed holding
grounds are more important, particularly in Central Sulawesi.
38.       Central Sulawesi.  Settlement areas are widespread on the north,
east and on both sides of the southeast peninsula. Plans are not finalized as
to numbers for each, but Toili-Toili on the north coast can be supplied
directly from Pare-Pare by sea with cattle unloaded directly onto trucks for
delivery to farmers. Pantoloan port (near Palu, the capital) requires a
permanent quarantine for 500 head for indirect use by the project for sick
beasts and project overflow. Some 6,000 head of slaughter stock are exported
annually through this port. The main holding ground will be at Toboli (500
head, 75 ha available), 80 km directly east from Pantoloan on the east
coast. From there, good roads reach north and south to the Tau Palambulu area
(near Kaparga), 210 km to the north and also south to around Poso. A further
area around Toili can be reached from Luwuk or Batui port on a good road, some
150 km.
39.       South East Sulawesi.  An ongoing cattle supply program funded by the
Islamic Bank uses Buni, a small port on the west coast of South Sulawesi as
the cattle collection point and quarantine before a two-day sea voyage to
Kolata where a fully protected 500 head quarantinetholding ground already
exists to serve mainland farmers. The project would use the same route by
upgrading the Buni quarantine to full standards for 500 head. This facility
would also supply by landing craft island settlement areas where 50% of the
provincial population resides including transmigration areas.
40.       South Sulawesi.  The two main transmigration areas are Luwu, 100 km
up the west coast from Pare-Pare and Mamuju on the west coast, also on a good
road 150 km north or Palopo port on the west coast. Luwu can easily be sup-
plied directly from Pare-Pare holding ground. Luwu must await the upgrading
of the quarantine at Palopo to a full facility for 500 head.
41.       New Provinces' Civil Works.  Cattle deliveries will depend on the
construction of cattle processing facilities, which should be completed in
year one. The PMO will initiate action the previous year, both in budget
provision and in planning permission and tendering by the relevant provinces.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Procurement by Province During the First IFAD and Proposed Prolects /1
Proposed Cattle
Cattle Procured by Province during the                                   Procureeent by Province durinq the
First IFAD Project, 1981/82 to 195/96              Total Procured       Proposed Project, 1906197 to 1990/91         Total Procured
during the                                                      During Proposed  TOTAL FRON
Province            19CI/92  1992/93  1983194  1994/95  1995/96   First Project*   1996/97  1997/99  1909/89  1989990  1990/91    ProjKt##   BOTH PROJECTS
South Suliwesi                                            (projected)
Females             3,000    4,000    4,450    5,000    4,000           20,450           7,500    7,500    9,500    9,500   11,000          44,000       64, 40
Hales                  500      300       450       500       400         2,150            750       00        350      200       300        2,000        41150
Total             3,500    4,300    4,900    5,500    4,400           22,600          9,250    7,900    9,850    9,700   11,300          46:000       68,*00
N,.r.r
Feeales                       4,000    3,000    3,000    2,500           12,500          3,000    3,000    3,500    3,500    3,500          16,500       29,000
males                           300       300       300       250         1,150            300       150       150      150       150          900        2,050
Total                       4,300    3,300    3,300    2,750          13,650          3,300    3,150    3,650    3,650    3,450           17,400      31,050
Losbok (N.T.B.)
Fer3les                                 3,000    4,000    2,000          9,000           1,000    1,000    2,000    2,000    2,000           l,000       17,000
Hales                                     300       400       200           900            200       100        50       50        50          350        1,250 4
total                                3,300    4,400    2,200           9,900          1,100    1,100    2,050    2,050    2,050           9,350        10,250            8
Madura IEast Java)
Females             1,000                                                 1,000          1,000    2,000    1,000    1,000    1,000           5,000        6,000
Hales                  200                                                  100            100       100       100      100       100          SOO          600
Total             1,100                                                1,100           1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100           5,500        6,600
South Sueatera
Females
Hales                                                                                                400       700      850       900        2,950        2,850
Total                                                                                             400       700       650       900        2,950        2,650
La pun1
Hales                                                                                                100       150      250       250          750          750
Total                                                                                              100      150       250       250          750          750
Total
Females             4,000    9,000   10,450   12,000    81500           42,950          122500   12,500   15,000   16,000   17,500          73,500      l126450
Hales                 600       600    1,050    1,200        950          4,300          1,250    1,250    1,500    1,600    1,750           71,350      11,650
Total             4,600    9,600   11,500   13,200    9,350           47,250         13,750   13,750   16,500   17,600   19,250          90,950       122,100            ,..!
0'E
a  Includes 3300 cattle procured during the First IFAD Sealholder Cattle Development Project period
but financed retroactively by the proposed project. Total cattle
financed by the first project equals 43,950.
te Eicludes 3300 cattle financed by second project and procured in 1905/86.
Total numbers of cattle financed by second project equals 94,l50.
/f Farmer dlstribution follows procurement with a la of up to one year.



Annex 3
Table 2
- 81 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Supply of Breeding Heifers
(1-2 years) By Province
Estimates     Presnt GOI alloca-
Estimated axsl   a=wl supply        tim for Inter-
supply 1-2 yer    of Bali and     irsula expr of   Mfdzam a:nml
ProvIxe                     leifers/a    Mau.  beifers    beifers for 1985    project deaid
Said, SuLlmesi             33,000           29,700             25,000            11,000
NIT                        13,000           11,700              8,000             3,500
ITgk (NIB)                 10,000           9,OO               3,000             2,O0
%dura (East Java)      ot estimted,                             8,100             1,000
-    project
promwe  fiaum
'd.w  is very mal
Total                 56,000           50,400              44,100            16,500
/a  OfftaEe pedssible sdtho  redrirg present berd.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance of Cattle Distributed by First Smaliholder Cattle Project
(as of Nov. 1984)
Con-   Distri-   No. of             First year on site                        Second year on site
Recipient            tract  bution   cows dis-             Mbrtality     Total cattle               Mbrtality      Total cattle
province              no.    date    tributed  Calving  Cows  Calves   Cows   Calves  Calving  Cows  Calves   Cows   Calves
- - - -    (z)   - - - -- - - --(X)   - - - -
South Sumatra         001     12/81     1,000     7.8    5.8       -        942    78     41.7    2.5    5.1         918   447
South Sumatra         002    04/82      1,000     7.0    7.2    15.7        928    59     51.1    2.3    3.4         907   515
Rlau                  003    08/82      1,000     5.1    7.1    13.7        929    44     38.8    8.2    5.2         852   191   t
Riau                  004    07182      1,000     3.9    5.3      5.1      947    37      30.9    6.1    2.1         889   323
South Sumatra         005    08183      1,000     4.9    4.2      0.5       958    47
Lampung               006    07/83      1,000    11.3    4.4      4.4-     956   106
Riau                  007    07/83      1,000     4.2    5.4      2.4       946    41
South Sumatra         008    08/83      1,000     4.9    4.2      8.1       958    45
Bengkulu              009    07/83      1,000     3.8    7.2    15.8        928    32
Riau                  010    06/83      1,000     2.1    3.8       -        962    21
South Sumatra         011    06/83      1,000    12.4    6.0      6.5       940   116
Bengkulu             012    09/83       1,000     4.3    4.8'   20.9       952    34
Total/Average                    12,000      6.0    5.5      7.8   11,346   660
Source: First cattle project records, 1984.
KUf



INDONESIA
SMALLHLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development Project:
Cattle Distrlbution and Projected Redistribution of Offspring by Year by Province /1
ALL CATTLE                   HEIFERS ONLY
(EQUIY TO NO. OF
Riau                Jaibi           South Sumatera         Liapung                Iangkulu            Sub-total         TOTAL    SENEFICIARIESI
Initial    Re-    Initial    Re-    Initial    Re-    Initial    Re-    Initial    Re-    Initial    Re-                                Initial     Re-    TOTAL
Year      digtrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib. distrib.                             distrib. distrib.
1991/92      2200          0         0         0      2400          0         0          0         0         0      4600          0      4600        4182          0   4182
1982/83      2200          0         0         0      3100          0      10O          0     2200          0      90oo          0      8600        7919          0   7911
1903194      2700        337      2200         0      2200        367      2200          0     2200          0    11500        704    12204         10455       640  11094
1984/85      2200        691      2200         0      4440       1079      2200        166     2200        337    13200       2475      15675       12000      2250  14250
1985M6       2200       1621         0       337      2200       1631      1650       614          0       691      6050      5293    11343          5500      4812  10312
1994/97          0      1946         0       691          0      2448         0      1216          0      1544         0      8047       8047            0     7316   7316
1997/18          0     2237          0      1209          0      2780         0      1598          0      1493         0      9305       9305           0      9459   9459         o
1996/89          0      2261         0       929          0      3002         0      1479          0      1197         0      87         9867            0     9061   8061        w
1999/90          0     2098          0       544          0     2530          0      1257          0       990         0      7419       7419           0      6745   6745
1990191          0      1615         0       715          0      2042         0      1119          0      1106         0      6679       6679            0     6072   6072
1I91/92                 1450                 939                 1897                1146                 1050         0      6382      6382            0      5902   5002
1992/93                 1140                 603                 [Sol                 959                  645         0      4849       4849           0      4409   4409
1993194                  655                 252                  956                 547                  252         0      2562      2562            0      2329   2329
1994/95                  252                  42                  294                 200                   42         0       929        929            0       754    754
1995/96                   42                   0                   42                  31                    0         0        115       115           0        104    104
Total        11500    16622        4400      6360      14300    20669       7150     10335       6600      9540    43950    63524   107476           39955    57751  97706
/1. Tot1a cattle distribution figures are drawn Mrom Annex 3, Table 1.  Actual distribution
may follov procurement with an up to l2-ionth lao,.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Smallh[dQr CatCle Development Project:
Cattle Distribution and Projected Redistribution of Offspring by Year by Province
IU  rATTLE            EIEfE1  ay1
'If          i.      intib.    9e-    Initial pS      -    r  1                      r             Y     t       '    C"l' kIrzd   3@t             il         SE,  ulntiul                                   TOIA      5N1  ttutitIhI
IfiItI,I    Ir-    Irilirl I t-    Irllal    Re-                                                   3.lt1~eInitil    I-    Initial it-    Iitial  i   InitIil    ih- IIilltl  Re. .      Initial      e-                 Initial    R-    1I?E
V'r     distrib. distrii. distrib. istrib. distrfib  ditl   lstrib.  distrib, distrib.tfii distrii. distrfit. dIsttlW. distribidsti          , distrib.  distrit,  dist tib  di strib  flrb.    distrik. distrib.                distrik. distrib
15116         550         0       550         A      it"0         0       550         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       550         0         0         0          330           0     3300         300          0  30
1,''          o200        0      2200         0      4400         0      2200         0      1350         0       550         0         0         0       5,0         0         0 e                 13750         0    11750         125O          0  1250
19171,4      70          14      1100        84      4400       II       2200 M4             1100         0      1100         0        50         C       550        U4       550         0         1310        505  14255          1250        4593 5
Ilolou    3'            475     0loo        411      4400       910      2200       415      1100       12 2     1100         4      1650         0        50       223      1100         0         14500      2935    19435        35"00      249   1449
l'9';99      1300      1054      20 t                4400      2109      220t      1Q4       1100       504     IM0        307      tIso       UA        SSt       I0 110               14         174 0      b54      24349        1160      5se4  23914
19904q1      300       t7l1      2200      194       4400      3226      2200      1613      1100.      936      1650       6t       1650       3I       1100       455      3650       f07         19250    1440       ?734        119        953   21
1"1'4?              2332                123                 31713               1117                 97m 143                                 U32                 522                 H0               0  J5057        307             *     11t70     11                  1
11417,1                U2972               1136                4400                229                 lilt                1001                32231                is                  925              0    lb33       I IV0           04   1
3104                   033                 7024                0393                                    99                  (                                        7 m6                 410 1124 1  ro H  e     U      17201            *    15U0l 1i
1994't5                2U1                 1132                4113                2039                lllb 1033                               1.20                 725                 14              0     5416    15496             0    1t407  0157
3099*                ,nIlls             3                   1604                50                    13 e41                                415                  642             e      376      I1749           0    15673  373
3994'9'                191                1059                2129                IS0                  691                 n1?                  14                 401                 674              0    14447    14447             *     949      49
l1,41M                 14317                65                23 13092                                 U46                 67                  1"                  35                  U47              0     WO        e5e             0     6
141199                  945                 324                1290                 645                 323                 421                 434                 25                  421              0     5u44      5434            0      4940    40
1999/0                   371                 252                 S05                 25Z                 12                  fi                  I"                  116                 f7               0     2177      2117            0       91      99
2O011041                   3                  42                  33                  42                  21                  31                  31                  21                  31              0       3su        6            *         2    sn
tota1        141"      21464      9350    13515    23100    3330         13550    14495       6050       745      5500      n50       sse       n5t       3         5         4400      434 W4150   121632   29672                    76505   11474 I104
ill6I



- 85 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Annex 4: Disease Investigation and
Control Services
Page No.
Disease Control Services *****e** *.........**t***.***..**........     86
Disease Investigation and Research ...............................     87
Jembrana Disease and the Bali
Cattle Disease Investigation Unit .............................     87
Jembrana Disease ...........  ......................................   87
Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit ...........................     88
F'iture Operations of BCDIU       *.......................................  89



-86-                                 ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SNALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPHMENT PROJECT
Disease Investigation and Control Services
Disease Control Services
1.        The field service of the Provincial Livestock Services controls
outbreaks of economicalLy important diseases such as foot-and-mouth,
Baemorrhagic Septicaemis (HS), surra (Tripanosomiasis), anthrax, mucosal
catarrhal fever (MCF) and Jembrana disease of Bali cattle.  This is done by
prohibition of cattle movement between islands (foot-and-mouth and Jembrana
disease), vaccination and quarantine. Surra is treated by drugs, and MCF by
banning sheep (the carrier) from distribution areas.
2.        Field staff of the Provincial Livestock Service provide advice on
livestock health and vaccination services. Outbreaks of disease which cannot
be diagnosed in the field are referred to the nearest Type C Disease
Investigation Center (DIC). Type C DICs are established at kabupaten level
and consist of a rudimentary laboratory under the conteol of a livestock high
school graduate. Specimens requiring further analysis for diagnosis may be
referred on to a Type B or Type A DIC. Type B DICs are located at provincial
level and consist of basic diagnostic equipment under the control of a univer-
sity graduate and laboratory assistants with high school education. Should
the Type C and B laboratories not be able to carry out the diagnosis, speci-
mens are forwarded to one of the seven ritional Type A DICs, administered
nationally by the DCLS. Type A DICs are staffed by 12 specialized university
graduates plus trained laboratory staff and a   fully equipped to carry out
comprehensive diagnosis and disease investigations. The regional DICs also
carry out a training function for provincial livestock service staff.
3.        The DIC at Bali (where the Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit is
situated) and at Lampung are of particular importance to the project.  By law
all cattle for inter-island export must be quarantined for 14 days, which is
the minimum time to detect foot-and-mouth disease. This was introduced when
foot-and-mouth was endemic, and is now retained as a precautionary measure.
It allows continuous observation of health and condition, provides an oppor-
tunity to carry out vaccinations for Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and anthrax, and
enables brands to be properly checked.
4.        The animal health services are hampered in their efforts by lack of
transport and the sufficient supply of essential drugs. Accor4ingly, the
project will supply one CB radio network per PMU to support the diagnostic and
treatment requirements of the project. The SATCAS teams will observe animals
under their supervision and treat illness within their capabilities, or call
on the mobile units in more severe cases.
5.        In the First IFA) SmaLlholder Cattle Development Project, apart from
initial deaths after cattle were delivered to farmers (caused by cumulative



-87 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 2
travelling stress plus sudden changes in types of fodder) the most important
diseases were Tripanosomiasis, Piroplasmosis and Bovine Kalignant Catarrhal
Fever. However, the number of cases was relatively small with deaths at only
1-2Z annually after the first year. Potentially, foot-and-mouth and Jembrana
disease could be of great importance, but no outbreaks have been experienced
in the first project nor is their incidence likely. Sumatra and Sulawesi are
free of both and further protected by the banning of cattLe importations from
Java and Bali.
Disease Investigation and Research
6.        Animal health research is controlled by the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD). Within AARD, the Center for Animal Research
and Development is responsible for coordinating research in the Livestock
sector. Research is carried out by two institutes located in Bogor. The
Institute for Livestock Research and Development (Balai Penelitian
Pengembangen Peternakan or BP3), which has received substantial Australian
bilateral development assistance, is responsible for livestock systems,
breeding and nutritional research. The Institute for Animal Disease Research
CBalai Penelitian Penyakit 8ewan or BAKITWAN) is responsible for study and
research into livestock diseases.
7.        The main thrust of current veterinary services is in producing
vaccine and maintaining a mass preventive inoculation campaign against foot-
and-mouth disease in Java, following the outbreak in 1982. No new cases have
been diagnosed since December, 1983. Another program concerns Haemorrhagic
Septicaemia. Sufficient funds are not available to cover the nation with an
eradication campaign, so 80-100Z annual coverage by inoculation is being given
on an island-by-island basis. BAKITWAN is the designated "Regional Institute
for Investigating Tripanosomiasis" and its varying resistance to drugs.
Jembrana Disease and the Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit
8.        An outbreak of an undiagnosed disease at Banyuwangi in East Java in
1978, near the ferry crossing from Bali Island, posed the possibility that
Jembrana disease, a severe disease of Bali cattle confined to Bali Island, may
be present in East Java and that Ongoles purchased in East Java may introduce
Jembrana-like disease into susceptible Bali cattle populations in Sumatra.
Funds were provided under the first project to investigate the carrier state
of Ongole cattle for Jembrana disease. A previous outbreak of Jembrana-Like
disease at Rama Dewa in Lampung, where more than 700 cattLe died in a Bali
cattle population totalling 3,OCO head, highlighted the dangers of introducing
possible infected or carrier animals into susceptible populations. The Rama
Dewa outbreak followed immediately after the introduction of Bali cattle from
Bali in 1976, though Jembrana disease was never positively diagnosed.
9.        Jembrana Disease.  Jembrana disease first appeared in a major
epizootic on Bali in 1964, when an estimated 26,000 head of Bali cattle died
over a three year period. It was first diagnosed as rinderpest. A second
epizootiL, though less severe, occurred in 1982 when, in some areas, mortality
rates of 151 to 20Z ware recorded.  The disease has since settled down and
although serious outbreaks do occur on the island from time to time, on the



- 88 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 3
average about 1% of the cattle population are reported each year to be affec-
ted by the disease. It is suspected however that this is heavily under-
reported by farmers with sick animals who sell them for slaughter. Production
losses from increased calf mortality, abortion, bodyweight loss and inability
to work would also be very high. As a result of Jembrana disease, the export
of breeding cattle from Bali is prohibited.
10.       The course of Jembrana disease has not been positively identified
and a methodology for its diagnosis has not been fully developed. Nor is the
epidemiology, including the immunological aspects and carrier states fully
understood. Thus it has not been possible to positively identify simiLar
diseases at Banyuwangi and Rama Dewa as Jembrana disease, aLthough they are
very similar. Both occur in Bali cattle, and their start can be traced back
to the introduction of Bali cattle into established Bali cattle populations.
11.       Considerable investigatory work into the aetiology and epidemiology
of Jembrana disease has been done at BAKITWAN at Bogor and at the DIC at
Denpasar. Findings by Bogor workers during investigation of Bali cattle
mort! f ities near Bogor in 1978 indicated that the causative organism was a
RLO,_ which was consistent with the findings of an international seminar held
in Bali in 1975 to review the previous five years' findings on the new
Jembrana disease.
12.       Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit.  With this type of confuscd
picture emerging, and because there was scant information on the diseases
which have the potential of adversely affecting a project based primarily on
the transshipping and handling of Bali cattle, it was decided to establish a
Bali Cattle Disease Investigation Unit, initially to study Jembrana disease
and other diseases which resemble it, such as Banyuwangi and Rama Dew*
diseases - and in its early stages, Bali Ziekte (syn. Bali Cattle Disease and
Bali Sickness) - and later to investigate other disease states of Bali cattle
which could be of economic importance to a livestock industry based on Bali
cattle. The BCDIU was established as a s?ecialist unit within the Denpasar
Disease Investigation Center (DIC) in 1962.
13.       Under the present arrangement the BCDIU is wholly within DCLS since
it is treated as disease investigation rather than research, though its work
is closely coordinated with BAKITWAN. Two full-time consultants have been
employed until the end of 1987, to form part of a special study team. Only
the team leader, an Indonesian born, highly qualified virologist is an expa-
triate. The assistant team leader is a local consultant who is a very
experienced pathologist, and a pathologist, a virologist, an epidemiologist
and an immunologist have been assigned as counterpart staff in the study team,
although their old responsibilities in DIC have remained. Two veterinarians,
one from a provincial veterinary service and the other from the livestock
qlarantine service have also been employed by the BCDIU to assist the labora-
tory and to carry out field work. The three counterpart staff have been
enrolled in PhD programs, as a means of increasing their commitment to the
I/   RLO - Rlickettsia Like Organism



-89 -                                  ANNEX 4
Page 4
investigation under conditions of a very much increased work load, with no
commensurate remuneration.
14.       Investigatory work at the BCDIU started in earnest in early 1983,
focussed on isolating and identisying t.he causative organism, developing
diagnostic methodologies, determ.ining the carrier state of Ongole and Bali
cattle, identifying possible intermediate hosts or vectors of Jembrana
Disease, as well as making a taxonomic survey of possible toxic plants in
areas where Bali Ziekte is endemic. The team has followed up on identifying
the causative organism. Although the causative organism has not yet been
isolated, the pathology as it has been recently described is consistent with a
rickettsia being the aetiologic agent. However, Koch's postulates have yet to
be satisfied before a rickettsia can be implicated. An FAO team working at
the DIC until 1981 had concluded that the disease was not a rickettsia, but
more likely a virus when fever followed the injection of material collected
from an infected animal and passed through a fine filter (APD 200 manometers).
As a result virological investigation has been a major part of the investiga-
tion. The possibility of both viral and rickettsial agents being involved is
considered as a real possibility. Results of recent carrier state trials with
both Ongole and Bali cattle indicate that both breeds can be symptomless
carriers of Jembrana disease under experimental conditions for several months
or more. However, it is thougnt that in the on-farm situation they would not
become important carriers. Infective material required to establish these
animals as symptomless carriers, or to cause disease symptoms, is now 50 to
200 times or more greater than was required to transmit the disease in the
early outbreak years. This could reduce the likelihood of symptomless
carriers becoming important infective agents, particularly if Jembrana disease
is a vector-borne disease as currently suspected.
Future Operations of BCDIU
15.       Although the BCDIU has made surprisingly good progress, it is
unlikely that development of the diagnostic methodologies and epidemiological
investigations could be completed within the Unit's present three year term.
It is likely that ultimate control of Jembrana disease will be contingent on
the development of a suitable vaccine, which could take one or two years to
develop after the completion of the first project. It would take at least a
year to determine whether it would be feasible or not to eventually produce a
vaccine, or even whether Jembrana disease vaccine would be an essential part
of any control program.
16.       The BCDIU will continue to investigate diseases specifically
affecting Bali cattle. Investigation of Jembrana disease will continue to
dominate the Unit's activities until at Least the third or fourth project
year. It is expected that if the disease is caused by rickettsia, without any
complications of a second organism, investigations into the identification and
isolation of the causative organism may be completed before the end of the
first project period. If not, further work (probably mainly in virology)
would be required to identify and isolate the organism in the second
project.



- 90-.                                 AINEX 4
Page 5
17.       Little further progress in developing field diagnosis methodologies
can be achieved without the organism being isoLated, or at least identified.
Nevertheless, the Jembrana disease investigations will be carried out under
the project within the following broad program:
(i) Isolation, purification and identification of the Jembrana disease
agent. Most of the facilities and equipment provided under the
first project are adequate for the completion of this program.
(ii) Determination of the latent carriers and Latent carrier states.
(iii) Development and standardization of serological tests. Present work
has made good progress in developing a Complement Fixation Test for
general blood testing. Successful development will depend on
production of a sufficient quantity of standardized antigen for
distribution to survey crews.
(iv) Development of a vaccine, and its testing. This will require extra
equipment, cattle and some vehicles.
(v) Vector studies to identify the vector(s) of the disease.
(vi) The pathogenesis study wilL continue until the end of the first or
second project year. Under the program infected animals would be
examined, tested or autopsied during the various stages of the
disease to determine the method of infection and development of the
disease within the various organs and body tissues.
(vii) Investigation of the epidemiology of the disease. This would start
slowly and would include a serological survey of the whole of
Indonesia, a vector survey and carrying out of detailed pathology on
infected and dead animals, and
(viii) Bali Ziekte investigation. Investigation of Bali Ziekte as plant
poisoning would continue, including a taxonomic survey of grazing
plants with the potential of being toxic.
18.       The existing staff would be expanded by two veterinarians in
addition to those assigned currently from the quarantine and provincial
veterinary services. These veterinarians will carry out most of the field
epidemiological work. An entomologist will be employed full time under the
vector investigation program and a biochemist will join the team after
completing one year's overseas fellowship in biochemistry. The biochemist
will assist in the toxicological aspects of the Bali Ziekte investigation, as
well as in the early vaccine developaent stages. With the increasing work
load under the new program, 4 new laboratory assistants 2nd 6 animal
caretakers will be employed by the BCDIU.
19.       The existing Team Leader and the Assistant Team Leader will be kept
on full time for the first two and three project years respectively, and then
provide part-time inputs into the project for the final project years. A
specialist biochemist will be employed to help set up the toxicological inves-
xr



- 91                                    ANNEX 4
Page 6
tigations and support the vaccine development program. He will ensure that
the newly trained and locally employed biochemist becomes fully conversant
with the biochemical investigatory systems installed. A vaccine production
specialist WiLL be employed with short to medium term inputs over a 2 to 3
year period, and will also adequately train a counterpart to follow through on
the program after his departure. Various short-terrm foreign and local
consultants will provide specialist inputs over the project period.



- 92 -
AhNEX 5
Page 1
1.IDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CAMTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forage Program
The First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project
1.        The project started by concentrating on seed production, especially
Leucaena leucocephala (cv. Cunningham), a tree legume which is a good cattle
feed because of its high protein content and productivity. It is widely used
by small farmers on Timor (NTT) to fatten cattle for export to Jakarta.
Leucaena spp. are commonly known as Lamtoro in Indonesia. No appreciable
amounts of seed were available for the first year of the project, apart from
imports from Australia of Leucaena spp. These were used to start a seed
growing enterprise with about 300 small farmers on Timor. In addition some of
the Leucaena seed was issued directly to farmers in cattle distribution areas
as an experiment, and two cooperative nurseries of Setaria and Panicum grass
splits were established, under SATGAS supervision. Tbis system proved suc-
cessful, and in 1982/83 cooperative nurseries for grass splits were planted on
a larger scale. In addition, some 3 tons of Leucaena seed were issued to
farmers. In 1983/84 Leucaena seed was also planted in the nurseries. Towards
the end of the rains, both Leucaena seedlings and grass splits are taken from
the nurseries, and planted by the farmers around the boundaries of their
fields, near cattle sheds, and on contours.
Forage Seed Production in Nusa Tenggara
2.        The need for larger amounts of seed became evident, and by mid-1983
the seed production program included 500 small hoLdings on Lombok. A contract
system was established to guarantee farmers fixed prices for three years.
Some 200,000 Leucaena seedlings were distributed to contracted farmers, 90 of
which also planted 15 ha of Siratro and Stylo spp. pasture legumes. Ten
SATGAS members were selected, trained and placed in seed production Locations
to assist farmers in planting, crop establishment and management, together
with the establishment of various pasture improvement demonstrations. The
first harvests began in April/May 1984 and continued throughout the dry season
with seed being quality checked, purchased and packed on a monthly basis.
During this period, two forage seed shipments were made to the Sumatran cattle
distribution areas, to coincide with the forage planting program there.
Forage Planting in Cattle Distribution Areas
3.        A greatly increased forage development program was started in the
1984 wet season in Sumatra. A total of 18 tons of forage seed, and many truck
loads of grass splits were distributed to SATGAS teams along with fertilizers
and insecticides. The program was based on the establishment of cooperative
grass and Leucaena nurseries (around 2.5 ha/per SATGAS team) oversown with
Siratro or Stylo. The nurseries should yield approximately 500 Leucaena trees
and 2-3,000 grass plants for each farmer, sufficient to support their first
cow. The cooperative grass and legume nurseries will be maintained under the



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
proposed smallholder cattLe project to supply farmers with material, so that
they can increase their fodder plantings, and to supply farmers receiving
redistributed heifers.
Forage Species
4.        Tree Legumes.  Cunningham Lamtoro (Leucaena leucoceohala cv.
Cunningham) is promising in the infertile upland soils of Sumatra, using
scarification and inoculation techniques, insecticides, and lime and TSP
application at planting of cooperative nurseries. Vigorous stands of Lamtoro
are found in the longer established transmigration areas, mostly of the less
productive Leucaena glauca species, but they are usually close to houses where
they probably enjoy a more favorable fertiLizer and organic matter regime than
elsewhere. The Colombian Institute for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) has a
research program aimed at selecting tropical forage legume cultivars tolerant
of high soil acidity and aluminum toxicity. Forage experts employed by the
proposed project will review and evaluate tree-legume husbandry in Indonesia,
aimed at comparing the long term forage production performance of Lamtoro
under farm conditions with other species such as Sesbania grandiflora
-liricidia sp., and Calliandra sp.
5.        Grasses.  For cut-and-carry forage, bunch grasses are preferred.
Setaria (Setaria sphaecelata) is the major species promoted under the First
IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project, for planting along roadsides and field
borders. Though promising, Setaria is not a heavy producer, and may be toxic
if fed as too great a proportion of the ration. Alternatives to be
investigated by SATGAS teams in the proposed project will include Guinea Grass
(Panicum maximum) and Plicatulum (Paspalum plicatulum).
6.        The following forage species will be promoted in the proposed
project.
For Cattle Distribution Areas:
Tree Legumes: Lamtoro (Leucaena leucocephala cv. Cunningham)
Grasses: Setaria (Setaria sphaecelata), Guinea grass (Panicum
maximum), Plicatulum (Paspalum plicatulum)
Pasture Legumes: Verano Stylo (Stylosanthes hamata cv. Verano),
GrahAm Stylo (Stylosanthes guyanensis cv. Graham), Calopo
(Calopogonium muconoides)
For Cattle Procurement Areas:
Tree Legumes: Lamtoro Cunningham (Leucaena leucocephala cv.
Cunningham)
Grasses: Guinea grass (Panicum maximim), Plicatulum (Paspalum
plicatulum), Rhodes grass (Chloris guyana), Signal grass
(Brachiaria decumbens)



- 94 -
ANE  5
Page 3
Pasture Legms  Seca Stylo (Stylosanthes scabra cv. Seca),
Siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum), Verana Stylo
(Stylosanthes hamata cv. Verano)
Other Species
Additional species which show potential in the cattle distribution
areas, notably:
Tree Legumes: Calliandra (Calliandra sp.), Gamal (Cliricidia sp.),
Turi (Sesvania grandiflora)
Grasses: Para grass (Brachiaria mutica) - for moist soils
Pasture Legumes: Centro (Centrosema pubescens).
Forage Establishment in the Proposed Cattle Project
7.        Forage seeds will be distributed by each PNU to their outposted
SATGAS teams. Because of the difficulties of establishing tree-legumes and
some grasses from seed on acid soils, the lamtoro and grass seed will be
pLanted out in farmers' group nurseries organized by each SATGAS in order to
raise seedlings for farmers. Each SATGAS team will receive the following
technical package for establishing cooperative nurseries at the time that
cattle are received in their coomunities.
Lamtoro            25 kgs
Setaria            56 kgs
Lime            1,000 kgs
Urea               12 kgs
TSP                50 kgs
Inoculum          10 gms
Pesticides          1 kg
8.        Lime, insecticide and chemical fertilizers will be applied to the
nursery, and the Lamtoro seed scarified and inoculated with root-nodulating
Rhizobia. The nurseries will be maintained, reseeded and given annual dress-
ings of lime and fertilizer, so that farmers have available a source of plant-
ing materials to replant areas which fail, or to extend their forage areas
beyond the initial 0.25 ha they will be required to plant. Most of this area
would be fulfilled by planting around the house, along roads and along field
boundaries.
9.        By distributing seedlings for farmer planting, there should be no
need for additional Rhizobia inoculation. The heavy lime and fertilizer
applications in the nursery, with residual effect in the soil adhering to
seedling roots, will assist in early seedling establishment on farmers' fields
without additional treatment. Farmers will use cattle manure to aid in early
growth. Should establishment after transplanting prove difficult because of
adverse soils, two courses of action can be taken. First, a two stage nursery
using polybags, especially for Lamtoro, would give seedlings a better start.
Second, supplies of fertilizer and lime for participating farmers might be



- 95 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 4
ar-anged by the project, given to them, and charged against the cattle
credit. However, these measures wiLl only be taken if forage establishment
proves more difficult than experience under the first cattle project suggests.
10.       To meet the initial feed needs of the cattLe distributed each farmer
would be required to pLant 0.25 ha of forage. Together with crop residues,
this should produce sufficient feed to carry the small herd farmers are likely
to carry (after they have returned the first two offspring to the project) of
about 3 animal units.



- 96 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
GOI Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
1.        A Presidential Instruction covering M&E was issued in 1983.  The
main objective is an efficient implementation of the general functions of the
government and national development planning, embracing all aspects of
organization, personnel and management.
2.        A decree of the Minister of Agriculture concerning M&E, also issued
in 1983, basically gives directives on how M&E should be carried out by the
Inspector GeneraL (MOA), the Director General (DGLS), the Director of a
Directorate, and a Project Director. The upper hierarchal levels are
concerned with monitoring and evaluating policies and planning. The lower
levels are concerned with monitoring operational activities and achievements.
3.        The M&E functions of the Inspector GeneraL (on behalf of the
minister) are: (a) preparation and planning of the implementation of
projects; (b) organization; (c) implementation of the internal control
executed by the different management units of all levels from the Directorates
General to projects.
4.        The M&E functions of the Directorate General are related to the
implementation of the operational guidelines for projects. The supervisor of
a project director is mostly concerned with the monitoring and evaluation of
all project activities.
5.        The monitoring of projects carried out by the government agencies is
primarily concerned with the physical inputs and outputs of the projects. By
inputs are meant the resources needed by a project during implementation.
These consist of capital, manpower, technology, equipment and other support
services.  The outputs of the project are considered to be the specific
outcome of the project activities in the form of physical facilities, material
and supplies generated. Such an approach emphasizes the financial and
physical aspects of project implementation but does not provide information on
the effects or impact upon the project beneficiaries, or target group.
Monitoring and Evaluation in the First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Development
Project
6.        Two types of M&E are carried out.  The in-house monitoring as
required by the GOt system has been carried out to provide information on the
efficiency and progress of implementation. To provide information on project
impact in the cattle distribution areas, including socioeconomic information,
a firm of Indonesian consultants was retained to work under the guidance of a
short-term foreign expert.



- 97 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 2
7.        A small unit within the planning division of the PMO is responsible
for monitoring financial and physical progress of the project. Information is
processed into standard quarterly and monthly reports. In addition, the PMO
designed another set of forms to monitor the purchase and distribution of
cattle and follow-up information such as mortalities, calving rates, etc.
These forms are filled in by the SATGAS, forwarded via the PMUs to the PMO
where the relevant data are entered in the computer.
8.        A questionnaire to gather data to evaluate the project's socio-
economic impact was designed in 1982 anid used in surveys of four distribution
sites (two in South Sutra and two in Riau) in 1983.  The results were
published in a report.-   Because of deficiencies in survey design and
coverage, continued use of the same questionnaire will r.ot provide the
information for management decisions, or for measurement of the project's
impact.
9.        Accordingly, a foreign consultant has assisted in drawing up a
revised design for the socioeconomic impact monitoring in the project
distribution areas. A design has been developed for a socioeconomic survey in
which the sample grows by incremental subsamples as both the project size arnd
the geographical coverage of the distribution areas grow. Subsamples are to
be surveyed periodically to measure the project' s impact over time. The
design calls for a routine core survey with more intensive special-topic
surveys carried out in subsamples as required. A questionnaire using revised
indicators has been designed and field tested. The first field survey was
carried out in April 1985, and 1200 farmers were interviewed. The consultant
staff will supervise selected and trained SATCAS staff who will act as the
field enumerators. Tabulation and analysis will be jointly carried out by
consultant and PMO staff.
The Proposed Smallholder Cattle Project
10.       M&E of the proposed project will build upon the methodological
framework evolved in the first project. The M&E unit of the PMO Planning
Division will be expanded and strengthened and an M&E officer will be
appointed to each PMU. To assist with the strengthening of the M&E unit, one
full-time Indonesian M&E consultant will be hired. Short-term inputs will
include regular visits from an international consultant to advise on policy
and detailed methodological design and from both expatriate and Indonesian
experts to carry out specialized short-term studies.
11.       The first project relied heavily on consultants for evaluation
survey work, with only one person in the PMO involved full time with M&E.
This dependence on consultants will be reduced by the addition of specialized
M&E staff both at PMO and PMU level.
1/Report on Monitoring and Ongoing Evaluation, P.T. Bahana Mitra Buana,
October 1983.



-98-                                   ANNEX 6
Page 3
M&E PROJECT STAFFINC
No. of
persons      Title/Role                           Qualifications
PMO          1         Head,  4EE Section                   University Graduate
1         Physical and Financial X&E          University Graduate
I         Socioeconomic Surveys               University Graduate
2         Subprofessional Support Staff        Senior High School
PMU         12         M&E Specialist                       University Graduate
12.       The Project Director, head of Planning Division and head of M&E
Section will be advised on M&E policies and detailed methodological design by
a visiting short-term expatriate consultant who will be available to the
project for up to two man-months per year. Por technical and managerial
operational assistance as well as M&E unit strengthening, a full-time
Indonesian consultant M&E adviser will be retained for 60 man-mwnths.
13.       PNUs will be strengthened by the addition of one M1E officer.  The
role of the M1E officer will be to ensure that all monthly reports flow from
the SATCAS and PHU to the PMO.  The PMU M1E officer will also be responsible
for the field administration and logistics of any socioeconomic or special
surveys carried out within the PHU area.
Special Studies
14.       Three short-term studies will be undertaken.  Terms of Reference and
survey design for the special studies, to be determined as the project
progresses, will be prepared in consultation with the visiting short-term M1E
foreign consultant. Special studies are likely to include:
(a)  studies necessary to complement routine core surveys for complete
impact analysis;
(b)  studies related to specific implementation problems; and
(c)  studies related to socioeconomic impact of project subcomponents,
e.g. forage development in procurement areas, seeds production in
NTB, NTT, etc.



ANNEX 7
Table I
_ 99 _
INDONESIE
SNALLEOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
Unit     Total
1986/87  199/98  1991199  1999/90  1990!91 Total         Cost     cost
LOCAL SERVICES                                       -( .an tonths)-           - --           tsid 195 rp  illion)
PND
Financial Control                       12        12       12                          36       4.2      152
Seeds                                   12        12       12                          36       4.2      152
Forage                                  12        12       12                          36       4.2      152
Sub-total                                  36        36       36                          10t      4.2      457
Nlonitoring and Evaluation
Team Leader Consultant                   6        12        6                          24       4.2      102
Computer System Anal st                  6        12        6                          24       4.2      102
LnIestock sPecialist                     3         3        2                           0       4.2       34
Aricltura1  Eoonosist                    2         2        2                           6       4.2       25
Others                                   2         2        2                           6       4.2       25
Sub-total                                   19       31      1t          0        0       be       4.2      299
CDIU
Diodiust                                 6        12        b                          24       4.2      102
Pathologist                              6        12       12        6                 36       4.2      152
Visiting Local Specialists               12       15       15         6                4a       4.2      203
Sub-total                                  24        39       33        12                109      4.2      457
CPRTIYE DEVEWLPHENT
Consultant Tean Leader                  12        12       12                          36       4.2      152
ecial Studies
Credit                                 6         6                                   12       4.2       51
iagement                               6         6                                   12       4.2       51
Nhrketing                              6         6                                   12      4.2        51
ccounting                              6         6                                   12       4.2       51
Sub-total                                  36        36       12                          94       4.2      356
TOTAL LOCAL SERYICES                      115       142                 12        0      36B       4.2     1559
EXPATRIATE SERVICES
PRO
Cattle Production                       12        12       12                          36      15.1      545
Forage Specialist                        4         2        2                           8      15.1      121
Sub-total                                   16       14       14                          44      15.1      666
Mouitring and Evalution
IlE mhthodology/studies                  4         3        3                          10      15.1      151
Special Studies                          2         2        2                           6      15.1       91
Sub-tal                                     6         5        5                          16      15.1      242
BCDIU
Senior Scientist                         6        12       12        6                 36      15.1      545
Vaccine Specialist                       6        12        6                          24      15.1      363
Sub-total                                  12        24       19        6                 60      15.1      909
COOP TIVE DEVELOPMENT
Supervisory Consultant                   4         4                                    8      15.1      121
TOTAL EXPATRIATE SERVICES                  38        47       37        6         0      128      15.1     1936



ANNEX 7
Table 2
- 100 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
Project Year                        Unit     Total
1996/87  1997/10 1919189 199/90 1990/91  Total       Cost      Cost
(person months)                   (mid-1995 Rp Killion)
P110 Staff Training
Management staff        (AAEE)                        3       3                                 &       1.27     7.62
Project staff           (AAETE)                      11      11                                22       1.27  ' 27.94
Sub-total                                              14      14                                21               35.56
Managesent      (Private Nanagement                                                                              40.4
& Project staff  University/Institute)               10      10                                20      2.02
New staff       (DOLS/PRO)                           15                                        15      0.63      9.45
Total PHO                                               39       24                                63               95.41
PNUl Staff Trainin
Management & Propct staff          AAEET             30      30                                60       1.27     76.2
Management       (Private Management
staff          University/Institute)              30       30                                60      2.02    121.2
Meg staff       DLS9/PHD                             15                                        15      0.63      9.45
Seed Processing Technicians
(Overseas Course)                                  3                                          3     13.77    41.31
Total PtlU                                            78       60                               139              249.16
BCDIU
Fellowships     (12 mnths each)                         2                                         2      B.64    17.28
SATBAS Staff Training
basic extension orientation        MEET              25      25      30      30       35      145      0.92    133.4
orientation     DGLS/PHO                             25      25      30      30       35      145      0.21      30.5
Total SATBAS                                          50       50      60      60       70      290               163.9
Farmer Training  (SATGAS)                              1700  1947.9  2379.2  2690.1  3112.9    11899      0.005      59.5
Trainin,  for Cooperative Development
SATE S staff, I ter KUD for training
to be KUD uni  chief                              75       75                               150      1.30       195
Farmers, I per KUD for training
to be KUD staff                                   30       30                                60      1.30        79
District Cooperative Department Stafi                75       75                               150      1.30       195
Total Training Costs (mid-1985 Rp Million)           495.3   408.7    45.8    47.3    55.1   1042.2                1042.2



- 101 -                            ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Disbursements for training costs wilL be made against semi-annual
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Each SOE wilL detail (a) the name and
position of the trainee; (b) the date on which training took place; and (c)
the type of training and name of training organization.
2.        Standard training costs will be used for disbursements and these
costs will be agreed between the Bank and GOI before training comnences.



- 102 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Contents of the Project File
DOCUMENTS
1.   Preparation Report:  Smllholder Cattle Development Project II,
International Fund for Agricultural Developmentp November, 1984.
2.   Mid-Term Review:  Smallholder Cattle Development Project, World
Bank/IFAD, May 15, 1984.
TABLES
Detailed Project Cost Tables
100.    New Cattle Distribution
101.    Project Management Office
102.    Project Management Unit
103.    SATCAS - Field Eztension Unit
104.    Forage Development - Distribution Areas
105.    Animal Health Services
106.    Forage Seed and Forage Development
107.    Cattle Transfer Infrastructure - Holding Ground Development
108.    Cattle Transfer Infrastructure - DetaiLed Breakdown per Holding
Cround
109.    BCDIU - Disease Investigations
10.    Consulting Services
ill.    Training
Summary Project Cost Tables
1.    Summary Accounts by Year
2.    Project Components by Year
3.    Project Cost Summary
4.    Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Physical Implementation
1.    Cattle Distribution - Smallholder Cattle Development Project
2.    Cattle Redistribution - Smallholder Cattle Development Project
3.    Cattle Redistribution - First IFAD Smallholder Cattle Project
4.    Forage Seed Production Requirements
5.    Equipment Procurement
6.    Vehicle Procurement
7.    Project Staff Requirements
8.    Incremental Staff Build-Up Per Province
9.    Total Number of Staff Employed Per Annum



- 103
ANNEX 9
Page 2
10.    Project Civil Works
11.    Holding Ground Development
12.    PHO Build-Up
13.   PKU Build-Up
14.    SATGAS Development
15.    BCDIU Build-Up
16.    Technical Assistance Requirements
17.    Training
Project Analysis Tables
1.    Without Project Situation:  Productivity of 100 Heifers and 10 Bulls
in Procurement Areas
2.    With Project Situation:  Productivity of 100 Heifer. and 10 Bulls in
Distribution Areas
3.    Incremental Herd Productivity Gains
4.    Without Project:  Farm Labor Use Analysis
5.    With Project:  rarm Labor Use Analysis
6.    Incremental Labor Use
7.    Procurement and Delivery Cost of One Heifer
8.    Estimated Liveweight of Offtake Cattle
Cattle Procurement and Distribution Tables
1.   Cattle Population by Province 1978-83
2.    Interinsular Trade for Slaughter and Breeding (1978-83)
3.    South,Sulavesi.- Possible Heifer Offtake Levels with Zero Herd
Growth
4.     TT - Possible Heifer Offtake Levels in a Zero Herd Growth;Situation
5.    ITB - Possible Heifer Offtake Levels with Zero Herd Growth



-104 -
CIUIT I
-ACDRE CP
O.m_oS'luctwl  dl OSScIoII 6enul d
1UqkS kmcSI  Ihe MImIU?lldcA
|  I  I                                T                 ~     ~~~~~~I  _
_~~~~~~ .
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    _,  I  D- l o 
-a wacm }SX
=~~~D=
q ~~~~II
1100=  - QUCM*I
H  1~~~~~~~~
L     ~~~~~~~~I
ICM __
ccomob ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     2r7



- 105 -
CHAKr 2
INDONESA
SMALLHOLDER CATfLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
roJect Mnagemert Ogmf ti    Cho
=                                                 s~~0
~~~~DO_
I~~~Akx DC  I                 ,0niar
RulaElftnst Angna
I ArrtF P%CW
VmbaW*-27129



- 106-               CHART 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER CARE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BCDIU OgaWaion Chat Showing W kR s   wih DIC
. -~~~~~~~~ocowc
11 1r  I   Im               - f- - L
Tee                                r-ad
AqIn &  FIwc                       AITg &     Fna
Waid floni-27127



HA ANO                                                                                                                                          R,a-
:s-W*   SMALLHOLOER CATTLE
...uM Chine                                                                                                   W41
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                          E LOMENT PROJECT
41.z
|! 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* ')v SdeX CG mu ; tv7  (4-|
E i.
~~~~~~~~~ ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'F,4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'
V~~~~~. ,;~~~~~~~~S~~~~AYUA (dIM~~~'A               r  W14                       ",I
VA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ";ea A'.                                                   'or     A
JULY iosS



