Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11888
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEKENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2738-HU)
MAY 18, 1993
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
Appraisal Year Average                             1 US$ -  Ft 50.0
Intervening Years Average                         1 US$ -  Ft 55.0
Completion Year Average                            1 US$ -  Ft 74.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AGROBER     Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK     Agricultural Equipment Importing Agency
BB          Budapest Bank
CMEA        Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EDI         Economic Development Institute of the World Bank
FAO/CP      Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GSM         Grain Storage and Agricultural Mechanization Project
HCB         Hungarian Credit Bank
IAE         Institute of Agricultural Engineering
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MEM         Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NBH         National Bank of Hungary
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
OKHB        National Commercial and Credit Bank
PCR         Project Completion Report
GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffiC of Drector-G..rai
Opecedons EnJuation                                                            May 18, 1993
MIEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Hungary
Crop Production Improvement Project (Loan 2738-HtT]
Attached is a copy of a report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Hungary -
Crop Production Improvement Project (Loan 2738-HU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was effectively implemented, and the Bank and the Government showed flexibility
in adapting project design to rapidly changing overall economic and institutional conditions. The farm
machinery component was implemented successfully, albeit at a level lower than envisaged. Investors
interest in the land improvement and liquid fertilizer components, in contrast, waned and only 14,000
ha were improved and two fertilizer plants built. Significant institutional building was achieved, and
the strengthening of research and support services for the development of field crop production is
likely to be sustainable.
The project is likely to yield an economic internal rate of return of 13 percent, satisfactory
but significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of 39 percent. Four unforeseeable factors reduced
the overall impact of the project, namely, collapse of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
(CMEA) system; deteriorating terms of trade for domestic agriculture producers; the severe 1987-88
drought, and the land ownership transformation process.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a reatricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disobsed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMYT PROJECT
(Loan 2738-HU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE   .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .    .   .   .   . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .iii
PART T PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY  .1...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B. BACKGROUND.                                                           1
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION.                                   2
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION.                                      3
E. PROJECT IMPLEXENTATION  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Institutional Aspacts of Project Implemontation.                     5
Physical Aspects of Project Implementation.                          6
F. PROJECT RESULTS .10
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................    11
H. BANK PERLFORMANCE .11
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .1.1.................... . ll
J.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ................. . 12.
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWE 'S PERSPECTIVE .13
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loa.s .19
Table 2: Project Timetable .20
Table 3:  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input ..................... . 20
B. Missions ....................... . 21
Table 4: Loan Disbursoments .22
Table 5:  Project Implemontation - Key Indicators .23
Table 6:  Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs in US$ .24
B. Project Costs in Forints .24
C. Project Financing .25
Tablo 7:  Project Results
A. Direct Benefits .26
B. Project Impact .27
Table 8 Status of Covenants .28
Table 9: Subsidy Reduction .30
Table 10: Internal Terms of Trade for Agriculture.                        31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2738-HU)
PREFACE
1.       The Crop Production Improvement Project, for which Loan 2738-HU in the
amount of US$100 million equivalent was approved on July 8, 1986, was closed one
year behind schedule on December 31, 1991 with a final disbursement on March 2,
1992. This was the third Bank loan for agriculture to Hungary.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture and Water Supply Operations
Division (EC2AW) of the Central Europe Department.   It is based in part on a
review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5899-HU) dated May 5, 1986, the
President's Report (No. P-4350-HU) dated June 6, 1986, the Loan Agreement of July
9, 1986, correspondence with the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda on project
issues as contained in relevant Bank files. The Borrower provided substantial
information on the impact of the project to the PCR mission in March 1992. Parts
I and III of the PCR were sent to the Borrower on June 25, 1992. Comments were
received from the National Bank of Hungary and the Ministry of Agriculture on
November 13, 1992 and are included as Part II of this report.



L



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2738-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.       The main objective of the project was to maintain and increase foreign
exchange earnings in convertible currency through the expansion of the production
of agricultural goods for export or as import substitutes. To achieve this, the
project was designed to:
(a)   promote the use of better and less energy consuming equipment to
upgrade existing aging equipment, thereby increase crop yields,
reduce harvest losses and lower production costs;
(b)   upgrade and implement improved policies for selection of lands
for investment in land improvement through shaping, drainage, and
soil treatment;
(c)   produce and distribute liquid fertilizer to replace poor quality
granular fertilizer, thereby preventing waste and decreasing
environment hazards;
(d)   strengthen research and support services in the fields of crop
breeding, soil testing, plant and environment protection; and
(e)   improve managerial capacity in farms and production systems,
increase skills of Hungarian technicians, promote optimization of
the use of farm machinery, and expand the extension activities to
cover less financially and technically favored production units.
Implementation ExRerience
2.       The farm machinery component was implemented successfully, albeit at a
lower level than envisaged--430 subloans were made to cooperatives, state farms,
and private farmers. Investor interest waned in the land iMRrovement component
with the application of stricter economic criteria under the project; however,
a package of modern land improvement machinery was procured under the project.
Through 27 subloans about 14,000 ha were improved under the project. The liguid
fertilizer component was implemented on a much-reduced scale. Two plants were
constructed under the project and one was modernized (with a total capacity to
cover 200,000 ha).   Following severe  drought conditions  in 1987-88,  the
Government of Hungary made a request in the fall of 1990 to allow financing of
the  emergency  importation  of  animal  feed  under  the  four  existing  Bank
agricultural credit lines to safeguard the national livestock wealth. Coarse
grain stocks had fallen dangerously low from 1989 to 1990, and financing of the
importation of US$8.2 million of animal feed (soybean meal pellets), from cost
savings due to decreased demand for machinery and equipment under this loan, took
place in 1991 (par&. 15).



- iv -
3.       Under the institution building component,  substantial  training of
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MEM) staff took place under the
project. Various overseas study tours and postgraduate training took place as
well as training related to the following investments:    (a) Agricultural
Biotechnology Center at G6ddlld. This state-of-the art center became operational
during the second half of 1990. The center had a total investment cost of US$20
million, of which US$4.5 million (equipment) was financed by the Bank under both
this and the Integrated Livestock Project. (b) Agricultural Research Institute
of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Martonv4sir. The research conducted by the
Institute centers around wheat and maize, and ranges from physiological through
genetic and breeding studies. Financing under the project was provided (US$1.8
million) for renewal of a Phytotron, and associated lab and testing equipment.
The new equipment became fully operational by June 1990 at a cost of US$2.5
million.    (c)  Agro-Environment  Protection  and  Plant  Hvgiene  DeRartment.
Equipment for soil and water testing for chemical residues for the former Crop
Protection and Soil Conservation Service, valued at US$2.8 million, was financed
under the loan. The government testing laboratories are now scaling down in size
and number, and are assuming a regulatory role, reorienting their efforts on
monitoring and environmental protection.        (d) Establishment of Management
Information System for Farms. Consultants were engaged to develop a system to
improve the management and accounting systems of production units (para. 15).
4.       The project's credit component was efficiently managed by NBH and the
commercial banks. On-lending criteria were applied, and subproject appraisal was
carried out effectively with the technical input from AGROBER and IAE. AGROBER,
acting as project implementation unit, built up its analytical capacity under
this and other Bank agriculture projects, and continues to operate effectively.
The evaluation work carried out by IAE makes a valuable contribution to the
continuing effort towards efficiency in Hungarian agriculture. MEM's Economic
Department produced studies and reports on the agricultural policy framework
which facilitated the continuing positive dialog between government and the Bank
(para. 27).  Procurement under the project was problematical.  An inordinate
amount of time was spent and many difficulties arose coming to agreement on
procurement issues with the primary procurement agency, AGROTEK (para. 14).
Project Results
5.        Estimates of project rate of return at appraisal were based on the
assumption of (a) yield increases of 20X due to improved machinery, (b)
reductions in crop losses and operating costs for the same reason, (c) increased
area under grain production due to land improvement and reductions in area under
sugar beet, and (d) benefits from the use of liquid fertilizers. In actuality,
on average only 10X of the total machinery fleet was replaced on any given farm;
the expectation of 20X yield increases on total cropped area due to this level
of technical change is, therefore, not realistic, and no increase has been
assumed in the recalculated analysis (para. 20). The expectation of a decreased
area under sugar beet due to efficiency gains from new equipment and agreed
policy changes was also overestimated at appraisal for the same reason.  The
major impact from the improved farm machinery came from decreases in operating
costs. Land improvement investments, while yielding a high rate of return, were
much reduced in scope as compared to appraisal estimates (para. 21).  Liquid
fertilizer investments are considered to have a negative rate of return (para.
22). Taking a weighted average of the returns calculated on the three productive



-v -
components, the project would yield a recalculated project rate of return of 13%
as compared to the appraisal estimate of 39%.
Proiect Sustainability
6.       The project clearly fulfilled two of its main objectives, namely (a)
upgrading existing aging equipment with better and less energy consuming
equipment and (b) strengthening research and support services in the fields of
cereal breeding, soil testing, plant, and environment protection, improving
production efficiency.   These two improvements are major contributors to the
sustainable development of the field crop production.  Three major mitigating
factors have decreased the overall impact of the project: (a) A drop in total
cereal demand during the life of the project as a result of the collapse of the
ex-CMEA market (including a 50% drop in grain exports from 1989 to 1990); (b)
continued liberalization of the economy has created a situation where the
internal terms of trade for agriculture progressively worsened over the life of
the project causing disincentives to farmers; and (c) a severe drought in 1987-88
whose effects were felt for several years. In addition, the current ownership
transformation process could cause major short-term disruptions in the sector.
Despite these negative factors, crop production in Hungary rebounded in 1991 and
the overall conditions for competitive production of field crops in Hungary
continue to exist.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.       The main findings, and lessons learned, from the experience under the
project are:
(a)    The evolution of the project  as  described  in the project  files
demonstrates the ability on the part of the Hungarian authorities and
the Bank staff members involved to adjust and redesign the project to
the changing context of Hungarian agriculture. The adjustment of the
land improvement component is a case in point (para. 25).
(b)    Procurement under the project was problematical.  An inordinate amount
of time was spent and many difficulties arose coming to agreement on
procurement issues with the primary procurement agency, AGROTEK. As a
result, investors dropped out of the project due to delays and rigid
procurement packaging requirements. In this case procurement rules and
regulations lagged behind the changing Hungarian context. Procurement
arrangements under the Hungarian agricultural credit projects which
followed this project do reflect the liberalization of the Hungarian
economy, with an increasing level of flexibility (para. 14).
(c)    Benefits  attributed  to  the modernization  of farm equipment were
overestimated at appraisal. This was in part due to the fact that only
10% of farm machinery fleets were replaced and the impact could not be
as marked, but was also due to an underestimation of the high level of
development already exhibited by Hungarian field crop production (para.
15).
(d)    The institutional arrangements for the implementation of the projects
were well designed and efficiently carried out. The project's credit
component was efficiently managed by NBH and the commercial banks. On-



- vi -
lending criteria were applied, and subproject appraisal was carried out
effectively with the technical input from AGROBER and the Institute for
Agricultural  Engineering  (IAE).        AGROBER,   acting  as  project
implementation unit, built up its analytical capacity under this and
other Bank agriculture projects and continues to operate effectively.
The evaluation work carried out by IAE makes a valuable contribution to
the continuing effort towards efficiency in Hungarian agriculture.
MEM's Economic Department produced studies and reports on the
agricultural policy framework which facilitated the continuing positive
dialog between government and the Bank (para. 27).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2738-HU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name        : Crop Production Improvement Project
Loan Number:  2738-HU
RVP Unit      ECA
Country       Hungary
Sector        Agriculture
Subsector     Agricultural Credit
B. BACKGROUND
1.       Hungary joined the Bank on July 7, 1982.  At the time, the Hungarian
Government had asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment in
the productive sectors through project-based lending aimed at export generation,
import substitution and increased efficiency.   This loan brought total Bank
commitments by 1986 to approximately US$1 billion for sixteen loans (including
"B" loans).
2.       Agriculture is of major importance to the Hungarian economy.  It has
largely fulfilled the country's need for food and has generated significant
surpluses for export. The sector had performed well over the previous 15 years
prior to appraisal, showing an annual growth rate of 2.9% in real terms, and an
average rate of 3.5X over the previous five years.   At the time of project
approval, agriculture was one of the first sectors initiating the process of
moving away from a centrally-planned to a more market-based production/investment
system. There remained, however, a significant degree of State subsidy, tax
incentives and regulations on investment and use of profits.
3.       The project was the third financed by the Bank in the agricultural
sector. The Grain Storage and Agricultural Mechanization (GSM) Project (Ln.
2316-HU), approved in FY83 (including two "B" loans), was designed to increase
grain production and decrease harvest losses through increased storage capacity
and increased investment in on-farm mechanization. The project met or exceeded
appraisal estimates and was rated as fully satisfactory by OED reviewers. MEM
was extremely satisfied with the GSM project, particularly as regards the
introduction of Bank appraisal methodology, lower procurement costs achieved
through ICB and the Bank role in securing cofinancing. The Integrated Livestock
Project (Ln. 2510-HU), approved in FY85, aimed at improving production efficiency
in the livestock industry and at promoting meat and meat product exports, and
closed in December 1991. Preliminary results show that the project generally met
physical target estimates. Since 1986 there have been two additional projects
in the sector, the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (Ln. 2738-HU), approved
in FY88, designed to increase exports of Hungarian agroprocessing peoducts to



- 2 -
convertible currency areas and the Integrated Agricultural Export Project (Ln.
3229-HU), approved in FY90, designed to provide additional financial resources
to private, small scale farmers and larger agricultural units (see Table 1).
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Obiectives
4.       The main objective of the Crop Production Improvement Project was to
maintain and increase foreign exchange earnings in convertible currency through
the expansion of the production of agricultural goods for export or as import
substitutes. To achieve this, the project was designed to:
(a)   promote the use of better and less energy consuming equipment to
upgrade existing aging equipment, thereby increase crop yields,
reduce harvest losses and lower production costs;
(b)   upgrade and implement improved policies for selection of lands
for investment in land improvement through shaping, drainage, and
soil treatment;
(c)   produce and distribute liquid fertilizer to replace poor quality
granular fertilizer, thereby preventing waste and decreasing
environment hazards;
(d)   strengthen research and support services in the fields of crop
breeding, soil testing, plant and environment protection; and
(e)   improve managerial capacity in farms and production systems,
increase skills of Hungarian technicians, promote optimization of
the use of farm machinery, and expand the extension activities to
cover less financially and technically favored production units.
Proiect Description
5.       The project was designed to be implemented over a four-year period and
consisted of three investment components implemented by providing credit to about
300 state farms and cooperatives.
(a)   Crop Production
- Provision of high-quality machinery (tractors, tillers,
harvesters, dryers, etc.) to improve cropping operations,
increase quality and yields, reduce losses and decrease
production cost over an area of about 1.2 million ha; and
- Execution of reclamation works consisting of land levelling,
consolidation, roads, drainage, soil restructuring and
correction on over an area of about 150,000 ha.



-3-
(b)   Liguid Fertilizer
-  Construction and operation of some 10 mixing plants to meet
the fertilizer needs of about 350,000 ha of cereal farm land
including   working   capital   requirements   (purchase   of
monoammonium phosphate); and
- provision of special transportation and spreading equipment.
(c)   Institutional Development
-  Provision of research equipment to strengthen cereal breeding
as a basis for future crop improvement and to increase the
efficiency of crop production, including equipment for soil
and chemical analysis, plant growth chambers, and a
biotechnological center for plant genetic research;
-  Provision and dissemination of management information systems
among farms and agricultural production units; and
-  Training  of  Hungarian  technicians  in  fields  related  to
improvement of crop production and farm economics, and
management and dissemination of acquired experience among
farms and agricultural production units.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Proiect Identification. PreRaration. and ADDraisal
6.       The project was identified in July 1983 as primarily a land reclamation
and farm machinery project which would support a portion of the MEM's 1986-1990
Development Plan. A project brief was finalized in January 1984. At that time,
the issue was raised of the economic viability of land reclamation.  Internal
Bank reviewers cited low rates of return for land reclamation works and ranked
them low in the investment priorities of the sector. It was stated that these
investments would only make sense if other crop production investments had fully
exploited the productive potential of all the land in Hungary which did not need
reclaiming. The other criticism stemmed from the fact that land reclamation
investments were then receiving anywhere from 30-70X government subsidy,
depending on farm income.   It was determined that careful analysis would be
required in order to assess whether the component made economic sense, and
whether the current levels of subsidy would create excessive financial returns
to investors.
7.       Responsibility for project preparation was given to MEM.  Extensive
training through EDI was carried out in early 1984 in financial and economic
analysis of projects, procurement seminars were held, and these institution-
building activities were received with much interest by the Hungarian
authorities. Project preparation took place over a sixteen-month period with
some assistance from FAO/CP and Bank missions.   Over the course of project
preparation the land reclamation component became less prominent in importance,
and a component supporting the government program for the expansion of liquid



- 4 -
fertilizer production and usage by the provision of equipment and initial
monoammonium phosphate requirements, was added.
8.       The main components of the project as appraised in May 1985, consisted
of agricultural equipment purchase (70%), land reclamation (13%), liquid
fertilizer (10%), and a rice production and an institution building component
which included research investments. Analysis carried out during the appraisal
mission showed that rice production had a marginal yield and the component was
dropped from the project. It was also decided that retroactive financing of US$5
million would be allowed for the purchase of sugar beet harvesting equipment with
the justification that the country had the intention of maintaining self-
sufficiency, not to increase production, and that increased productive efficiency
would allow for a reduction in sugar acreage, freeing up land for grain
production.   It was also suggested to include in the loan agreement certain
policy conditionalities on which a growing consensus between the Bank and the
Government was emerging, the outcome of a continuing policy dialog under the
auspices of agricultural sector work.
9.       During project processing it was decided that due to the variable
economic rates of return for land reclamation, strict economic and financial
selection criteria would be applied in subproject evaluation. It was recommended
that assurances would be sought during negotiations for Government not to make
available subsidies on investments financed under the project. Negotiations were
held in January 1986, and this option was rejected by the Government during
negotiations on the grounds that the elimination of agricultural subsidies should
be viewed in the total context of prices and subsidies paid to the producers, and
taxes collected by the Government. It was proposed that either the component be
dropped altogether, or that a small amount of land reclamation equipment be
included in the project with the proviso that all land reclamation activities,
even those beyond the scope of the project, be carried out according to sound
criteria satisfactory to the Bank. This proposal was eventually accepted, along
with the following policy agreements:
(a)   Confirmation  of  Government's  intention  to  gradually  reduce
subsidies in the sector, adjust producer prices considering world
market prices, and rationalize the agricultural tax system;
(b)   Agreement to complete a study which would pave the way for this
comprehensive adjustment of prices, taxes, and subsidies;
(c)   Agreement  to develop  the national  land  improvement program
following criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and;
(d)   Agreement to maintain sugar production at the national demand
level and to reduce production areas if needed to respect
balance.
The loan was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors in July 1986 and became
effective in August 1986.



- 5 -
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Aspects of Proiect Implementation
10.      The major State institution in the agricultural sector at the time of
project implementation was MEM.   It initiated virtually all of the sectoral
planning, policy formulation, research, and other support activities. The other
State organs directly regulating agriculture were the National Planning Office,
which was responsible for development plans, the National Board for Materials and
Prices, which made recommendations for administrative prices for all agricultural
products and inputs, AGROBER, an autonomous national engineering and consulting
firm which  fell under  the  supervision  of MEM who  acted  as  the project
implementation unit for technical support, and AGROTEK, the foreign trading
organization which imported virtually all farm machinery and equipment
countrywide.
11.      The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) combined the functions of a central
bank with that of a commercial and development bank, and was the major source of
agricultural credit at the time of project startup. All financial transactions
in the agricultural sector were conducted through NBH, and it administered all
the state farms'  and production cooperatives'  deposits.   NBH had primary
responsibility for project implementation.  It was the borrower for the loan, and
on-lent loan and counterpart funds to enterprises or MEH (for institutional
development).   NBH staff were well-trained in the financial and economic
appraisal of investment projects and their performance under other Bank loans was
satisfactory. AGROBER and NBH local branches assisted enterprises in preparing
investment feasibility studies.  AGROBER staff contributed enormously to the
technical appraisal of investment projects.'
12.      On January 1, 1987 a two-tier banking system was introduced in Hungary.
This move separated the central banking functions of NBH from its commercial
banking functions. NBH's credit departments were organized along sectoral lines
and operated nationwide through 19 regional offices and 71 branch offices. Three
banks, Budapest Bank (BB), Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB), and National Commercial
and Credit Bank (OKHB) were formed out of the general credit sections of NBH.
In order to encourage competition it was proposed that the new banks would engage
in lending operations in all sectors and not merely confine themselves to the
sectors in which they have been exclusively involved to date.  The new banks
inherited their present respective clients, but enterprises could choose their
own banks as of July 1987.  The banks were free to set their own deposit and
lending rates within guidelines set by NBH. Until they were allowed in 1989 to
participate in retail banking activities and mobilize household deposits the
commercial banks only dealt with state enterprises, local councils, large
cooperatives and other entities in the socialist sector.   They are now also
servicing the small business and farm sectors.
13.      The legal documents for this and seven other existing loans were amended
on January 1, 1987 and subsidiary financing agreements were subsequently signed.
The amounts already disbursed from the bank loan (US$5 million) were assigned and
undisbursed amounts were made available to be on-lent by the participating
commercial banks. Subloan appraisals from that point on were carried out by the
" See borrower's comment in para. 44.



- 6 -
three participating commercial banks in conjunction with AGROBER.   Mezobank,
founded as the national banking institution of agricultural cooperatives, also
became a participating bank under this loan in 1990 when it became eligible under
the Integrated Agricultural Export Development (IAED) Project.
Physical AsRects of Project Implementation
14.      Procurement under the project was problematical.  An inordinate amount
of time was spent and many difficulties arose coming to agreement on procurement
issues with the primary procurement agency, AGROTEK. The design of the project
prescribed the formation of three large procurement packages for farm machinery.
In parallel, the Bank and the borrower started an effort in the fall of 1986 to
prepare four standardized bidding documents for use in all Bank-related
procurement actions. These documents have proved to be a very worthwhile effort
and are now saving much time in the procurement cycle. They were not, however,
ready to be used for most of the procurement actions under this project and
lengthy disagreements over standard commercial clauses delayed procurement
actions considerably. Contracts were finally signed for the first farm machinery
package in the spring of 1987. The second package was delayed for almost a year
and a cropping season was lost.  Even though by that time a standard bidding
document for the purchase of equipment was nearly finalized, AGROTEK submitted
a document that deviated substantially from the agreed standards. By the time
contracts were signed in the fall of 1989 over half the investors had dropped
out. After 1990 the project was disbursing in direct competition with the IAED
Project, which requires no procurement packaging and allows shopping for most
purchases. The commercial banks also had an extra incentive to disburse rapidly
under the IAED Project as the commitment charges are absorbed by them rather than
by NBH in the case of this project.2
15.      The implementation experience in respect of the main prolect components
is summarized below:
(a)   Farm Machinery.    This component, despite the above-mentioned
factors, was implemented successfully, albeit at a lower level
than envisaged--430 subloans were made to cooperatives, state
farms,  and  private  farmers.    This  compares  to  240  farm
participants estimated at appraisal; however many farms applied
for more than one subloan under the project, so it is assumed
that approximately the same area as estimated at appraisal has
been affected, but with less machinery purchased per farm. The
total number of machines purchased compared to appraisal
estimates are shown in Table 5, which indicates that about half
the number of estimated units were purchased. The Institute of
Agricultural Engineering (IAE) in G6d6ll8 assisted in the design
and implementation of the component, and was given the task of
monitoring its results (para. 20). Until 1989 the only source of
foreign exchange for modernizing Hungary's farm machinery fleet
was Bank loans, and the conditions were very favorable for
agricultural  enterprises.    One  contributing  factor  to  the
declining interest in the second and especially the third
machinery packages was the fact that from January 1989 investors
S see borrower's comment in para. 45.



could take advantage of more liberal foreign trade regulations,
and increasingly purchased equipment through direct purchase or
leasing, thus avoiding the relatively heavy-handed arrangements
under the Bank's procurement procedures. It seems that in many
cases the savings sought by ICB did not offset the administrative
burden of pursuing ICB procedures.
(b)   Land ImDrovement.  Investor interest waned in this component with
the application of stricter economic criteria under the project.
Perhaps partly because of this, the government decided to delay
the addition of any new areas under the National Land Improvement
Program in 1987 and thus, continued a trend throughout the
project period of declining government subsidies for land
improvement. Despite this, a package of modern land improvement
machinery was procured under the project.  Through 27 subloans
about 14,000 ha were improved under the project of which about
6,000 ha were drained of water by underground pipework, 6,500 ha
had surface water drainage, and land reclamation took place on
about 1,500 ha. This compares to appraisal estimates of about 63
participants, improving an area of about 380,000 ha.
(c)   Liguid Fertilizer.   The component was implemented on a much-
reduced scale. Early indications were that the liquid fertilizer
component was not progressing due to the logistical difficulties
of organizing large-scale plants and distribution systems. In
addition a local liquid fertilizer technology was preferred, and
33 of these plants were established separately in 1986-87. Two
plants were constructed under the project and one was modernized
(with a total capacity to cover 200,000 ha) compared to the ten
envisaged at appraisal (with a capacity to cover 350,000 ha).
Permission was given in 1988 to finance the working capital
(monoammonium phosphate) requirements of two of the plants.
(d)   Institution Building.   Substantial training of MEM staff took
place under the project, although the program was a little late
in starting.   Various overseas study tours and postgraduate
training took place as well as other training related to the
following investments:
(i)   Agricultural Biotechnology Center at GodOllo.  This state-
of-the-art center became operational during the second half
of 1990.   The center, supervised and funded by MEH is
comprised of four research institutes (Animal Sciences,
Biochemistry and Protein Research, Molecular Genetics, and
Plant Sciences). The center had a total investment cost of
about US$20 million, of which about US$4.5 million
(equipment) was financed by the Bank under both this and
the Integrated Livestock Project. Its unique energy saving
design has its greenhouses and animal labs situated on the
rooftop. It is one of the only facilities in Europe which
concentrates all of its high technology biological research
in one center.   The central budget allocations for the
center have been cut drastically in the last year, but the
center's dynamic general director is concentrating on a



- 8 -
more market-oriented approach to research, and is actively
seeking grant funding and shared research with foreign
partners. The facility is also allowing for more Hungarian
scientists to return from overseas to continue their
research and may prevent the brain drain phenomenon in this
field. The investment has been completed successfully and
the center is carrying out the activities envisaged in the
project design.
(ii)  Agricultural Research Institute of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences.  MartonvAsar.   The research conducted by the
Institute centers around wheat and maize, and ranges from
physiological through genetic and breeding studies.
Problems of crop and seed production are also investigated.
Financing under the project was provided (US$1.8 million)
for renewal of the Phytotron, and associated lab and
testing  equipment.    The  new  equipment  became  fully
operational by June 1990 at a cost of US$2.5 million.   The
Institute is financed by the Academy (1/3), other
government funds (1/3) and through revenues earned from
license fees from new varieties. The Phytotron facility is
suffering from results of the economic adjustment process
and the general recession. Energy costs, which constitute
the bulk of the running costs have been decontrolled and
have  increased  dramatically.    Other  institutes  which
contract to use the Phytotron are short of operating
budgets and have cut back on their research. The Institute
is confident however that the situation is a short-term one
and that it will weather the crisis.
(iii) Agro-Environment Protection and Plant Hygiene Department.
Equipment for soil and water testing for chemical residues
for the former Crop Protection and Soil Conservation
Service, valued at US$2.8 million, was financed under the
loan. The equipment was intended to modernize and expand
the capacity of the main laboratories which carried out
obligatory soil tests on farm soils. Recent changes have
reduced the frequency of obligatory soil analysis for
farms, and private facilities which previously served a
narrow clientele are now providing services to a variety of
farm organizations. The capacity for soil analysis now far
exceeds the demand in the country, and the service is now
planning to sell about half of the equipment procured under
the project. This move to rationalize the service and for
the private provision of testing services is a positive
one. The government testing laboratories are now scaling
down in size and number and are assuming a regulatory role,
reorienting their efforts on monitoring and environmental
protection.
(iv)  Establishment of Management Information System for Farms.
Consultants were engaged to develop a system to improve the
management and accounting systems of production units. The
pilot system was designed and implemented at the large Papa



state farm in northwest Hungary. The system proved to be
very successful, has been disseminated to other farms, and
as an indication of its success, the local co-designers
left the state farm and have now formed their own software
company.
(e)   Importation of Animal Feed.  Following severe drought conditions
in 1987-88, the Government of Hungary made a request in the fall
of 1990 to allow financing of the emergency importation of up to
US$60 million equivalent of animal feed under the four existing
World Bank agricultural credit lines to safeguard the national
livestock wealth. Coarse grain stocks had fallen dangerously low
from 1989 to 1990.   A decision was made to allow for the
financing of the importation of US$8.2 million of animal feed
(soybean meal pellets) from cost savings due to decreased demand
for machinery and equipment under this loan, which took place in
1991.
16.      Total Project Costs.  Project costs totalled US$211.9 million (Forints
10.4 billion) as compared to US$341 million (Forints 17 billion) estimated at
appraisal (Tables 6A and 6B).  Lower project costs are primarily due to the
reduced scope of the farm machinery, land improvement and liquid fertilizer
components.
17.      Policy Conditionalities.  Agreement was reached during negotiations to
complete a study which would pave the way for the comprehensive adjustment of
prices, taxes, and subsidies. This study was carried out and a letter was sent
in December 1988 outlining Government's intention to gradually reduce subsidies
in the sector, adjust producer prices considering world market prices, and
rationalize the agricultural tax system. These intentions have been carried out,
and the reduction in subsidies in the sector are spelled out in Table 9. The
major remaining subsidy mechanism for producers in the sector is the tax rebate
for exports, and to a lesser extent, interest rate subsidies on investment
projects.
18.      Agreement was reached to develop the national land improvement program
following economic efficiency criteria. Annual reports were presented to the
bank and the level of investment in this subsector shows a dramatic decrease over
the life of the project. Government subsidies for land improvement activities
have disappeared and the centrally planned national land improvement was severely
cut back in 1987. This condition was fully met.
19.      Agreement was also reached to maintain sugar production at the national
demand level and to reduce production areas if needed to respect balance.
Statistics show that the level of production actually rose by 14X during the
project period (1990 compared to 1985) and is now well above subsistence level.
Areas planted under sugar have also increased by 22% over the same period. 1991
preliminary figures indicate additional increases in production. A complete lack
of supervision and monitoring of this covenant is evident during the life of the
project from which the conclusion can be drawn that both the Bank and the
Borrower placed little importance in it. In fact, the covenant was based on the
questionable assumption that the efficiency of sugar production would be
increased to such an extent that areas could be reduced. Only a small investment



- 10 -
in sugar harvesting machinery was made under the project (US$5 million) which had
little effect over Hungary's overall sugar cultivation.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
20.      Farm Machinery.  The results of a five-year monitoring program carried
out by IAE of thirty farms shows that machinery purchased under the project has
proven to have higher output, lower energy consumption, smaller ldsses, better
quality of work, greater reliability, lower maintenance and repair expenditures,
and longer economic life than the machinery it replaced (largely procured from
former CMEA sources).   For example,  the savings in crop losses due to the
improved combine harvesters exceed US$10 million per year. Table 7B shows the
increased profitability of the sample farms. On average, only about ten percent
of the farm's total fleet were replaced. Due to the external factors noted in
para. 24 below, total planted areas fell by about 5% percent in the farms
covered in the project sample.   Yields of the four major crops remained
relatively constant. Appraisal estimates assumed a 20% increase in yields due
to improved machinery, a figure which the Hungarians believed to be much too high
an assumption. The main benefits were in reduce operational costs. Based on
these factors, the recalculated rate of return for this component is about 13%,
as compared to 25% (financial) and 38% (economic) estimated at appraisal. Due
to the relatively low distortions in the pricing, foreign exchange, and trading
regimes in Hungary, it is assumed that the recalculated financial and economic
rates of return are equivalent.
21.      Land Imvrovement. Due in part to the positive dialog between government
and the Bank which occurred from project conception through implementation, the
component was scaled down and sufficiently targeted to small, high-yielding
activities. Twenty-seven land improvement subloans were entered into of which
some were direct on-farm investments and some were on-farm plus equipment
purchase.   Sample data indicate a recalculated rate of return of about 27%
compared to appraisal estimates of 29% (financial) and 50% (economic).
22.      Liauid Fertilizer. Demand for project-financed liquid fertilizer plants
dropped substantially.   The component was designed to solve existing problems
due to the poor quality of granular fertilizer produced by the then-socialist
countries and the poor quality of existing spreaders that were unable to provide
even coverage.  Time and experience revealed that the substantial investment
costs involved, technical difficulties in management and operation, and high
operating costs has led to a situation in which existing plants are running at
low capacity, and the use of high-quality western granular fertilizers and
spreaders is increasing. Three plants received investment of which one has is
operating at 8% capacity for the 1992 season because of lack of demand. Sample
data indicate a financial rate of return of about six percent, assuming a
recovery in demand by 1993.  Due to the severe decrease in demand for liquid
fertilizer, this component should be considered as having a negative rate of
return compared to appraisal estimates of 28% (financial) and 21% (economic).
23.      Overall Project Rate of Return.    Estimates of the project rate of
return at appraisal were based on the assumption of (a) yield increases of 20%
due to improved machinery, (b) reductions in crop losses and operating costs for
the same reason, (c) increased area under grain production due to land
improvement and reductions in area under sugar beet, and (d) benefits from the



- 11 -
use of liquid fertilizers.   In actuality, on average only lOX of the total
machinery fleet was replaced on any given farm; also the expectation of 20% yield
increases on total cropped area due to this level of technical change is not
realistic, and no increase has been assumed in the recalculated analysis. The
expectation of a decreased area under sugar beet due to efficiency gains from new
equipment and agreed policy changes was overestimated at appraisal for the same
reason. The major impact from the improved farm machinery came from decreases
in operating costs. Land improvement investments, while yielding a high rate of
return, were much reduced in scope as compared to appraisal estimates. Liquid
fertilizer investments are considered to have a negative rate of return. Taking
a weighted average of the returns calculated on the three productive components,
the project would yield a recalculated project rate of return of about 13% as
compared to the appraisal estimate of 39X.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.      The project clearly fulfilled two of its main objectives, namely (a)
upgrading existing aging equipment with better and less energy consuming
equipment and (b) strengthening research and support services in the fields of
cereal breeding, soil testing, plant, and environment protection, improving
production efficiency.  These two improvements are major contributors to the
sustainable development of the field crop production.  Three major mitigating
factors have decreased the overall impact of the project: (a) A drop in total
cereal production during the life of the project as a result of the collapse of
the ex-CMEA market (including a 50% drop in grain exports from 1989 to 1990); (b)
continued liberalization of the economy has created a situation where the
internal terms of trade for agriculture progressively worsened over the life of
the project (Table 10), causing disincentives to farmers; and (c) a severe
drought in 1987-88 whose effects were felt for several years. In addition, the
current ownership transformation process could cause major short-term disruptions
in the sector.   Despite these negative factors,  crop production in Hungary
rebounded in 1991, exports to the convertible currency areas have been very
buoyant, more than offsetting losses to the CMEA market, and the overall
conditions for competitive production of field crops in Hungary continue to
exist.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.      The evolution  of the project  as described in the project  files
demonstrate the ability on the part of the Hungarian authorities and the Bank
staff members involved to adjust and redesign the project to the changing context
of Hungarian agriculture.   The adjustment of the land improvement component
through project preparation and appraisal is a case in point.
26.      Regular, adequate supervision of the project was carried out, usually
in conjunction with the Integrated Livestock Development Project (Table 3B)
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.      The project's credit component was efficiently managed by NBH and the
commercial banks. On-lending criteria were applied, and subproject appraisal was



- 12 -
carried out effectively with the technical input from AGROBER and IAE. AGROBER,
acting as project implementation unit, built up its analytical capacity under
this and other Bank agriculture projects and continues to operate effectively.
The evaluation work carried out by IAE makes a valuable contribution to the
continuing effort towards efficiency in Hungarian agriculture. MEM's Economic
Department produced studies and reports on the agricultural policy framework
which facilitated the continuing positive dialog between the government and the
Bank.
J. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
28.      The Loan Agreement in the case of this loan was quite adequate and
appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key organizational and
financial areas. The project appraisal report and implementation volume ensured
institutional memory as staff responsibilities changed. NBH and the commercial
banks produced adequate and thorough semi-annual reports on project on-lending.
MEM, AGROBER and IAE instituted an excellent project monitoring and evaluation
system which provided valuable data for the evaluation of the project.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments Received from the National Bank of Hungary
29.      The  Crop  Production  Improvement  Project  covered  high  priority
investments aimed at increasing efficiency in agriculture and improving export
.of agricultural commodities. The Project assisted the Hungarian Government in
Icarrying out its medium-term program of adjustment towards a more open market
1economy and to increase efficiencies in production. The study completed by the
Hungarian counterpart and the Government's action program prepared on the basis
of the study paved the way for the comprehensive adjustment of agricultural
policy. The Government's intentions to gradually reduce subsidies in the sector,
adjust producer prices considering world market prices and rationalize the
agricultural tax system have been carried out. Project objectives - to improve
production efficiency, through upgrading technology, modernization of fixed
assets, maintain and increase foreign exchange earnings in convertible currency
through the expansion of agricultural production, increase of exportable
commodities, coincided with goals of high priority of the then prevailing
development program. Therefore, not only did the Project provide the required
resources but turned out to be an excellent tool in supporting the implementation
of the Government's agricultural policy.
30.      Concerning the implementation experience of the different project
components the most successful one was the farm mechanization component. The
land improvement and the liquid fertilizer components were implemented on a much-
reduced scale.   Different sections of the Report provide correct,  in-depth
analysis of reasons for lower than envisaged implementation performance.
31.      Concerning indirect benefits on the Project we would like to point out
that during the implementation phase Project beneficiaries could get acquainted
with new approaches and methods as to project preparation and realization. These
techniques and procedures related to development activities are used by most of
the enterprises ever since regardless of the source of financing. The project
offered an excellent opportunity for the proliferation of appraisal methods not
widely used previously while making investment and financing decisions.
32.      During the implementation of the Project major changes occurred in the
Hungarian financial sector, a two-tier banking system came to existence. The new
commercial banks took over the ongoing projects previously appraised by NBH and
many subloans were concluded after the establishment of these banks.   A
significant number of NBH loan officers were employed by the newly established
financial institutions. These colleagues had received training so they assured
continuity and consistency as far as appraisal procedures were concerned.
33.      The relationship between the Bank and the Hungarian counterpart was good
throughout the preparation and implementation of the Project, Hungarian
institutions, received a lot of assistance from the Bank staff. Nevertheless,
in certain instances greater flexibility, especially in the procurement process
could have accelerated the implementation of the relevant subprojects (see NBH's
comments on procurement issues sent to the Bank separately). In certain cases
however, the Bank demonstrated great flexibility in order to help the Hungarian



- 14 -
counterpart.   The speedy and efficient assistance the Bank provided to the
Hungarian Government in 1990 allowing the financing of importation of animal feed
in order to eliminate the consequences of the severe drought under the four
existing Bank agricultural credit lines was a case in point.
34.      To sum it up the project clearly fulfilled two of its main objectives,
upgrading existing aging equipment with better and less energy consuming
equipment and improving production efficiency. These two improvements were major
contributors to the sustainable development of the field crop production.
Comments Received From the Ministry of Agriculture
Evaluation of Proiect implementation. information about the performance of
guarantor responsibilities of the Ministry
35.      We are making the following comments on behalf of MoA (previously: MOAF)
- as the guarantor of the World Bank financed Crop Production Improvement Project
- to Sections I and III of the Completion Report sent by the Bank, using the
sequence of the usual format developed for this purpose:
Confirming the validity and correctness of figures included in Section III of the
ComDletion Report
36.      MoA (previously: MOAF) gives its position concerning Tables No. 4,5,6
and 7, or provides a background to these. The other tables either do not require
a MoA evaluation (1,2,3 and 8) or they were previously submitted to the World
Bank by MoA (9,10).
Table 4
37.      In 1986 the farms were essentially interested in the field crop
mechanization sub-project (1/a). The loan disbursement included in Table No. 4
is a good indication of the demand for the sub-project well exceeding the
original proposal:  the amount of loan drawn down between September 1987 and
March 1989 at certain points of time surpassed the planned level by more than
100l.
38.      According to the loan applications received the import costs of field
machinery applied for exceeded not only the time-proportionate costs of the
program but even the entire credit-line, therefore the scope of machinery to be
purchased from loan proceeds was narrowed down partly to reduce thereby the
import costs of procurement to approach the planned level, and partly to save a
credit-line for the other sub-projects.
39.      In consequence of these actions the import portion of loan applications
accepted for this sub-project dropped considerably, but unfortunately the changes
occurring in the agricultural sector and the absence of interest toward the other
sub-projects prevented the drawing of the credit-line according to the proposed
schedule.



- 15 -
Tables 5 and 6
40.      Figures of Table No. 5 confirm, that under the field mechanization
sub-project we procured less machinery than planned at a cost higher than
planned. One reason for this was the shortage of local loan resources and their
unfavourable terms and conditions, which acted as an incentive to the
beneficiaries of the loan that instead of procuring local or social import
machinery they should prefer the relatively more expensive western imports. This
trend was further strengthened by the fact, that in respect of tractors and
harvesting equipment required the local and socialist market could not produce
a competitive offer as far as the technical standard is concerned. The shortage
of local loan funds and their unfavourable terms and conditions are indicated by
Table No. 6 also, where we can see, that actual use did not even reach 50Z of the
planned level.
Table Z
41.'     When evaluating the figures concerning the scope of the Project it
should be taken into account, that the findings concerning unit yields and
incremental product volumes are based on the figures of a study period which
stretches  into the transformation of agriculture.   During this period of
transition the production objectives of the loan beneficiaries have changed and
increasing the production volumes in the grain sector - on which the Project was
based - was less and less a target to be followed.
42.      In addition the profitability of several crops included in the Project
showed unfavourable trends during the years following the start of the Project.
This is well indicated by the findings of the micro-economic studies of model
farms, namely that the profitability of wheat dropped from 25X in 1985 to 10 in
1987, while profitabilities of maize, sunflower and sugarbeet dropped from 17.4,
32.2 and 27.4 in 1985 to 12.7, 26.3 and 6X in 1988, respectively. This decline,
however, was true only about a transitory period and the profitability of these
crops in 1990 was similar to that in 1985.  Rates of return calculated with
figures taken from the transitory period are obviously lower than the planned,
as it also appears from Table No. 7/b.
SunRlement to the analysis in Section I of the ComRletion Report
Para 10
43.      In accordance with the contents of the legal documents of the Project
(Guarantee Agreement section 4.01) MOAF provided free of charge all technical
assistance for the Borrower, which aimed to facilitate the proper planning and
implementation of the Investment Projects. For the practical performing of this
technical assistance MOAF financed subcontract agreements with AGROBER and the
MOAF Technical Institution, which organizations provided practical support to NBH
and the commercial banks when they formed the technical criteria of sub-loan
applications, in the evaluation of applications on the basis of such criteria and
in the preparation of various periodical reports under the Project.



- 16 -
Para. 11
44.      The last two sentences of the paragraph give excess emphasis to the role
of AGROBER. Reality would be better reflected if here the joint contribution of
the MOAF experts and of the two institutions was mentioned instead.
Para. 14
45.      This paragraph contains a lot of partial truth, but its final conclusion
is considerably different from our view on this issue.  The uniformization of
procurement documents was actually taking place simultaneously with the
preparation of concrete procurement documents, therefore instead of the earlier
developed and mutually accepted solutions a continuous adaptation to as, yet not
accepted solutions should have occurred. This gave indeed a lot of reason for
disputes and a long time was needed before a mutually acceptable position could
be formed.   Dispute was most frequently caused by procurements under the
mechanization sub-project, as neither the Bank nor the Borrower supported the
expansion of this sub-project against the others, or its drawing faster than the
planned schedule, as the difference to the contracts was indeed considerable.
The differing interests of the parties concerned slowed down the finalization of
procurement documents during this period, but even so the mechanization
sub-project grew bigger than planned.  The majority of demand was lost by the
Project not during this period, but when due to excess demand the scope of
machinery to be purchased from loan proceeds was narrowed down.
The Bank's role in the developing and imRLementation of the Project. with special
regard to experiences useful for the future
46.      Beside the intense support from the Bank the project was prepared sooner
than planned by NBH and MOAF. The standard of the preparatory work was raised
in addition to the support from the Bank experts also by the training program
organized by EDI.   Loan appraisal took place earlier than envisaged.   The
agreements concluded during the loan negotiations were practically met in the
vast majority of cases, which shows that the targets were set properly. During
the Project implementation the Bank experts were extremely flexible and fast in
providing the support required by the Borrower - except the issues related to
bigger packages of procurement - in spite of the fact, that the experts involved
in Supervision were changed several times.
47.      The leadership of MOAF and MoA highly appreciate the Bank support given
to the agricultural sector, this is why they undertook a bigger than necessary
role in Project preparation, implementation and evaluation. It can be seen in
the course of this Project and also in following projects, that the Bank requires
the active participation of the sector in the project preparation, in the support
to the work of missions supervising implementation and in the evaluation of
projects. Although the conditions needed for the monitoring of project implemen-
tation are set out in documents related to the project, the Ministry frequently
does not receive information available only from the financing institutions,
which makes the work of MoA in this field more difficult.



- 17 -
The role of MOAF (later MoA) in the develoDing and imDlementation of the project.
with special regard to experiences useful for the future
48.      MoA (MOAF) with the assistance of the experts of the Borrower NBH and
of the Bank prepared the documents required for the approval and financing of the
Project by the Bank in the required quality and before deadline. The covenants
under the Guarantee Agreement were met during Project implementation to the
extent expectable. MoA concluded contracts with the appropriate organizations,
which made it possible for NBH and the on-lending commercial banks to receive the
technical support needed for the project implementation free of charge. In this
respect the Ministry gave help to develop the technical criteria for loan
applications, to the evaluation of loan applications on the basis of technical
criteria, to the monitoring of Project implementation, to the preparing of
technical specifications of procurement documents, and to the preparation of
project evaluation reports.  The costs of this support reached 2 million HUF
annually.
49.      MoAF did not establish a project unit to perform the tasks related to
the project, instead that department of the Ministry was assigned with
controlling the tasks, which was competent in the scope of the Project. This
department of the ministry planned the actual tasks, concluded the subcontracts
for performing tasks with those who were the most suitable to perform such tasks.
This solution formed for the purpose of organizing and implementing the
Ministry's tasks in connection with the Project proved to be significantly less
expensive than the Project Unit.
The efficiency of the relationshiR between the Bank and MOAF (MoA) during the
develoRinz and imDlementation of the Proiect
50.      The institutional and personal relationship between MOAF and the Bank
were at all times characterized by flexibility and efficiency both during project
processing and during project supervision.






- 19 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan nltle                   Purpose          Approval       Status            Comments
Grain Storage and Mechanization  Increase grain           FY83     Closed           Immediate precursor
Project (Ln. 2316-HU)          production and decrease                             to this loan
harvest losses
Integrated Livestock Project (LI.  Improving effeciency in  FY85   Closed           Implemented in
2510-HU)                       meat industry and                                    parallel to this loan
promoting meat exports
Agroprocessing Modernization   Increase exports of        FY88    Under
Project (Ln. 2936-HU)          agroprocessed products              implementation.
to convertable currency
areas
Integrated Agric. Export       Provide add'l financial    FY90    Under             Design of loan took
Development Project (Li. 3229-   resources to small-scale,         implementation.  into account chaning
HU)                            private and larger                                   market and banking
farmers.                                            conditions, competed
with this loan during
last 18 months of
implementation.
Product Market Development     Strengthen operational     FY93    Project           Project addresses
Project                        and pricing efficiency of           declared         constraints in
product markets.                   effective 11/92.  marketing, trade, and
distribution systems.



- 20 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Stage                     Planned                Revised         Actual
Identification .......... July 1983     .       . ............ July 1983
Preparation ........... Dec. 1984 - July 1985 .    ............ Dec. 1984 - April 1985
Appraisal Mission .March 1986 ........ .           ........... May 1985
Loan Negotiations     .        ............... Dec. 1985 .... Jan. 1986
Board Approval       ................. Feb. 1986 .... July 1986
Loan Signature              ..... ............ July 1986
Loan Effectiveness            .        .       .. ............ Aug. 1986
Loan Closing       .................. Dec. 1990 .... Dec. 1991
Loan Completion   ....... .................. June 1991 .... March 1992
3. Use of Bank Resources
Table 3A. Staff Inguts
Stage of Project Cycle                Planned L     Final  Comments
Through Appraisal Mission                            51.4  Prep. carried out by Min. Ag.
Appraisal through Board Approval                     61.8  Elapsed time of 15 months
Board Approval through Effectiveness                   -  One month between Board
and Effectiveness
Supervision                                          913  Avg. 16.6 SW per year
TOTAL                   204.5
n/ Not available.



- 21 -
Table 3B. Missions
Number   Days
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year       of        in    Specialization     Performance       Types of
Persons   Field   Represented       Rating Status '  Problems S
Through Appraisal
Identification              July 1983        3         11    E,F,D
Preparation                 Nov. 1983        3         10    E,F,M
Preparation                 Oct. 1984        2         5      N,F
Preparation                 Dec. 1984        3         4      N,F,A
Preparation                 March 1985       2         5     NA
Appraisal                   May-June         6         17    N,E,FAM,R
1985
Appraisal through Board Approval
May 1986         1         3     N
June 1986        1         4     E
Supervision
Sept 1986        1        6      N                      2               1
June 1987        1        4      N                      1
Nov. 1987        2        8      E,A                     1
June 1988        1        7      E                       1
Feb. 1989        1        3      E                       1
Oct. 1989        3        11    E,F,A                   1               5
June 1990        2        6      E,F                     1             5,7
Nov. 1990        1        6      E                       1             5,7
June 1991        1        3      E                       1             5,7
Nov. 1991        1        3      E                       1             5,7
a/ E 5 Economist, N   Engineer, F = Fmancial Analyst, A - Agriculturalist, D = Drainage Specialist,
M - Farm Machinery Specialist, R - Fertilizer Specialist
b/ 1 = Minor or No Problems, 2 - Moderate Problems, 3 = Major Problems
c/ 1 = Project Development Objectives, 2 = Compliance with Covenants, 3 = Project Management,
4 = Availability of Funds, 5 = Procurement, 6 - Training, 7 - Technical Assistance, 8 = Studies,
9 = Eavironmental Aspects, 10 = Fmancial Performance



- 22 -
Table 4. Loan Disbursements
USD MiLins
Affratsal Eadbmat           Actua Dnhbur.eem
Pr."mp of
Quarter        During      C.ubtiY        Daring          Cumnat         AP*ifiEdinss
Quarter                    Quarter
Sep. 1966              0.00           0.00            0.00       a/ 6.00                     0
Dec 1966               5.00           5.00            4.04           10.13                 203
Mar. 1987              4.00           9.00            0.99           lL12                  124
Jun. 1967              4.00           13.00           2.32           13.44                 103
Sep. 1967              4.50           17.50          25.98          39A2                   225
Dec. 1967              4.50          22.00           14.93          54.35                  247
Mar. 1988              750           29.50            2.02          56.37                  191
Jun. 1988              7.50           37.00           0.00           56.37                 152
Sep. 1968              850           45.50            1.67          58.04                  128
Dec. 1968              8.50          S4.00            3.11          61.15                  113
mar. 1989              8.00          62.00            1.61          62.76                  101
Jun.1989               8.00           70.00           0.72           63.48                  90
Sep. 1989              7.50          77.50            0.60          64.08                   83
Dec. 1989              7.50           85.00           3.06          67.14                   78
mar. 1990              5.00          90.00            3.44          7058                    78
Jun. 1990              5.00          95.00           11.21           81.79                  83
mYl1
Sep. 1990              2.50          97.50            5.26          87.05                   89
Dcc. 1990              2.50         100.00            0.95          88.00                   88
hMr. 1991                                         b/ 0.87           88.87                   89
JunL 1991                                         b/ 0.29           89.16                   89
FW2
Sep.1991                                          b/ 0.61           89.77                   90
Dec. 1991                                         b/ 0.13           99.90                  100
mar. 1992                                         b/ 0.08        c/ 99.99                  100
a/ Initia deposit to specidal acount
b/ Actual didureents higher, but as recovely of $6 milUon special account commenced, disbursement figure are reduced.
c/ $85,461 reoovered by the World Bank due to exchange rate fluctuations for transactions made under Speidal Axount



_ ?3 _
Table 5. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
Item                                  Appraisal Estimate          Actual
Farm Machinery Equipment
Tractors                                     435                 388
Tillagp Equipment                            350                  79
Seeders                                      275                 109
Harvesters                                   848                 475
Dryers                                         9                  18
Sprayers                                     170                  23
Construction Equipment
Tractors                                       3                   8
Drainage Equipment                             8                   2
Excavators                                     6                  12
Trailers                                       4                   4
Uquid Fertilizer
Plants                                        10                   1
Monoammonium Phosphate                59,000 tons          12,500 tons
Animal Feed (Soyabean Pellets)                    -40,900 tons



- 24 -
6. Proiect Costs and Financinf
Table 6A. Prolect Costs In US Dollar Millions
Appraisal Estimate          |Actual Y
Local Costs      Foreign        Total       Locally     Financed From     Total
Exchange Costs               Fmanced        WB Loan
Farm Machinery        141.0            111.4       252.4          89.4            783          167.7
Land Improvement       41.2             11.0        52.2          153              2.1          17.4
Liquid Fertilizer       7.6             16.9        24.5           2.2             3.6           5.8
Working Capital
for Animal Feed         -                 -           -            4.2             8.2          12.4
Institutional
Development             3.2              8.5        11.7           0.8             7.8           8.6
TOTAL       193.0             147.8       340.8         111.9          100.0         211.9
Table 6B. Project Costs in Hungr1an Forint Millions
Appraisa Estimate           |ActualIV
Loca Costs      Forcip         Total       IA)cally     Fumnced from      Total
Exchange Costs               Fmanced        WB Loan
Farm Machinery          7,051.0      5,569.4      12,620.4    4,098.9          3,767.0       7,865.9
Land Improvement       2,047.0        564.9        2,611.9      648.0            126.0         774.0
Liquid Fertilizer        392.4        829.9        1,222.3      109.0            188.0         297.0
Worling Capital
for Animal Feed              -          -               -       311.0            613.0         624.0
Institutional
Development              160.2        426.6          586.8       48.1            469.1         517.2
TOTAL         9,650.6      7,390.8       17,041.4    5,215.0          5,163.1      10,378.1
a/ Breakdown of costs by forcign or domestic source not available.



- 25 -
Table 6C. ?rolect Financina
USD Millions
IBRD Expenditure Categories          Planned                    Final
Crop Production
Farm Equipment                        69.0                      78.0
Land Improvement                      3.0                        2.1
MIS                                    .1                        .2
Cons. & Trng                           .3                        .1
lAquId Fertilizer
Midng Plants                           23                         .3
Monoammonium Phosphate                13.0                       3.2
Working Capital Inputs                   -                         8.2
Institutional Development
Equipment                             7.0                        7.2
Cons. & Trng                           .6                        .6
Unallocated                              4.7                    a/ .1
TOTAL IBRD                     100.0                     100.0
Domestic Sources                       240.8                     111.9
GRAND TOTAL                    340.8                     211.9
a/ Currency Exchange Rate fluctuations for transactions made under the special account.



- 26 -
7. Prolect Results
Table 7A. Dlmt Beneflts
Appraisal Estdmate at Full                Actual
Development
Area Affected
Improved Machinery on Cereal Farms            350,000 ha (120 farms)      Total Cropped Area on Affected
Farms and number of farms
approximately the same. (no
Improved Machinery on Mixed Farms             470,000 ha (120 farms)      breakdown by cereal or mixed farms
available).
Land Improvement and Improved Machinery        380,000 ha (63 farms)      14,000 ha (27 farms)
Liquid Fertilizer Capacity Coverage            350,000 ha (80 farms)      200,000 ha a/
Yield Improvements
Improved Machinery                           20% improvement in yiclds    Probably no (or only minor)
improvement in yields
Land Improvement and Improved Machinery     20% improvement in yields    20% improvement in wheat yields
only, no change in other crops
Liquid Fertilizer Benefits                  6-10% improvement in yields   amounts of fertilizer distributed
negligible
Total Production
Wheat                                       510,000 tons (27% increase)
Increases in total production as a
Maize                                       437,000 tons (20% increase)    result of the project negligible.
Maize Silage                                848,000 tons (22% increase)    Bencfits from project originating
from efficiency increases, decreased
Sunflower                                    78,000 tons (26% increase)    operating costs, and resulting
Barley                                       41,000 tons (16% increase)   increased net revenues. (see
Alfalfa                                     127,000 tons (17% increase)
a/ Actual capacity, current level of capacity utilization much lower.



- 27 -
Table 7B. PIroIect ImRcnt
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Rates of Return
Farm Machinery
Fimancial                     25%
Economic                      37%                       13%
Land Improvement
Financial                     29%
Economic                      50%                       27%
Liquid Fertilizer
Financial                     28%
Economic                      21%                      negative
Overall Project Rate of Return         39%                       13.5%
Without Project             With Project
Increased Profitability from Imoroved Machiner a/
Wheat                                17%                       29%
Corn                                 17%                       25%
Sunflower                           38%                        32%
Sugar Beet                          21%                        23%
a/ Profits divided by production value.



- 28 -
8. Status of Covenants
Page 1 of 2
Or4n     Revied
Aganeat        Section    Status    Date      Date              Description of Covenant                 Commes
Loam            3.01(b)     OK                          Bonrwer to make available to Guaantor the
proceeds of the boa needed to exeue Part B
of th projet
3M04(a)     OK                         Make mbloas to beneficaries fbr investmie   Bomrw   requested a
projwb e nder Part A of the projet on      chae  of thw crret
prncipbs mt forth in Schedule  Of the Lan   rati hm t ho thaun
Agree4 nt, which on crop prodution         21 to  et lm tian
improvement KFP constrution and            L3:L Justification is
equipment Include 20% equity contribution,    prvie in Anne 1 to
debt service ratio of not ls tha Ls:1     the Aide Mesoire of
cumnt ratio of not Is than 2:, FiR and     October 13,1989. Tbis
ERR of at lat 14%, maurity of up to 10     reqest was granted.
years, including 2 yeo  of pae
3.04(b)     OK                         Borrower to make subloans for land
inproveenwts only to benefkias with good
standards of far mechanizationL
3114(b)     OK                         Borrower to servbie and monitor the
exection by benetficirks of investmnt
projets.
4"1()       OK                         Bonrwer to maintain adequate records and
accounts.
4J1(b)      OK      04/91    0I/91   Borrower to have accounts audited and
urnis Infonnation to Bank.
U1(c)       OK                         Borrower to bave acounts referring to
Statement of Expenditures recorded and
andlted separately.
4.02       OK                         Borrower to open and maintain separate
repayment accounts of sbbaLs
Garnt           3A2(a)      OK                          Guarantor to employ consultants for reserh
activitieL
OK;     Covenant compid with
SOON:  Complian expected In reasnable short thus
NYDT    Not yet de
ACh    Neods ue of forml remedies to bring about compliase
IVS:    Need to be rvisd



- 29 -
8. Status of Covenants
Page 2 of 2
Origna  Revised
Agreement     Section    Status   Date    Date             Description of Covenant               Commnts
30               06/92           NBH to prepare a project completion reporL   Repoit preparation in
progresa
Guaantee        3.02(b)     OK                     Guarantor to select candidates for traini
abroad and dissnate the required knowledge
In the country.
4.02(a)    OK                     Guarantor to denlop its nathni  land
Improvement program folowing criteri
satisfactory to the Banl.
4.02(b)    OK                     Guaantor to maintain sugar production fo
sugar beet  national demand  vel ad reduce
production are  I needed to respect baanc
4.02(c)    OK                     Guaantor to review its policy of sgr bet
production before decison on investments to
expand processing
4.03(a) (b)         12/87    6/88   Guarantor to carry out a study of prices, terms
and subsidis and exchange vies with the
Bank.
4.03(c)    OK    12/88            Guarantor to develop and cay out a program
based on the recomuendatlons of this study.
Side Letter 3               OK     9/90    11/91  Berrwer to monitor and report in the agmed
format and content defined in SIJ and issue
seml.anual report by each September 30 and
annual report by each March 31.
OK      Covenant complid with
SOON:  Compe ance epected in reannabk short time
NYD     Not yet due
ACIf    Needs u" of formal remedies to bring about compliance
RVS     Need. to be revised



- 30 -
Table 9. Subsidy Reduction
1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992
plastic Coverinas           0.040   0.000  0.000
(Grecnhouses)
Production Subsidies       15.120  14.910  10.480   4.33S  4.000
;griculture
Milk                       5.700   5.940   1.900         -
Beef Calves                0.450   0.410  O.400   0.270
Cattle                     1.600   1.590  0.000       -
Sheep-Goats                0.200.  0.00   0.200   0.138    -       -
Red Berries                0.150   0.000   0.000         -      -
Corn                       0.150   0.000  0.000       .            _
Wool                       0.900   0.500   0.630      -      -     _
Vegetables                 0.170   0.000  0.000       .
Low Quallty Land           5.100   5.300   6.700   3.735  4.000
Soil Improvement           0.400   0.440   0.450   0.192
Irrigation Water           0.100   0.100   0.100
Soybean                    0.200   0.430   0.100                   -
Tax rebate (export)        20.000  18.900  18.S00  23.300 27.500 26.000
Intervention Fund          13.000  11.900  11.000      -   4.000  4.000
AsrolrocBssing Subsidies    2.940   0.920   0.365   0.2055-
Baking Industry            0.390   0.000   0.000
Milk Powder Feed           0.090   0.000   0.000
Broad Price Margin         0.140   0.000   0.000
Flour Price Supplement     0.170   0.000  0.000
Distilling Industry        0.280   0.220   0.200   0.205
Meat Industry              0.650   0.350  0.165
Alcohol Industry           0.020   0.000  0.000
Grain Trust Subsidy        0.720   0.350   0.000
vegetable Oil Industry    0.480   0.000  0.000
interest Rate Subsidy       0.000   0.000   2.100   2.383
inputs Subsidy              5.600   4.290   7.000   1.101
Fertilizer                 4.800   3.690   4.000   1.101
Protein Feeds              0.800   0.600   3.00       -
56.700  50.920  49.445  31.324 3S.500 30.000
Others                      2.100   1.600   2.000   5.014  4.000  4.100
Contribution to investment  1.400   1.000   1.200      820     -    -
funds-Capital allocation
for iondebted agricult.
cooperative farms; hterest  0.000   0.000  0.000
rate subsidy on investment
projects                    0.700   0.600   0.800   1.273  1.300  1.300
Investment                  6.540   6.600   6.000   3.967  3.000  1.500
TOTAL               65.340  59.120  57.445  40.305 42.500 35.600
GDP                                         2080,9 2486,0 303S,0
Share of GDP                          %       1,94   1,71   1,17
Source: Mnistry of Agriculture, Economics Department
March 6, 1992



- 31 -
Table 10. Intemnal Terms of Trade for Asriculture
Year     Agr.prod.        Input        Internal       Agr.prod.        Input         rnternal
price           price        terms of       price            price         terms of
index           index       trade           index            index         trade
1980 * 100,0                   Previous year - 100,0
1981        107,0         107,4         100,4          107,0            107,4          100,4
1982        106,7         111,9          104,9          99,7            104,2          104,5
1983        110,9         118,1          106,5         104,0            105,6          101,5
1984        117,7         127,5          108,3         106,1            107,9          101,7
1985        120,4         132,0         109,6          102,4            103,6          101,2
1986        124,9         134,7         107,5          103,7            102,0           98,4
1987        131,0         139,1         106,2          104,9            103,1           98,3
1988        135,8         149,8          110,3         103,6            107,7          104,0
1989        161,7         176,6         109,1          119,1            117,8           98,9
1990        207,8         257,0         123,7          128,5            145,5          113,3
Source: Hungarian Statistical Yearbook 1990 (Page 135.)



